ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, this is the first session, I think, after seven years, that MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have the opportunity to ask questions to the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We expected, frankly, that the government would give adequate information to all citizens and MPs that Parliament is an institution in charge of the control of the executive authority. Respecting all present ministers, the Prime Minister should lead. I would not like to make any comparison between the ministries, but you will also have the opportunity at today's session to, on the basis of the number of questions asked to certain ministers, conclude that their presence is necessary and, in particular, the presence of the Prime Minister. I assume that every citizen in Serbia is concerned about the situation in which our country is located, that he is interested in everything that is happening to Kosovo and Metohija, about the negotiations that our team is conducting, and that probably one larger number of questions will be addressed right from that area. But unfortunately, this is neither the Prime Minister nor the ministers who would be able to give an answer, because under article 200, the minister is required to respond immediately, unless he is able to immediately, because of the gravity of the issue, he can do it in writing. I hope that after this session, the situation will be very different and that the government of the Republic of Serbia will show little more respect for the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11398	MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11399	Dear MPs, respected ministers, I will try in three minutes to define three issues that are important for the realisation and implementation of the process of Roma and Decada Roma integration at this time. One question I ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia currently planning to form an inter-minister body to improve the position of Roma? Because it is impossible to carry out rationally the process of improving the Roma and implementing Decada in different ministries without proper coordination. X examples exist, both in the past government and in the present, that we are trying in different ways from different ministries to improve the position of this national community, however unsuccessfully. Typical examples are Roma settlements where different ministries carry out different activities, which are not coordinated enough. There is not enough agreement in the government over certain things, and in a certain way it feels different access to different ministries to this issue. That's one question. The second question is for Mr. Culture Minister. We've been trying for six or seven months at his place to present an idea, but we don't get an answer from him at all - I'm talking to the Roma Party - to sit down with us to talk about it. The question is: Will there be conditions in 2008 to finance a professional theatre and stage troupe that will work to improve the culture of Roma, in authentic Roma language, and to contribute to the creation of a multicultural Serbia? The next question is for the finance minister: What caused the 2008 budget to lose the funds that were in the 2007 budget? It refers to those twelve million dinars. We have now formed a working group, we have proposed this, the Human and Minority Rights Service has done so and, just when this group is to begin to provide organised support to different ministries and possibly to this interminist group, which should define the process of improving the position of Roma, now suddenly there is no such funds. My question is: have these funds been left out because there is no money in the budget or because the Human and Minority Rights Service did not seek funds again in the new budget? We simply want to know who's responsible for the fact that we're going to be in this situation in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11400	I would just like to read Article 200 so that the ministers would be familiar with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "The Government, or the Minister, must reply immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. The written reply of the Government, or the Minister of State, shall be delivered to the MPs. Exceptionally, if certain facts, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, are needed in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days." Do the ministers to whom the parliamentary question has been asked want to respond orally? The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11401	Dear Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament, I feel a great honor that today, after so many years, we have the opportunity to re-establish a very important institute of parliamentary life and democracy that expresses, I think, most visible to our citizens, the control function of Parliament. By answering your questions today, we will try to show what has been done, but, of course, we will use your questions and improve the work of our branch of power. As for the government, I'm not gonna use this to tell you what was done in the first six months. I think we'll be able to answer all kinds of questions. On the first note, I must say that during the cabinet session yesterday, we discussed this issue. All members of the government were invited to this session and only those who had urgent obligations did not come. As you know, the Prime Minister was prevented today. The foreign minister is in Moscow, the defence minister, and the KIM minister is not in Belgrade. As for the issues of Kosovo and Metohija, which Mr. Todorovic has asked, we will try to answer because it is a matter of state policy. On the issue of the previous speaker, the co-ordination body was established several years ago when it came to implementing the programme under the Decada Roma. If you think this coordination mechanism isn't effective enough, let's improve it. We'll ask you a question in eight days, in accordance with Article 200. The Rules of Procedure of this House, we will also answer the question of what the Minority Rights Service has done to this matter. And what I can say is that if we look at specific cases of the migration of certain settlements of Roma, if we look at the issue of that settlement around Gazela, you see for yourself that this approach is extremely humane, in a way that is democratic. It's one big project, and that's where we have to come in. The city of Belgrade has set a budget for this year and for the following year and for the appropriate funds for the needs of our fellow citizens who cannot stay where a major construction site will be in a few months. I also want to say that in the last six months, our government has strengthened ties with the Bank of the Council of Europe, which was formed after the Second World War to deal with refugee issues and minority problems. We have many possibilities in that. I would like to say that two weeks ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a framework for the signing of a loan of 10m euros under extremely favourable conditions, where 400 housing units are scheduled for refugees, as well as an additional 100 housing units for citizens of particularly sensitive layers. So it can be used for that reason. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11402	Thank you. Here you go. Just to get an answer from the culture minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel very honored to be the first time I've ever followed this pay phone in front of you. Mr. Srdjan Shain will be sent an answer at a certain appointed time. I just want to let you know that one of the priorities of the Ministry of Culture is to cultivate a culture of national minorities and general multiculturalism with us. We cannot be part of Europe and the world unless we realize that for us, the most significant equality and multicultural policy that is just being recognised is that no one in this country is neglected. The other day we had a meeting with 14 national councils in Serbia. Mr. Esad Juddjevic, as president, has suggested something that further promotes what you, Mr. Srdjane Shane, have suggested. So he suggested something very mature for this country and for this situation, which is that there is a center for Roma culture, a cultural centre. We are proud to have already one theatre of Roma, which we will cultivate as we cultivate all theatres in this country, whether under local self-government or under the control of the state. I want to say that these issues are unusually important, not only for national minorities in Serbia, but it is also important how we refer to our minorities, our diaspora in the region. And on that point, the Ministry of Culture is very active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11404	Thank you. As for Minister Cvetkovic's response, you want to respond orally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11405	With regard to the issue of funds planned in section 3.8 of the Human and Minority Rights Service, I would like to say that, despite the desire to find savings in various items within the budget, this position relating to minority rights has been designed in a way that it receives far more funds than it was in the previous year. For the sake of illustrations, this year we envisioned an amount of 150,000 dinars under donations, and these are the funds intended to finance national councils, as well as the amount of 5,338,000 dinars intended to chair the Decade of Roma. Overall, this appraisal has about 253,000,000 dinars, a significant increase compared to the previous year. I don't quite understand what twelve million people are thinking here, whether this is about advice, but I want to tell you that the views on the requirements and the appropriations are in line, so we think that a good basis has been offered to encourage national minorities. If more detailed information is needed, I could only do so through my services because it is one detail that has not even entered these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11406	Thank you. Srjan Shane, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11407	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, there is no co-ordination body in the government of the Republic of Serbia that deals with the Roma integration process, as you, Vice President, have said. There's only the Service of Human and Minority Rights. In the stenograms, you can check it out like you said. The Service for Human and Minority Rights is a service that does administrative and technical and professional jobs for different ministries. So, the Human and Minority Rights Service cannot deal with defining politics, which the government can, by its definition, do. An interminist body, i.e. advice, can help the government define their policy. So we're talking about exactly what you were talking about. That not one government official, who is the most common employee employed under the UNDP project, can, and this is about a man who heads the service, Mr. Ljuan Koka, coming to different ministries, holding different ministers a lesson and representing his opinion as a legitimate opinion both of Roma and Government. So I insist that an interminist, or one body, be formed to help the government define a policy in that direction, and thus we will say that the process of improving the Roma is indeed an important political issue. I don't mind that Ljuan Cocae was in the ranks of the SPS before, because we have good co-operation with their MPs. I don't mind the gentleman being in Rambouille. However, you, DS ministers, too, must take responsibility, clearly say that you have allowed your government to question the process of implementing Roma integration to be led by such and such people. We must tell that truth to the citizens of Serbia. I personally don't mind, but you have to make it clear whether or not you're up for it. Next, as regards the creation of a theatre-stage troupe, it is true that there is a theatre in Vojvodina in Roma language, it is true that Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Cyrilov work there. However, it is also true that there are no systematic funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that it is not defined as a permanent institution, that it is only a project of NGOs year by year. And it's true that that way we can't talk about one systematic improvement in minority culture and that, at least that's how I understand it, we really have to create professional institutions, with the Council and define this into an institutional framework, and the best example for that is in Vojvodina. Why does it matter? In Vojvodina there is a Council for Roma Integration at the Executive Council, there is an Office for Inclusion as an administrative and professional body to support the process and, therefore, we have succeeded in Vojvodina to provide a million euros from European funds for scholarships from high school students. As a result, 300 Roma national students in high schools have a scholarship in Vojvodina. Thanks to the poor institutional frameworks at the republic's level, 300,000 euros received by the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of this year were abolished precisely because of the behaviour of the Human and Minority Rights Service, due to the behaviour of this Mr. Ljuan Koka, because the Roma Educational Fund in Budapest considered that there was no capacity and that there were abuses to do so, and we need, simply, one control. Regarding these twelve million, Mr Cvetkovic, it is true that there are five million dinars, five million dinars for Serbia's commitment to the international treaty, or the Decada Roma Declaration. These funds do not refer to regular activities towards Serbian citizens, according to the Roma, it is only to international organisations. I'm talking about 12 million who need to help our citizens living under bridges, who should live better, and we all agree that we have this obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11408	After you asked the additional question, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11409	Mr. Shain, I want to tell you that there is one flossula which, unfortunately, may still be partially accurate, which is that politicians are only dealing with the Roma at the moment of the election. It's not our definition, it's not the government's definition, and that's why I have in my cabinet as Mrs. Tinde Kovac's advisor, who has been working exclusively on the international level for four years, at the level of central Europe, i.e. Eastern Europe, on the issue of implementing the Decade of Roma. I accept your initiative and suggest that with you, with the other Roma party and with all those representing the Roma, with the Minority Rights Service, we hold a meeting next week to see where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11410	The next question will be asked by MPs from the Vojvodjanski MEPs – LSV, SVM. Here you are, MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11411	Thank you, Mr. President. Since I wanted to ask Minister of Infrastructure Mr. Velimir Ilic and Minister of Economy Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, and I see that they are not present, I will not ask them anything of course. I only have a brief question (maybe I will be boring) for Minister Markovic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government. I must point out that there have been some positive developments in that ministry over the past few months. But I would say that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the prime minister, and I think the minister (this is a small criticism), has done nothing to clarify some aspects of the action of former Prime Minister Zoran Loncar. He, I will remind you, because I come from Zrenjanin, and now it is one year from the introduction of temporary measures in my city and many other environments – in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which he has applied for, and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, he has violated the provisions: that when the appointment of a local government's temporary authority, two segments must be satisfied - national and that the political situation in the local self-government before the disbanding of the municipality. It was never done in Zrenjanin. A New Serbia party has been introduced into the interim body, which received 0.28% of the vote in the elections, and there is no such vote. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, my party, which won 10% in the local elections, has no SRS that received 20%, has no other political parties, so the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia has certainly been violated, and I think that the government, headed by the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic and the resolution minister, had to do much more. Thank you, and I expect an answer, and I expect a reaction in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11412	Thank you. The answer will be given in writing in the Rules of Procedure provided for in the time limit. The next question is asked by an MP from the Group of Minorities – SVM, LZS, URS, KPD. The word has a folk letter from Martha Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11413	Dear Ministers, the Presidency, Mr President, Members of the People, I must first express great regret that I see very few representatives of the Government. My particular question is to Mr. Lonchar, Minister of Education. If possible, I would now ask Mr. Djelic's answer, if not, for a written reply from Mr. Lonchar. A few months ago, I presented to the Committee a problem that is affecting most of the national minorities in Vojvodina, but I presented a concrete situation concerning the Hungarian national minority. The problem that occurred 13 years ago is that the Hungarian language and literature inspector, Mrs. Fazekash Catalin's advisor, retired and since then we've been forgotten. For Banat territory, there is no inspector who would oversee work in the educational system as regards Hungarian as the native language, the teaching of Hungarian language and literature. We think this is a big problem, and we'd like to find a solution in the very near future, an appropriate frame, to find an inspector who would deal with these issues. Because there is a need, professors and teachers believe that this is a very big failure, that there are no adequate seminars organized for them for years, and that it turns out that everyone does what they do, that there is no unity. They point out the importance of this problem because before, when Mrs. Fazekash Catalin worked very well with them, they were much more complicated and only teaching was much more quality. If I could use the rest of my time, I'd like to thank again the representatives of the government present. I think it's a very big problem that Mr. Vojislav Kostunica couldn't show up. We really understand the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, but we think that we should finally address some other issues and it is interesting that everyone here thanks for finally having the opportunity to talk this way. Many other countries have a day to ask questions, so should we. We think this should really become a practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11414	Thank you. The answer will be written by the Minister of Lonchar. The next question is asked by MPs from the LDP parliamentary club. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11415	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank you first, Mr. President, for starting to apply the Rules of Procedure and allowing us to meet with the Government's representatives in debates on issues which, otherwise, are not on the agenda and do not come out of discussions that we are conducting by considering the legislative proposals of the Government or initiatives that are being initiated by the parliamentary groups. This is the first time. I hope that it will become a rule, not an exception, and that, among other things, good questions and a reasoned debate will support the need for this kind of joint work. It is a pity that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is not here because we would ask all questions to him, as a person who, in our opinion, is crucially responsible for the government's work. But it is a good thing that here is Vice President Bozidar Djelic, Ministers Bubalo and Milosavljevic, the person whose work we strongly criticise and on whom our parliamentary group has major political objections. So I would like to ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Trade Mr. Bubal and Minister of Agriculture Mr. Milosavljevic: Are they familiar with Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I remind you, this is the Constitution for which you voted and the Constitution in which you should believe, since you sought support for it, and the Constitution which in Article 6 in a very clear way defines your obligations which, in our opinion, you have flagrantly violated. ''No one can perform a state or public function that conflicts with its other functions, business or private interests. The existence of a conflict of interest and responsibility in its resolution shall be determined by the Constitution and by law.' Mr. Vice President Djelic, Mr. Minister Bubalo and Mr. Minister Milosavljevic, you have harshly trampled the Constitution in violation of Article 6. You have violated the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and you, as holders of the most important functions in this country, directly subordinated the public interest of your own personal interest and the private interest of the company "Delta" Miroslav Miskovic, opposing the efforts of state institutions that exist to do their job prescribed by the Constitution and law, therefore, to the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, the Anti-Monopolian Commission and the Anti-Corruption Council, to do their job. So we ask you first, are you familiar with Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then we ask you for an explanation of yours, according to us unacceptable and illegal procedures of identifying government institutions, parliamentary institutions, with the private interests of the company 'Delta' and the order of public interest of Miroslav Miskovic. Answer the question: What is your legal basis for supporting the company 'Delta' in which the Anti-Corruption Council assesses the behaviour of the company against the law? Why, as ministers, have you kept silent criticisms that you are exposed to by state institutions that are obliged to fight corruption and crime in this country? So why are you deaf about the criticisms that identify you as people who put pressure on state authorities by preventing them from doing their job? We have a long debate ahead of us, and I urge you to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11416	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11417	Mr. Jovanovic, I know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I defended him, unlike you. Of course I know article 6. If you have any question whether or not I or any other state official violates the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest—and it is not called the Council for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, please learn the name of the Authority, it is called the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest—in that sense, I call upon you to present immediately all evidence that I have broken the law, we will answer to the Authority. Some of the other MPs of this house have done so and have received the appropriate answer. I remind you that there are other provisions in this Constitution, for example, preambles, I hope that you too respect it, according to which our country should remain comprehensive, that we should defend the integrity of our country and territorial integrity. Since, according to the denial of the American administration, as far as I can see, the document based on which you filed criminal charges of counterfeits, I notice that on the basis of one counterfeit, you made a list of political enemies, including people from the media. It reminds me of some methods in the '90s, when, on the basis of counterfeits, someone calls out and draws up lists of political inexperiences. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11418	Thank you. Answer the parliamentary question, Minister Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11419	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I would like to say to this question by Ambassador Jovanovic that I know the Constitution, that I have not broken this Constitution or any other law. I want to say that this answer was also received on the Trade Committee, where the same party, led by Mr Jovanovic, tried to impute or add that I pressured the Competition Protection Commission. The committee just received an answer from those working on that commission. But there's something more important than this. This is my decoded answer. Other answers MP Jovanovic will receive within eight days, and the most important answers and satisfaction will be given in court, where he will be pleased to prove what he claims.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11420	The word has Minister Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11421	I know every member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It stands on my desk and I read it regularly. I have never broken any member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor will I ever do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11422	Thank you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a commentary on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11423	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Djelic, it's nice that you have the territorial integrity of the country, but it would be very good to have this fight for Kosovo, not Delta Siti, Miroslav Miskovic. As for the arguments you used, please state who denied the memo from the meeting of Bratislava Grubačić with the US Embassy's political officer. Name and last name of the person who denied it. Get out here and tell me who denied it. Don't quote anonymous sources of those who don't know what to do at the moment because they're caught up in a political legacy they're not responsible for. So we're asking you, Mr. Djelic, for very clear answers. Why, as Deputy Prime Minister, have you subordinated the public interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who protects the Anti-Monopolis Commission, the interest of the Delta company, openly placing themselves on the side of the criticised Miroslav Miskovic by saying that in Serbia they are successfully attacking and tripping, and that Delta is an ice-cracker and a state project? Did you, when you made that statement, know that ten police investigations were being conducted against Miroslav Miskovic in the MUP for participation in organised crime and corruption? How could you, as Deputy Prime Minister, say something like that about a person who's covered in the investigation for smuggling cigarettes in the Network police action? How could you, as Deputy Prime Minister, say something about a person the UN tribunal found in its investigations to be a financial pillar of Milosevic's regime during the 1990s? And how could you finally say something like that when the Anti-Corruption Council criticized the work of the Delta Company? As for you, Mr. Bubalo, of course the courts exist to discuss issues that are not discussed in Parliament. But you pressured the members of the Antimonopoly Commission, and they declare it, and they confirmed it on the Trade Committee. That's not true. That's very true, and that's what the public saw. But as you're trying to convince us that in other situations we shouldn't trust our eyes and ears, that's what you're trying to do right now. It can't work anymore. Miroslav Miskovic may become the master of everything in this society, but he cannot have a monopoly on the truth, nor can he alter the feeling that citizens have at the moment when they judge the ties between the government and its company. As for you, Mr Milosavljevic, and for you one very interesting question: How is it possible that, as president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, you are in line with the request of the company Delta, in which it asks the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia to skill out its positioning on the market, since the Antimonopol Commission has concluded that there is more than 40%, how did you get to the company Konzit, whose owner, who then challenged the conclusion of the Antimonopol Commission, passed on to the company "Delta" to the directed report on which it has only 11% of the market? The report is the basis for a trial conducted by Delta against the Anti-Monopolitan Commission and on the basis of which it defends its monopoly position. You did it. Go and work with Miskovic at the Delta Company and that'll be fine. But you can't, as Minister of Agriculture, at the same time serve both public and private interest, which is so controversy with public interest. And there's nothing but the argument and the facts that we're talking about. I invite you now, Bozidar Djelic, to go out for this pay phone and tell you who told you at the U.S. Embassy that the document we sent to the Justice Department is not correct. We forwarded this document to Dusan Petrovic. No one denied it. Name and last name of whoever did it. Don't call on anonymous sources. We are ready, both in a congregation debate and in a conversation with the competent authorities, to submit additional documentation. You don't have a problem with LDP. You have a problem with your actions and a problem with persons who, interpreting your actions, obviously allowed themselves so much that they can represent themselves to your representatives, defining you as their own officers. Solve it with Miroslav Miskovic, solve it within your party, resolve it within your government, but you have no right to ask us to remain silent, nor will we ever do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11424	Answering the additional question, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11425	As for the credibility of certain documents, it is known how it is proven. You'll see that in court. Here and give any evidence that you think is credible. As for the Anti-Corruption Council, unfortunately, Mr Jovanovic, there is one unfortunate thing about Internet times, which is to remember everything. As no one has forgotten the certain pressures that you, when you were in office, made on some commissions, that the privatisation of this institution goes to this or to what I have never done, unlike you, Mr Jovanovic, who you were then, because Mrs Baraq, respecting the law, criticised you for that, the way you answered them, the terms you used, and many other things – unfortunately, can no longer be deleted. We'll discuss that with Mrs. Barac and the entire Anti-Corruption Council. Today, with Minister Petrovic, we have a meeting with the Anti-Corruption Council (I hope you will excuse me for leaving this short meeting at this esteemed home), to see what the next steps are, in an institutional sense, to fight corruption. So much for you and this case. I won't answer those questions anymore. We'll meet in court for everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11426	Answering the additional question, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and then Minister Predrag Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11427	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, I am not the owner, nor was I a consultant of the Consit House. At the time of the survey, in the summer of 2006, I was president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Delta hired a private consulting firm to investigate the market. She did so with statistical data and every item in that report was the result of information from the Republic Statistics Office, the Payment Office, Customs Administration, so I did not violate any public interest in any way and I did not wrong myself on any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11428	Answering the additional question, Minister Predrag Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11429	The answer for Ambassador Jovanovic, who obviously did not even read the complaint he prepared and published on his party's website. So, in this lawsuit, it accuses me of getting an order to destroy the Anti-Corruption Committee, and now here it is again talking about the Competition Protection Commission, which has been unequivocally found to have never put pressure on it. I did mention this commission in my first address, and it was Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic that I mentioned and drew on. He got hooked, which isn't unusual for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11430	Mr Jovanovic, you do not have the right to ask an additional question now, you have the right to comment on the answers you have received.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11431	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, but what is this debate with the government's representatives on the most important issue that is at this point asking our society for its answer, if we do not have the right to further questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11432	Mr. Jovanovic, the Rules of Procedure are clear. You had the right to further questions and you got the answers to the additional questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11433	Now I have to ask new questions to the ministers who are here. Instead of answering questions, they said I'd see you in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11434	Mr. Jovanovic, you can only plead your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11435	Mr. Djelic, your interpretations of my relations with Verica Barac are as credible as the interpretations of the talks with Zarko Korac and Vesna Pesic. Do you want me to wait until you finish embezzling or is that a cultural demonstration? As for Mr. Korach, you got an answer from him yesterday. This debate needs our society. I'm glad, Mr. Bubalo, that you added to my addiction another form. But that, in itself, doesn't change the essence. If there is a sports mob in this society, if there is a construction, if there is a roadway, if there is an educational one, if there is a customs one, if there is a bankruptcy, if there is a hunting party - how is it possible that in the most immoral state of Europe of the 21st century, a crime, corruption, crimes accused of genocide, convicted of not being a genocide? How is that possible? There's a political mob. You've opened up space for our criticism by your actions. I made myself very clear. On the Trade Committee, members of the Antimonopoly Commission listed you, along with some other ministers, as a pressurer. And we, considering the evidence and the severity of the crimes we have done, have filed criminal charges for those violations of the law that we consider to have the weight necessary for the trial. This isn't about any failures. As you know, we didn't process everyone who was involved with the Delta Company because we didn't have the legal basis for that. Mr. Milosavlevich, it's not exactly your explanation. You've consciously played the law. You're the real owner of that firm. Technically, the founders are other people, but you own this company, your wife owns the company. Don't humiliate our public to that extent. Go out and tell the company why you gave the company the fabricated material, untrue, faked, based on which she challenged the Anti-Monopolitan Commission report. That's very important. You have thus provided a legal basis for the campaign that "Delta" leads, avoiding respect for the law and sanctioning for breaking the law. As for our relationship with the Anti-Corruption Council and all other institutions, it will still be as it has been in the past today. We will defend our political views and beliefs, discuss with the Council, but we will never side with the interests and efforts of the Council to fight corruption. It's a government institution. The Anti-Monopolitan Commission is a parliamentary institution and Parliament and the government is obliged to protect the integrity of these institutions and to defend them from the pressures they are exposed to because they are doing their job. Mr. Djelic, go ahead and answer the questions I asked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11436	Please, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11437	Dear MPs, they're obviously trying to abuse parliamentary questions here. Today, there are a dozen ministers who have come to answer questions that are of interest to our citizens, that they can assess by your questions whether we are doing enough, whether we are doing what we should do, whether we are doing it in accordance with our government's program or not. Unfortunately, we see, maybe we could have predicted it wasn't going that way. I want to tell you, this is the third and last time I'm going to take my word for this case, about this charge - it's going to be proven in court. As for the Anti-Corruption Council, today we have a meeting and we are moving on in the construction of our institutions and, of course, through which week and month, we will come before this high house to present proposals in that domain. I want to say - that's the last thing and then I won't talk about it anymore - that I had the chance to talk to the only minister of choice, Zoran Djindjic, who was in LDP, Branislav Lecic. As you saw, when he left that party, he said one thing, and that's "it's up to us" day, but "it's up to one man only." I couldn't believe it was true. There are a few more people I care about. When I saw that accusation, I humanly invited people with whom I went through very difficult times, Mr. Korac, Mrs. Pesic, and I asked them if they thought I was part of some criminal group. The answer I got, the phone, from Mrs. Pesic, was that she was shocked by it, that she would send a protest. And from Mr. Korach, I got the next message. I'll read it to you and then I'll delete it, or I'll leave it so you can see it. Honestly, I'll read it to you because I think that private and public opinion and attitude must be the same. My education and democratic manners must be that what we say to each other in four eyes must be the same thing we say publicly. Here's what Korać said: "Honestly, I had no idea, I'm not a member of the LDP, and today I'm going to talk to Chad. I don't think so, and nobody asked me anything. The end of it. Is it possible that you brought such fear into the bones of people who fought Milosevic? Why are they so scared and is it possible that in your party, which says democratic, or even liberal, people cannot express their own position? It's very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11438	The next question is asked by SPS MP Mr. Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11439	Dear colleagues, we thought that Borka Vukic would come out, and in the next address of the SPS would be her, but since you invited me, just a few things to say before I ask a specific question, it won't take more than three minutes. I call on all colleagues to take advantage of this very significant opportunity, to ask the opposition once a month, or as much as it takes, directly to the ministers. I took this as a return to a good practice that once existed. I would hate for this debate today, as it has begun, to come down to that theory of divorce: that those who loved each other so much today hate each other much more. Although I already have a question, I would like to invite all my colleagues to maintain this practice, to welcome the ministers' arrival because this practice is more appropriate to the opposition than to the authorities, it is obvious. So let us, in this part, take care of all this, that the Ministers continue to come, and we MPs to show that we have, not only a daily, current interest, but that we have really specific questions. I'm going to start with the Ministry of Health, and I think this issue applies to employees not only in health care, but also in the judiciary. I noticed that a good part of the ministers, when they talk about the problem of pay for people who receive their earnings from the budget, is about rationalisation that involves reducing jobs. Please, I'm absolutely sure that, for example, in the area of health care, we have a shortage of employed health workers, not a surplus. And if this is about rationalization, then I think we need to talk about something else: that the internal resources that exist in the area of health are better exploited. One of the things that I think is very good is that, for example, in the transport of drugs, transactions between wholesales are limited to one transaction. I am absolutely sure that such a regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia would lead to a reduction in drug prices of 20-30%, which is not very small at all. The second thing would be to prevent manipulations in the drug market. When it comes to the organisation of a health care institution, I ask you not to fire healthcare professionals, or court workers, or teachers, or doctors. We have frequent reports that when someone retires, the place simply doesn't fill because the ministry has reduced the number of workers in the area. Free Vučetic is a special example. So that's not good. Most of the directors of home health care, at least those in large cities, are actually complaining that there are fewer executives, both doctors and medical staff. Therefore, colleagues dealing with health issues convince me that there are resources in the internal organisation, primarily in primary health care and other protection institutes. I'd like to ask the minister in writing or now, if he's here, to comment on this. So, the intensity is that the resources that exist in the healthcare sector are directed, not to reduce the level of health care and release people, but to address some other methods that I am absolutely sure exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11440	Thank you. The answer to the parliamentary question will be given in the Rules of Procedure of the time foreseen. Group G 17 plus - are there any questions? No, thank you. ) DSS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - is there any questions? No, thank you. ) The DS Parliamentary Group - are there any parliamentary questions? Here you are, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11441	Ladies and gentlemen, at this session where we're asking questions about those who sent us to the National Assembly to represent their interests, I'm going to share with you an anecdote from Great Britain about how the British Prime Minister, in our language, was, in a culinary manner, not just for a pay phone, figured out what the parliamentary questions were. They say he drove his own car and got lost in the evening in the woods and hills of Wales. He didn't know where he was, and he stopped one of the people he accidentally ran into and asked him, "Where am I? ''He said to him, 'In the car, in the woods.' The British prime minister said, "I finally understood what questions and answers meant as part of the assembly procedure." I hope that neither the Deputy Prime Minister nor the present ministers will give answers to this type, that, when we ask them where we are now, they will tell us: in the Assembly, in Belgrade, or in Serbia. My questions concern European integration and are addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, but also to the interior minister and the Ministry of Environment Protection. In fact, it is about European integration, which is not often referred to enough, with little knowledge, with insufficient media support, and in particular almost completely without the participation of the National Assembly, whether in terms of sessions where agenda points would be topics from European integration or on board level. So, the topic is European integration, in which both this government and those before it have done a lot, and the fact is that in this assembly all parliamentary groups support the modernisation and reform of our country in line with European integration, each in their own way and each according to their own political programmes. That's why it's important that we get an answer to three questions. First, it concerns funding instruments that replaced all previous programmes financed by the European Union by various sectors in the countries that have been reformed. I am interested: What is the difference, as statistics say, in the euro, between Serbia and, comparatively, the countries that joined in 2004, or Romania and Bulgaria, which joined in 2007? In general, Serbia will receive about a billion euros for the period 2007-2013. If it is known that our budget is around eight and a half billion euros this year, it means that it is important how much more will help Serbia get from the European Union in the name of the oversighted aid. I'm not asking for a written answer, but I think it would be important for the MPs to know exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11442	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, our support for our entry into the European Union is very broad -- 72% of our citizens want it. Of course, we can talk a lot about whether this support is deep, under what conditions it is, but there must be very few questions where we have so much support for our inhabitants. That's not surprising. When we look at the effects of entering the European Union on various countries of our continent (two decades ago - Spain, Portugal; a decade ago and a little more - Greece; and a few years ago - the countries of the former Socialist bloc), we see that all of them have experienced a significant growth of gross domestic product per capita, they have much better infrastructure, more orderly institutions, in terms of European life. No one's driving us to Europe. On the other hand, we hear the attitudes that we really don't need to get into that structure that's about to fall apart. First, let me say a few words about those attitudes, and then I'll answer your question directly about money. As far as the European Union is concerned, it is a structure that has provided for countries that have fought for centuries, such as France and Germany, to never again be in an armed conflict. The European Union is a structure that has provided long-term peace on our continent and will do the same for the Western Balkan countries. On the other hand, it opened a period of prosperity that our continent had not experienced before: the expansion of the European market with the protection provided by the bloc. Last week I had one, and that was the first time a Serbian official had a meeting with the European foreign trade commissioner. In a globalised world, which is reality, whether we like it or not, so that we can resist the competition of one China or India, the United States, large markets, the only relevant size is called the European Union. She's not just opening the market. I'm sure we'll talk a lot about it when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement comes along, which we initialed in record time, and I hope to sign at the end of January. We should be able to see these other pluses brought by the European Union as soon as possible. It will protect us from the uninterrupted and uncontrollable competition that comes from those gigans that appear on the scene of the 21st century. Let me say that the European Union will not fall apart. We saw that two months ago in Lisbon, a consensus was formed which will be institutionally fully implemented by the end of 2008, and then new voting methods in the European Union itself will come into effect in 2014. It is largely a calendar for our European integration. We see that Europe is expanding, deepening and progressing. We must also say that the aid we have received, which is 1.2 billion euros, since 2001, has not been conditioned, except that, if we want to progress towards Europe, we have to comply with their standards. Of course, there's always a question: What's the cost of helping you? The price of helping you is only one thing, and that's to change the way our institutions function. To reach an agreement with the judicial unions, it seems to me that the minister of justice also has great merit in that domain, will show us how to improve the functioning of our institutions in a social dialogue and support them through European assistance. On Thursday next week, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will sign the IPU, i.e. an instrument in the accession of our country to the European Union. Now to get some figures, finally. We have exactly 986.7m euros. Ten per cent of future aid of a billion euros, for example, in the case of the judiciary, is scheduled to be exactly 190.9m euros next year -- support will be approximately 10%. We now, at this point, of five components and help have access to two: one is to improve institutions, and the other is to improve the functioning of the country and cross-border, regional co-operation. We have the advantage of approach today, but at the same time, you're absolutely right, our neighbors get more -- because they've made more progress. Bulgaria, which you mentioned, which has the same population as our country and approximately the same gross domestic product, will receive 1,600,000 euros as a member of the European Union in 2010, according to estimates. For us at that point, if things don't change, around 300,000 euros are foreseen. We see here that these money - and because they are already members of the European Union, they have full access to all the elements of the European budget - are able to finance infrastructure, science and many other things and thus release funds from their own reserves, their economy and the population, for many other purposes. In other words, it is extremely important for our country to make financial progress as quickly as possible to have the same advantage as some other countries have. Countries closer to us, which have candidate status but are not yet members of the European Union, such as Macedonia or Croatia, receive approximately twice as much per capita. Let me translate that now, in a bit of a pyrotic way, if you'll allow me, into digits. This means that from the current, let's say, an average of 250,000 euros in aid per year, obtaining candidate status could bring us minimum duplication, and I believe three times the amount, of 600,000 euros, and further progress of our country towards the European Union and entry will lead us to the situation where Bulgaria is. Therefore, we must strive to establish all institutions that will enable this assistance to be spent in the right way. I will, of course, open a public debate as a national co-ordinator for this aid and it will not be a black box where someone, in addition to the knowledge of the public, sets priorities, but, of course, it will also be the subject of discussion in this respected home. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11444	Thank you. The additional question, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11445	Ladies and gentlemen, the additional question concerns exactly the allocation of funds we hope to receive on a gift from the European Union, because funds for access to funds are the same as they used to be grants, no matter how pointless it sounds (cannot be translated into English). It's basically helping the country. In the context of spending this money, my question for the Ministry of Environmental Protection is: At what stage and with what plan of deadlines is the national strategy for Serbia's waters? What is otherwise the process of joining the European Union concerns several ministries, including the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11446	I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, to interrupt you now. You have no right to ask a further question to the other minister. You may comment or ask a further question to the Deputy Prime Minister after you asked him the first question. What you're doing right now is a new question you're asking the other minister. So I ask you either to define your question to the Deputy Prime Minister, or to make a comment, or to move on, so when it's your turn again, that you ask a new question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11447	Thank you. I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, grateful for thelerant approach of the President of the Assembly. I only asked the additional question as a sequel to what I had asked in my first address. I said I was asking the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, the Minister of Environment and the Ministry of Police, and that is the free and creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, in the context that I have allowed myself. Here, the MPs say to ask which other minister, but I, if I were a member of the opposition, would not advise members of the ruling majority to ask their ministers, but I would ask myself. I thank you again, and I have no objection to the written response. But really, I find the question of water extremely important and I think that too little is being discussed about really important issues that are more important to the population of Serbia, and much less, at least in public, for us politicians and politicians in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11448	Thank you. The next question is asked by MPs of the SRS parliamentary club. Here's a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, deputy head of the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in recent days, we have had the opportunity to ask the question of the status of Slobodan Vučetic, former President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. According to that people's -- we were chasing the fox, and we forced the wolf out -- I, as chairman of the Administrative Board, asked the Constitutional Court to be absolutely sure of what was going on with the Constitutional Court, or the President of the Constitutional Court. I received the answer that the Constitutional Court, as well as Slobodan Vučetic, acted in accordance with the law. He informed Predrag Markovic's president that he had completed his job and that, by law, he must retire. He also informed Serbian President Boris Tadic on 10.9 and 14.9 that he had obtained conditions and had to retire. I question the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, whether he was informed that Slobodan Vučetic had obtained conditions for retirement and that he had informed the president of the Assembly and the president of the Republic of Serbia. You know we haven't had a Constitutional Court in 14 months. Under the previous Constitution, Article 83. The authority of the president of the Republic, he says -- proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court. The President of the Republic was obliged to, when he received a notice from Slobodan Vučetic, i.e. from the Constitutional Court, at the same time propose to the National Assembly of the New Court of Justice, to elect the President of the Constitutional Court, because the letter stated that by leaving Slobodan Vučetić from the office of the President of the Court, since he did not intend to be the deputy president (you are not then as in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade) the Constitutional Court would be blocked and that he would not be able to do so. So far you have about a thousand and some items. (The President bell rings a warning to the speaker on time. I'm sorry, I'm done. About a thousand and a few cases stand before the Constitutional Court. The question arises whether the President of the Republic has deliberately violated the Constitution or has done so because of some fact that is beyond its power. I'm interested in why the Prime Minister didn't act, in accordance with the Constitution, under his jurisdiction, to get us a Constitutional Court. We haven't had a Constitutional Court in 14 months. It was only two months ago that consultations began, or proposals, and this led us to reason to suspect, i.e. to find out why the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, broke the Constitution and to initiate the processes that envision it, in accordance with the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11450	Thank you. The question will be forwarded to the Prime Minister. Next in line for asking parliamentary questions is the Vojvodjani MPs' group - the Alliance of Vojvodjan Hungarians. Do you want to ask a question? Yeah. Here you go. Then the Group of Minorities and then the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11451	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I belong to that group of MPs who is a great supporter of this kind of work, and I sincerely advocated, and I hope that in the new Rules of Procedure, this view will be even better defined and that we will honor each other and that here in this House, we will be able to tell each other everything we have, and not break through the press. I was very surprised when I had opportunities, like you, to read and watch the statements of some ministers, who were sitting with us a few months ago in the benches, who made every effort to make mistakes, to harm the Assembly, forgetting that we were on the same mission, and the National Assembly and Government, which is - to provide our citizens with a far better life than they have today. I refer my question to Mr. Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. On September 25th (because we did not have a session on July 25th, due to vacation), I asked the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put information on the agenda of the session on the disastrous consequences of this year's drought in our agriculture. I also asked that we consider the ban on exports of cereals, corn, soybeans and sunflowers from the Republic of Serbia. Of all the MPs present, and we had the "fat" quorum, I only got the support of one MP. In that regard, neither Mr. Minister, who was present together with his associates, nor the MPs, both the position and the opposition, considered it appropriate to discuss all this as special points of the agenda. I must point out that the municipalities, as well as the entire regions of the Republic of Serbia, suffered great damage this year from natural disasters: first from floods, then from the city and finally from drought. In the north of Backa drought has left truly disastrous consequences. The municipalities of Backo Topola, Subotica, Mali Ijoš, Senta, Kanjiž and Ada have more than 40% reduction in yield compared to 2006 when it comes to all autumn culture, and more than 60% reduction in yields is... (The President bell rings a warning to the speaker on time. )......................................................................................................... One more sentence or two, please... when it comes to corn. At that meeting, I had suggested that we should not allow paraories to appear with combined and heavy machines in Belgrade to seek their rights, but that we should go to meet the problem, to solve it. We were promised then, at that session, by the minister, that within two or three weeks, the government would come out with constructive measures on this matter. Until today, I haven't seen it, so I wanted to ask you, "What are these constructive measures?" I hope that's certainly not a gendarme, or this upheaval situation in the north of Buck, which led to yesterday's committee in SO Saturday's fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11452	Thank you. The word has the Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11453	The economic and finance resolution committee, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, discussed during October and November information prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management related to the consequences of the catastrophic drought, which hit the entire territory of Serbia this year. Unfortunately, drought did not happen only in some parts of Serbia, it happened throughout Serbia's territory. And, if I'm not mistaken, I think that at the government session, held on 8 November this year, we adopted one complete piece of information, which defined both the concrete measures and the activities that will be taken to ease the effects of the drought. Unfortunately, the only thing that the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot meet right now is the concrete cash compensation sought by farmers from the north of Vojvodina, amounting to 10,000 dinars per hectare of sown areas. However, the measures adopted by the government contain very important aid, primarily related to the postponement of the agricultural tax for the next two years, 2008 and 2009, then the postponement of a year of short-term agricultural credits by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the reduction of contributions from the water industry and the debts from Serbia and Serbia, then the promise of the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance that they will find ways to help those who were most at risk during spring radiation work through the payment of 100 euros per hectare in the first quarter of the following year and a lot of other measures that are all of which we have made a maximum effort to mitigate the consequences. So, I'm not saying to resuscitate them, because it's simply not possible because the information collected says that the drought damage in war cultures this year is about 45,000,000,000 dinars across Serbia's territory. So it's almost two agrarian budgets of the Republic of Serbia, two annual budgets, and there are no funds. We also made a commitment that next year we would provide for much greater funds to subsidise crop insurance, fruits, animals. We're going to go into a large education of farmers that insurance of their work is the only way that damage from droughts and floods, don't God some other disasters, the city, etc., can be warned in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11454	Thank you. An additional question or an answer comment? Here, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11455	I think it'll be both. I'm glad the government sat down and talked about all this on November 8th, but why doesn't it go public and tell people all this? It's very late on November 8th compared to when we all knew in September, especially those who were seriously involved in this production, that they would come out on everything we pointed out and talked about. I am pleased that the minister accepted my proposal, which I said at the time, that in the first quarter of 2008, all agricultural producers were paid subsidies, although on the Committee, when we talked about it, it seemed not to be so. I would suggest to the Ministry and the Minister himself that these contributions to agricultural producers go automatically by units of the area of agricultural land they have, and only registered. I hope there won't be any late information like this in the future. Believe me, I support a strike in the judiciary when justified, in education, in health care, but don't force those who feed us to be unsatisfactory, to rise and unnecessarily stir up passions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11456	Thank you. Does anyone appear on behalf of the Minority Group - SVM, LZS, URS, CAPD? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11457	To correct you, Elvira Kovac, you just introduced me as Martha, in the name of the Duke Hungarian Union. I am very sorry that the foreign minister is not present, but I would like to ask Mr Djelic's oral response. A few MPs up to 30 years old and I, this week, a few days ago, were in Brussels, NATO Command, one day, and the second day in Mons, Shape, where we listened to lectures about how much the organization wants, waited, called Serbia, and the position of our government is simply that we do not want to join NATO. We all know which parties, among other things SVM, are for Euro-Atlantic integration. The only thing that is unclear is our government's position, whether we're actually to join NATO or not. We would like to hear, for our sakes, our constituents, as well as the public, an explanation of what the government's position is. We understand that there are some disagreements between the biggest parties that make up the government, but that is why we would like to hear some concrete answer as to what our position on this issue is. An ideal opportunity would be in spring, in a few months, in April, a summit in Bucharest, where we should be invited together with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now the question is whether we will be invited at all. As for the technical agreement, it was expected that Serbia would sign the agreement, however, all of this has been hitched at the moment. If you can, Mr. Djelic, answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11458	Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11459	The government of the Republic of Serbia's platform and work are clear. Our country entered the Partnership for Peace summit in Riga last November and the government of the Republic of Serbia unanimously adopted a presentation document presented by the foreign minister in Brussels in September this month. That is why our country will continue to develop relations with NATO within the Partnership for Peace, as many other countries, including the Russian Federation, do. As for the issue of joining NATO, I first want to tell you that this issue is not on the agenda, that Serbia was not a potential candidate for entry next year. You are right to expect a number of countries in our environment to enter NATO in Bucharest next April. It will most likely be Macedonia, Albania and Croatia. For the next step in this domain, I would like to say that this is not on the agenda and that, when that happens on the agenda, citizens will decide on it at the referendum, as was the case in all countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11460	Thank you. The next question is the MEP from the LDP Parliament Club. Here you are, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, a few questions. Since there is no Prime Minister, I will address the Vice President. Did the government get from the Anti-Corruption Council a memorandum from which it all started, a memorandum of merger, to simplify because of the ordinary audience, Delta and Ce-market? Is this common in countries of market economy, in countries of healthy competition, in the countries of European integration that you stand for so much? Do you consider it normal for the Faculty of Law to trample its tradition, all norms, all ethics, every moral (there are some of our fellow Members among them, which makes me ashamed) and, at the request of Delta, gives legal interpretation that there is no Delta monopoly, that legal interpretation is accepted by the Supreme Court and it becomes an integral part of the verdict? Mr. Djelic, Minister Cvetkovic has gone, where are the country's foreign reserves? How much of the country's foreign reserve is located in Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, whose majority shareholder is Vojin Lazarevic? Where's the money that's coming from Mobtel's sale? Are they, by any chance, in the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, whose majority shareholder is Vojin Lazarevic? Mr. Djelic, what were you going to say when you were, opening Delta City, saying it was a state project or a state interest? It reminds me of the moment Mladjan Dinkic drank champagne for selling Delta Bank "Banci Intez", and the money went to Cyprus, instead of doing so by the Cypriot finance minister. Mr. Djelic, do you have any business dealings with one of the people accused of the tobacco mob? His name is Sinisha Stojic. Are you in partnership with him about some projects and some jobs and privatisations in Sokobanja? If not, why did you fire his stepdaughter, Natasa Corbic, who is a representative figure, complete the LSI, a postgraduate study at the LSI? Since you're already serving, and now, by cell phone and text messages, why did you just text her that if this is said for a pay phone, she says it's not true? Why did you fire her first, when you previously praised her, and then you were afraid to give the right answer to this question? There's nothing personal about it. These are just questions, I'm not saying anything, but I just think things should be pushed out, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11462	Thank you. Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11463	My personal comment is that it's sad what some people become. About the merger memorandum, I asked the prime minister, as he mentioned himself, and he replied that he had no involvement in the merger or intensification on that memo, which I received from the Anti-Corruption Council, which I of course read, nor did he have any authority on the matter. So it's two private companies. As far as law school is concerned, of course I've read that opinion and it's my understanding that, under one, the Law Faculty was not institutionally invited to give an opinion, and under two, I remind you that the university has autonomy, so it's not a government-led body. So the question, in the good spirit of democracy, should be directed to the dean and the professors who gave their expert opinion. What was the issue of foreign reserves, I guess everyone remembers as much as I personally, as finance minister, struggled to, by order and opinion of the then vice governor of the National Bank, then Yugoslavia, now Serbia, and the current governor, foreign reserve transfers from that low-quality bank to something that is a high-quality bank, whether it's in a country or abroad, and that led to a reduction. Of course, I'll do it for article 200. The Rules of Procedure ask the governor to let us know if there are any foreign reserves left in that bank. The last time I verbally talked to him about it, it went towards reducing and shutting down that deposit, which is good. As for money from the sale of Moby 063, it is in the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget at the National Bank of Serbia, and the country's foreign reserves are being handled by the National Bank. It was a question of where the reserves were. I think that's a question we're going to have to talk about when they come to the agenda, in the next few months, to amend and supplement Serbia's bank law. I shouldn't, if I may put it more freely, create any name about where the reserves are, under what conditions and what are obtained. One thing must be known, which is that the National Bank, or the central bank of any country, handles significant resources. Given how shallow our capital market is, it would be harmful, and could lead to serious ethical problems, providing information about what the National Bank intends to do at a given time, as this would lead those who have access to information to the possibility of profit without any risk. It's a practice absolutely in all countries. We will also monitor transparency, which I think must be increased, in knowledge of what our foreign exchange reserves are, where they are placed and how they are handled. In this home, because the National Bank of Serbia corresponds to the Assembly and not to the Government, I expect us to take an additional step, safeguarding any form of demagogy and in that domain. A large part of the foreign reserve is apparently placed in high-quality banks in countries that are part of the eurozone. The question of reserves in other forms, whether it's gold or other precious metals, must be set up, but it's now a very small, negligible part of our foreign reserve. I believe that no one will complain that our country's foreign reserves have crossed a 14.000,000,000-euro quota. After democratic changes, we started with a level of about 200 to 300 million dollars, which in a very clear way shows the progress of our country. We found it, for a variety of reasons, I wouldn't talk about it today because I don't think it's a subject, at an extremely low level and, thank God, for the last seven years, with the huge problems she's had, our country has managed to establish reserves that guarantee the solidity of our coin. I'd like to say the same thing as a few facts about the questions you've asked about the possible monopoly of the Delta company. First, according to the law adopted by this House in 2005—there was a minister of trade who was not a proposing because he had another portfolio then, someone else proposed it, but the government adopted and sent it to the esteemed home for adoption—since the law came into force it has been in place to form an appropriate independent institution called the Competition Protection Commission, which is headed by the Council. At this point, the situation is next. So what I'm saying is, you can look online, you can look over-the-line, through various analyses, in no way have I said anything about any individual case, nor will I say today because it could also be seen as a form of pressure around an individual case. Don't expect that from me because it's not my role to give for the right to one or the other. The situation is next. The Supreme Court has overturned the Commission's previous decision due to legal inadequacy. Four or five days ago, if I'm not mistaken, the Commission has reached a new solution in which the merger of the two companies you spoke of, Mr Batic, is against the law. Now, according to the information I received from that institution, it prepares an explanation and a proposal for appropriate punishment. One of the shortcomings in the law is that the Commission does not impose penalties. In the amendments and additions to the laws that we have prepared, we will correct this deficiency because, under the existing law, responsibility is, in fact, transferred to the judge for violations. We see for ourselves that this solution is not complete, that judges for violations, who mainly devote their working hours to issues that are far less, individual values, which have no training in that domain, for the time being. That's why we're going to change him, so that in the fullest degree, the Commission can impose penalties, if he thinks there should be a punishment. And not just that. Unlike the existing law, the proposal that we will deliver to you is, I am convinced, similar to what exists in other countries. The next steps in this domain are that if merger and separation occurs, which unfortunately does not exist as an institute and possibility in the existing law, the Commission may send a judge for violations of the reasons and a proposal for punishment. This could be between three and ten percent of the total income for the previous year of the one who made the anti-candidate concentration. What I can say as a member of the government is that we will stand by independent institutions and ensure the conditions for their decisions to be implemented. That's what I can say. Of course, if I hadn't said that a private company is a state project, it would have been cryptosocialism, I just said that big companies in our country, as well as everywhere in the world, have extra responsibility. The additional responsibility is that in the case of trade, what some other countries had, such as Slovenia or Croatia, which is that some of their trade chains buy trade chains in countries in the environment, which made it possible in fact, and we also see it on the shelves of our shops, the possibility to place our products. Of course, one more thing has to be done, and that's that, looking at the facts in our country, there's not enough trade. For organized trade in super and hypermarket form, hard discount (excuse that there are no Serbian words for all these terms and organizations in the store), if we look at the average squares per resident in Belgrade, we lack three times as many squares as we have today. The responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of all the authorities, and in the city of Belgrade, will be to ensure uninterrupted competition, in other words, that anyone who wants to open a hypermarket, a supermarket, a shopping mall will be able to do so. I want to say that, eight days after my presence, which welcomed only the opening of 1,500 new jobs, I opened an angry competitor, Delti, it's the Interex, a French company. You might now say I'm a French agent here. No, I'm behind the law and I'm going to open up new Delta facilities, as I'm going to open up the facilities of their competitors, domestic and foreign, because we need competition. Competition is the right thing to do. For your last question, Mr. Batic, if you think I broke the law in any way, go ahead, fold the tab and sue me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11464	Thank you. Here you are, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11465	Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no arguments, then you talk for ten minutes. It's really sad what some people have turned into. I'm thinking of you, Mr. Djelic. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the simple reason that you've allowed yourself anything else. You said this current government was actually the first democratic government. That's what you said, as you said opening Delta City was a state interest. I'll bring it to you, Mr. Djelic, both of you. That's what you said and all of Serbia listened. Remember, Mr Djelic, on January 15th 2001, we were coming back together - I was coming back, you were coming - when Zoran Djindjic called you to the first democratic government. Because of the memory of Zoran Djindjic, you should never have said that. Never. And you allow yourself a lot of things. Not to say it's unfortunate that you claimed to be "or prime minister or nothing," and now you claim to be training as prime minister. But it's your right. Mr. Djelic, and I just said, no finance minister, I wanted to ask him questions about foreign reserves. You tried to answer something. I know, he's closer to the finance minister than you are, and I know he's in the governor's custody of the one you chose, even though he's taxed. I guess that's a demonstration of the fight for European and democratic Serbia. A tax evasion man, all of Serbia knows it. I've been robbed through cash registers, through these wrinkles with the Euroaxis Bank, and you all know where the money is. Why don't you tell me where the money is? Once again, because you were blackmailed by one of the ruling coalition's parties, and that's how, we all know that, you don't have to explain it to me. It's true, Mr. Djelic, that you're opening up some other shopping malls and some salons, it's become your manners. You don't mention that it's a state interest, but, Mr. Vice President, you abuse your function, since these shopping centers and these car salons pre-furnished companies very close to you, so they're also abuses and conflicts of interest. Bottom of the line. That's your answer. Answer me, and I'll tell you who the company is and what person it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11466	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, Borka Wolf. (Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Please stay for Bozidar Djelic in the hall. ) Božidar Djelic will remain in the hall. The next one will appear in front of LDP, Zarko Korac. It's going in order. When the LDP comes to order - Žarko Korac. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is one new thing we're doing, we're just trying to define something that's quite inaccurately defined by the Rules of Procedure. There is Rule 202g of the Rules of Procedure which defines parliamentary issues and which does not allow for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to be advertised when parliamentary questions are asked. Please respect that. Here you go, Borka Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11467	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be a little different. I'll tie one question to our agrarian and our diaspora. Before that, I'd like to say something. The diaspora has opened up towards us. Regardless of what the diaspora does, to mention only – between three and five billion, which annually comes to us in terms of the signs that are mostly spent, it was interested in asking us a few more questions after that big discussion in Parliament. We're in very solid relations with the diaspora. The SPS has several times received a diaspora delegation, the one that invested significant funds, about thirteen million then marks, to rebuild the country. We've been dealing with this problem for a long time. In the end, the minister came, reasonable, sat down with us, closed it all up, and we came out with the amendment as an SPS. The problem of three and a half million euros, a lot of money, and two and a half million in dinars, she understood. I must commend the new minister's expertise. Mr. Cvetkovic helped us a lot and told us - we can't end it now, but I will make sure that together with professional services and competent institutions we resolve all this. He kept that promise. In the budget for this year, it's settled. However, problems related to the diaspora continue, and I am now asking it as a question. I'm also giving this introduction, since I believe it can be solved, it's a much smaller volume. My question is whether the diaspora funds that were given to diplomatic and consular representations and the foreign ministry will be resolved by the will of our ministry, one or the other, I don't know who it belongs to, but these are small funds. I would ask if it could be solved, because the diaspora would completely close this problem. That's my question, which is in the jurisdiction of two ministries and the National Bank. Also, I have to tell you, you'll forgive me if I take a little bit more time, these days the diaspora is very engaged through banks and research committees to finance agriculture and ask one question. Since I, although studying, have not found the answer to that question, since Vice President Djelic is in charge, and he has become entangled in this problem, I believe he will solve it. They think, and this issue in our newspaper is constantly strained, that the bankruptcy process of four development banks is somehow hidden. I convinced them that it had one procedure, that it was in the Agency's jurisdiction. However, our newspaper often announces that one, two or three banks have over ten billion funds. The question that arises is: When are we going to get a chance to see where the data on the bankruptcy process that goes through this agency, where are they, and where are the placements? I have to say that we didn't find this in the National Bank's report on the state of banking and the financial sector in general, which I must say is very good, that it opened a lot of questions and that we're going to have a rather interesting debate on the facts that are very controversial. So this is a question that I associate with this and to say, since the diaspora is very much involved in a parliament that is being held, we should meet 5,000 young peasants, and even though I am on the Committee on Finance and on Agriculture, I ask...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11468	Mrs. Vukic, I apologize, since you've gone deep in the fourth minute... Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11469	Excuse me... that young peasants together with the diaspora within four projects that are very important and much more important than what we have so far had the opportunity to say, we are interested in whether a strategy for the development of agriculture will be ready quickly and what we can say about the agrarian budget and the diaspora, as well as young farmers, because this assembly will have about 5,000 young people and people from all over the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11470	Thank you. The parliamentary question will first be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and then by Agriculture Minister Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11471	As far as Mrs. Vucic's question is concerned, it is true that for several years the question of the diaspora fund has been raised and, unfortunately, the finding is that this money has been spent, to a large extent non-intentional, and that at the moment the four banks were closed, since we had to give the date until which we were making up for the liquidity, these funds were not present, they were not fresh. Without any discrimination, of course, against that fund, we had to act on it at that moment as against all others who had old deposits that were no longer present. I think, however, that the solution was found. For those small funds you were talking about, here's the finance minister back, so I believe he'll give an answer. That shouldn't be a problem. At this moment, the formation of the Ministry of Diaspora and its strengthening are another proof that the diaspora today is a significant resource for our nation. This relationship that we're asking them for money is not good, and it's outdone. It's very important that in our diaspora we recognize the most precious capital, and these are the people. Their engagement on projects and their return to our country is the best that can happen. The last thing that matters is the important question you've asked, and that's what actually happened to the bankruptcy mass. You're right. I don't think our public has enough information on this, and we'll ask Mr. Jamic first to report within eight days per article 200. I believe we'll see in the final account how long it's been. The last decision is, I'll just point out, if I'm not mistaken, that the building of Beobanke on the Green Wreath is now a state building because it simply cannot be charged out of bankruptcy. A huge part of these alleged billions went, to simplify, to buy social peace, to loans that provided payouts and never had a chance to come back. That's our reality. I think the development of our banking system that happened afterwards shows that we can move on. You're right, you should also provide this home with all the information on what he did to the advice that deals with the management of that bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11472	Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11473	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Vukic, I really welcome your involvement in the investments of our diaspora in agriculture. I also use this pay phone and your question to call on the Serbian diaspora that she is welcome to invest in agriculture. As for the projects we do and strategies, we are about a month late with the end of the strategy. The only reason we're late is a very large number of concrete contributions that have come from agricultural universities, institutes, individuals, municipalities and professional services. This material is consistent and I believe that it will probably come to the government and Parliament at the beginning of next year. As far as rural development and quality of life in the country are concerned, it is absolutely parallel work and parallel level with the agricultural development strategy. Any diaspora investment in the quality of life of a Serbian peasant in the Serbian village is welcome. It will be supported specifically, subsidized and in every way supported by the ministry and the agrarian budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11474	Thank you. In front of the parliament club G17 plus a parliamentary question will be asked by Milosevic Albianic, vice-president of the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11475	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I ask a parliamentary question, I will give a brief introduction. The World Economic Forum measures a global competitiveness index every year. In 2007, of the 131 countries in which the measurement was completed, Serbia ranks 91st. Looking at last year, it's four places weaker. So last year we were 87. Understandably, you can find a reason why the index was moved down. The government was not formed immediately at the beginning, we have a solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues and it is clear that there is political influence. Nine things are measured, such as institutions, infrastructure, macro-economy, primary education, trade, etc. It's a very interesting piece of information. Serbia is 31st in the world after primary education. Look out, Serbia totals 91st and 31st in primary education. It's important next. The Ministry of Education and the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education are a real education strategy in Serbia. However, the withdrawal of the percentage of gross social product for education in Serbia is not satisfactory. So, if there is a strategy, and if the finance ministry's 2006 plan is three and a half percent gross social product, for 2007, the same three and a half percent, for 2008 3.6%, and for 2009 3.9%, I have to read to you percentages for relevant countries in the environment based on data from the European Commission: Croatia over 5%, Bulgaria 5%, Estonia over 5%, Lithuania over 6%, Slovenia almost 6%. So, the Lisbon EU strategy is: We will create the most dynamic and competitive society in the world, based on knowledge. I think we should follow that rhythm, the rhythm of the European Union. But the Minister of Education can't negotiate alone with the unions. He can't promise them anything without the government's education strategy being clear. So the situation must be monitored by both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, to jointly see what the Serbian strategy is and how to invest together in what is our most important portfolio, and I remind you that we are at 31st place in the world by basic education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11476	Thank you. You'll get the answer in writing. Does the DSS - NS - MP Vojislav Kostunica want to ask a question? No, I don't. ) Does the MP DS want to ask a parliamentary question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11477	Knowing that this one of the difficult years in agriculture is for our parore, for farmers, I welcome the step that the government has taken by giving 100 euros per unit of arable land. Speaking to farmers, I often come up with questions that I would ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management: Does the Government intend to take any measures to subsidise agriculture? What are the forms, the structure of the funds designed to subsidise or regress agriculture and improve the situation of our farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11478	Agriculture Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic gives the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11479	Thank you. As for the commitments we have made, and the promises and the budget for this year, all the funds planned for these purposes will be paid. So far, we've paid about six billion dinars based on 100 euros per hectare. In total, the demands, concluded with the previous Monday, are about 6.2 billion to 6.3 billion dinars. Anything that arrives by the end of November, until the deadline for the delivery of applications, will be paid by the end of the year. Our estimate is it's going to be about six and a half billion dinars. Next year we continue with all the good and positive we had during 2007. We're looking for ways to make some additions and some improvements, above all, to sort of ease the problem of drought. I have already said, I will repeat, we will try to pay 100 euros per hectare in the first quarter of next year, in the form of an advance for the following year, all the areas of Serbia that have suffered from drought, but at least 20% of the planned and expected revenues. The other thing is to continue all of these incentives in the livestock sector, which is very important, and we find ways to provide a concrete incentive for each of the cattle' throats in Serbia next year. It is very important that we increase the direct insurance subsidy. This year it was 30% of the value of insurance, fruit, animals and crops. Our wish is to raise it to 40% next year. When the budget is completed and we make definitive calculations, we'll be able, hopefully, and that's the measure to promote and announce. One of the priorities for next year's budget will be irrigation. We continue with good measures that are small this year, but still have yielded results in increasing the surfaces that are irrigated by the treatment of canals in Vojvodina, and also somewhere around Serbia, so next year with 50% we will encourage all those who want to obtain watering equipment and thus reduce dependence on natural factors. We also add subsidies to the area of subsidies for plastics, greenhouses for the production of vegetables and flowers. We plan to expand the number of agricultural machinery and equipment that has a direct incentive from the budget. I believe that according to the budget that we are set up with, with which I must say, at least as a proposal, I cannot be, as a resolution minister, satisfied, but at least a little more than this year will offer farmers and give some hope that the state will give even more in the coming years and that by the time they start big money from the European agricultural budget, it will help our agriculture to become more competitive, to increase the area under plantings, and that everything we do has one primary goal, which is a better life of farmers and a better quality life in the Serbian village.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11480	I thank Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic. Serbian Radical Party, MP Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues, gentlemen of the Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I am expressing great concern. At this crucial moment for the Serbian state and the Serbian people, there are indications, which are said in the ranks of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic is seriously ill. The disease of the President of the Republic, which the public does not know about, can also affect the role of the President of the Republic. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I ask for an urgent answer: Do you have such knowledge? Because it's a very serious thing. We need to enter the procedure next week for the adoption of a new law on the President of the Republic. One member of the law foresees the public work of the President of the Republic. This is not any citizen, not just any person, but a person who, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, should at all times express the unity of the Serbian state, the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia. In case these indications are correct, and I ask you to get this information as soon as possible, we are coming into a situation that, God forbid, something can happen to us from earlier history of the Serbian people, when people who are in the position of the most state government, in such a situation, might not want to face that problem, or for some other reasons, are making and how harmful decisions throughout the nation and across the country, with conventions that can cause us to suffer for a long period of time. It's a very serious matter. You have to deal with this issue urgently because again, not only are there indications, but there are serious talk among ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the medical department, that any possible incompetence due to illness may affect the performance of the duties and the performance of that function. In the event that what I ask you is true, the question is what is the degree of discretion and way of deciding the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic in the situation of resolving the fate issue for the Serbian state and people, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Is it a person who can at any time, without the absence of reality, without any obsessive or any other compulsivity or anxiety, or anything because of the impact of this disease, decide properly and in the way that Serbian citizens seek it? Some of you know very well that, during the period after October 5th, when the Dossov authorities came to this National Assembly and when you took the poor management of Serbia, there was a request and you had to, just like you, Mr. Djelic, to go to VMA and to carry out professional medical examinations. We, SRS MPs, in the law on the President of the Republic, which will come on the agenda next week, are asking for the VMA to be examined, not only by the President of the Republic, but by the obligation for all holders of state functions and for Serbian citizens to periodically receive a report on this. Don't joke about this thing, it's nothing funny, first of all. Please and I am expressing my deepest concern about the fact that there is such information about the disease of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic and I ask you to take action as soon as possible and inform the public about it. I also call on the President of the Republic's Office. This is my specific parliamentary question. Don't any of you dare give me any kind of flat-rate answers because you'll have responsibility for that if you go out for a pay phone right now and you think this is politics and that I'm saying something that has nothing to do with reality. And it has to do with reality. That's why I'm asking you to give me an emergency response, in writing, as soon as possible for eight days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11482	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I suppose the question will be answered in writing. The word is written by the duchy MPs - LSV. Is anyone answering for a word? No one, thank you. ) Next, the Union of Duchy Hungarians - Sandzak List. Is anyone answering for a word? No one, thank you. ) Liberal Democratic Party. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by Prof. Dr. Zarko Korac, LDP MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11483	I apologize to the MPs for not being there from the beginning. I'm a professor and I live on it. My students came today from Ruma to Covin and, as they respect me, I am obliged to respect them, and to be there and to carry out my duties for which the state pays me. The second time in two days, Bozidar Djelic uses my name to defend himself against the charges made publicly. I must repeat that I fully support the parliamentary group's efforts to determine whether Delta has a monopoly on Serbia's market, because there are serious indications that there is this monopoly, and to ask a much harder question: does this monopoly use to financially affect individual MPs and individual parties? I am behind this until the end and I think that this is where Serbia's future is decided, whether one man will succeed in achieving a monopoly that has practically not existed in totalitarian times, which is that he has both financial and political control over one country. There is no more important issue for Serbia today than this. Anyone who opens this question will face the link of the media that is funded by that man, or those people, or someone, or those who are trying here, dragging other people into all of this, to defend themselves. What I'm trying to say is that a civilized man is different from a savage by using public communications as public, not private information. And it's sad to see someone grow out of the context of private data and use them to defend themselves or put themselves in a position to accuse someone else, with that story of being afraid, that he was afraid, that Cedomir Jovanovic had forced someone into the bones. I was in politics, unlike Mr Djelic, from 1990 to 2000, ten years in opposition. I was sitting in this hall with some quality people: from Djindjic, Draskovic, Kostunica... We all sat here, and I was an opposition for ten years. I didn't come to the end, I wasn't offered to enter the government, I was fighting for democratic change. I've been in power for three years. I'm out of power. I'm an opposition now, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Citizens decide who will be in power and who won't. I've never used private data to disqualify any man. Serbia and this assembly, unfortunately, often resemble barbaric society precisely because of the use of such data. The last man I expected to use is Mr. Djelic. Mr. Djelic, it is an honor for you to use some private data from the context next time. Just one warning: and I'm a living human being, and I have my own limit, once again if you do this, I'm going to start using data that will end some people's public careers. This is really a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11484	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Zark Koraq. The word is from Mr Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11485	I call upon Mr. Korach to deliver all the information immediately. Now! And our views in four eyes and public must be identical. I can't have someone who was my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, telling me that he doesn't agree that I'm supposed to be a member of some criminal group, and today he publicly says: well, I don't know, maybe you are. So, what I'm saying is, Mr. Korachu, there are no threats. You're threatening to, if we say something, you're going to say something that you normally have to by law, because whoever hides the elements that can lead to the prosecution of anyone, commits a crime. Please provide all the information you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11486	I thank Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Korach. I'm asking MPs for a little quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11487	Mr Djelic is telling me about this and he respects how private and public data should be harmonised. As you've noticed, I've never provided any private information and I've never carried them out in my life. I told this pay phone that a civilized man is different from another man. But it is obvious that someone, in order to defend himself, believes that all means are absolutely allowed. Mr. Djelic, this is about you. About me - absolutely nothing. Yesterday I said and repeat after this speaker: I support the drive to determine the position of the company Delta and every other company on the Serbian market. I have nothing to do with any company. Not with Delta, not with anyone else. Two: I support the quest to determine whether the company bribes, if you want a rough word, individual politicians and individual parties. There are enough indications to investigate this. Those who talk about it should read public information. Using private data, extracting from context, some stories of coordination - will take us very far away. I warn you, this is a road without a return. It leads to savagery, something that Serbia, which otherwise sees very ugly things on the public stage, should not be watching. I repeat again: I expected it from everyone, but not from you. I've never used private information about anyone in my life to get a head start in a region. Leave me alone, please, Mr. Djelic. Answer the questions you have been asked. The questions you have been asked will be questions that will be asked to other people. To finish: I have no fear; I am not a gentleman, I heard that said, Cedomir Jovanovic forced no fear. That's ridiculous. I'd just like to say one more thing. Maybe that interrogation really should include a very broad group of people. Here, start with me - I don't mind, I won't use any personal data - whether I'm being bribed by the Delta Company, if I have any connections, if I've affected anything, etc. I'm exposed to a public link that apparently someone else has joined lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11488	I thank the People's MP, Zarko Korač. It's SPS MPs' turn. Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, I ask you and the MPs to follow the agreement -- no Rules of Procedure, no replicas when this point is on the agenda. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, Mr Vice President, we have been working on the agenda for two and a half hours on the agenda of Parliament issues and to tell you honestly, I have expected and considered, both as an MP and as a man and as a representative of the Socialist Party, that there are no more important and significant issues for the state of Serbia than the Kosovo and Metohija issue and the fate of the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Indeed, as a people, we find ourselves in the most difficult situation. The people are worried and terrified. We are ahead of the Hamlet's dilemma - to go or stay in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. To go means to leave your centuries-old hearth and everything we've created our whole lives, and staying means to accept assimilation. Mr Vice-President, I ask the government gentlemen and ask the President of the Assembly: Why is there no and when will the session of the Serbian Parliament be on the course of the negotiation process and the report of the negotiating team? What will the government, ministers and president of the state do at this crucial moment, not only to preserve the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but also specifically in terms of creating the necessary unity and achieving political consensus in economic terms, in a diplomatic sense? What, first of all, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do in a safe way? You're not going to let it happen again on March 17th, so let's keep the board's sessions closed here and say we didn't expect it to happen and that we were found. Gentlemen of the government, yesterday you made a decision on some action plans to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Who's going to realize that? I'm telling you, it's time for you to get down here, you or your associates. Kosovo and Metohija are being defended down there. Otherwise, we will have an exodus, the people will leave the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, and afterwards any talks and negotiations will be insane. If there are no Serbs, there are no negotiations and there is no state of Serbia and there will be stabilisation. I expect you to answer the question. If you don't get out, it's a bad sign for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11490	I thank the People's MP, Zvonko Stevic. The word is from Mr Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11491	Mr. Vice President, of course the government has to be ready for every, and blackest, scenario. The ministry for Kosovo and Metohija is tasked with preparing action plans and we are working very hard on it. As far as security matters are concerned, you realize that part of them is a state secret, and I can't talk about it here at all. These issues will be addressed by the National Security Council, where they belong. As for the survival of non-Albanians in the territory of our southern province, the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a assembly committee dealing with these issues, managed to allocate significantly more funds this year, not only for the functioning of institutions but also for projects. That's 780,00,000 dinars this year, plus a guarantee for 400,000 dinars of projects that can be launched this year. A total of 2.1 billion NIP dinars for Kosovo and Metohija, which will ensure a better life. The situation is, of course, difficult. I visited Osojana a month and a half ago, an enclave from which 1,000 Serbs were expelled. They returned in 2001 and today are extremely difficult to live for. We also saw problems in implementing the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme and we started, with the Coordination Centre and the Ministry, to work on the fact that the funds actually came to the users, because there were indications that there were serious problems in this domain. The case of Ossiojan is likely an example of what is happening: almost no contact with Albanians, threats, life under siege, great pressure to come to re-emigration. We were told that about 30 young people went to the rest of Serbia, to Norway, to other countries. Our policy was to answer specific questions. I can say, for example, that in Osojani, where we were a month and a half ago, an electric energy generator was purchased because there is a interruption in the exposure of electricity in Kosovo and Metohija, and there appear to be certain elements of political pressure through it. When the power goes out, then the farm doesn't even work because they need it to irrigate, and we've provided it with a few other things. Thanks to the generosity of some companies, we have provided them with both fast-track internet and satellite television, so that they can monitor state television and several other Serbian televisions. So, from the great policy, our Constitution, the various resolutions adopted in this home to the negotiating platform, the negotiations in Brussels, you saw the efforts our delegation is making to find solutions that will allow our territorial integrity not to be compromised, that those living in Kosovo and Metohija remain there, that those displaced from Kosovo and Metohija return to their hearths and ensure economic prosperity, up to the concrete actions carried out on the ground. In addition to what I just said, we will also deliver to you in writing, within what is scheduled, the plans in the 2008 budget to the team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11492	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic. The additional question, or comment, answers the question, MP Zvonko Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11493	Mr. Vice President, I must say that you and the Prime Minister do not have real information about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and what happens to people. I must say that we had a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, where you were present, where we agreed on the amount of funds, on the National Investment Plan, but I am responsible for saying: for 2006 in the central part and in the sea area of the NIP, nothing was realised. Why? Because people get the impression and opinion, and it's a dangerous thesis, that they're going to stop life, that they're waiting for the status to be defined, and only after that to be invested. That's what I want to tell you next. I asked the question: Why are Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia being punished as foreigners? By whose order, by whose order? For a traffic violation, if you don't have the money to pay, the police are taking you to an emergency procedure with a judge for a felony; if you don't have the money, they're putting you in jail. Are we strangers or citizens of the second order? Why do we pay double registrations, double fees for leaving Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia? The amount of these taxis is not the same - to go to Merdare is 1,800 dinars, to Mine 1,800, and to Končula 3,200. We're talking about what was done in the area of agriculture. Here, Mr. Minister of Agriculture is here. For the past eight years, nothing has been done, nothing has been invested from the Ministry of Agriculture in the development of agriculture in Kosovo and Metohija, and there are also respectable households and people who invest and work in agriculture. The following thing: 17,000 people worked in the economy; the government of Serbia's regulation of 1 January increased their amount of temporary compensation from 4,600 to 8,600. One month they won, it seems to me in May, so it's broken. Why? The Mitrovica-based National Employment Service, here in Central - why is it hitched? If 17,000 is multiplied by 4,000, that's 68,000,000. Apparently there's no money, and the finance minister says the budget is in surplus. You know the problem with education. The central part, the Moravian end -- at 15 schools in Kosovo and Metohija, six thousand pupils in primary and secondary education cover 30 schools. Is the government planning to open a high school center next year? Why has the education ministry department in central Kosovo and Metohija been shut down? The sports minister is not here to say whether she knows that there are 14 sports football clubs that have been in Kosovo and Metohija for eight years, and in eight years, no one has moved to help these people and children, and there are some 700-800 young people. What will the government do in the next period if it is defined to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, since eight generations of high school students and eight generations of students have come out? What are we going to do about this young man, where are the programs, where is the employment, etc? If these things that life means, part, we don't realize, and we don't seem to have any intention of realising, then we're just verbally, allegedly, behind Kosovo and Metohija and its survival in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11494	I thank the People's MP, Zvonko Stevic. The word is from the MPs of the G17 plus. Do they want to talk? No, I don't. The Democratic Party of Serbia? No, I don't. The Democratic Party? The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Here's a colleague of Vujadinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11495	Dear ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, I will ask three questions and one microeconomic question within a broader macroeconomic concept. For reasons of celery, I'll read the questions. First: Could a public debt of 9.04 billion euros in absolute, and particularly relatively, compared to a gross social product, endanger macroeconomic stability over the longer term and possibly introduce a debt crisis, according to some analysts and political parties? Second question: To what economic measures will the government and the resolution ministries, first of all the Ministry of Trade, react to the still faulty internal market and a visible high degree of monopolisation and oligopolisation? The evidence is double the trade margins, and many times less purchasing power than in developed countries, and the fact that the price of milk in our country is higher than in Montenegro. The third question, for the finance minister and vice-president of the government: What concrete measures and within what time will the government try to improve the damaged economic position and export competitiveness of net exporters, those with greater exports, caused by the arrest of dinars? In particular, can credit support be provided in the field of credit support: firstly - to provide a special line for production preparation for exports with a 3% annual interest rate and mortgage as security, without guarantees from a business bank, which costs; secondly - whether loans to non-exporters by business banks can be equated with residential loans, so that the rate is zero; thirdly, whether the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, AOFI, can increase its credit potential because the current potential is insufficient to finance the export of net exporters? And the fourth, microeconomic issue, which I've been involved in as an economic analyst. Ten days ago, the government of Divac said that Vojin Djordjevic, who owns dozens of enterprises, owes over a billion dinars or 12m euros to the state. You'll admit that it's an enormous sum and that, if true, the state is drastically damaged. That is why I want the public check on how many companies "Subotic", "Primium Liquid", "Podrum Palic" and other related persons Mr. Vojin Djordjevic owe on the name of the tax, concluded with today's day, 23.11.2007, and why so far it has not been charged, if this is true, and what will be done to make all the taxes due in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11496	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Vujadinovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11497	Thank you. I'll answer first and third, and on the microeconomic issue you'll get an answer in writing from the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. As far as the debt issue is concerned, our country, if we look at the 2000 figures, had a total foreign debt of 126 per cent of our gross domestic product. It should be recalled that the Mastricus criterion, which later turned into the Copenhagen criterion, for countries that want to enter the European Union, gives as much as 60%. So we started from a situation where, according to our national wealth, we had twice as much debt as what was acceptable to our entry into the European Union. Today, our country's total foreign debt is 60%. In other words, our debt is still high, but it is introduced into a gauge that enables us today, at least by that criterion, to enter European integration. What is more important is that if we look at one side of the public debt, or the debt where our budget has given a sovereign guarantee or, translated into Serbian, if the end-user is unable to pay, it will have to pay the Republic of Serbia's budget, it was 120% in 2000, and it fell, if we look at the figures for 2006, to less than 30%, about 28%. The projection, you will see in the 2008 Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy, which was delivered to this esteemed home with the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 Budget, a further decline in public debt participation in our gross domestic product. That's very good. How was that possible? There are three ways. First, these are negotiations with the Paris Club and the London Club that led to significant debt layoffs, on average 66%. We see that some countries, such as Germany, have already made sure on two occasions that, instead of returning our sovereign debt to Germany -- first of all 25,000,000 euros and last week, at an additional amount of 17,000,000 euros -- that we can focus on funding our country's projects. Secondly, what we did when the budget for it had space, was paid back to the IMF and a significant amount of debt to the World Bank. So the decline in public debt participation in our country's gross domestic product is good, but you're right, as long as the total debt is 60 percent, there's no room for any laxism. This is why the 2008 budget envisions not only the overall framework, but individually every loan required by the sovereign guarantee from this home. There, in no way do some who work around these projects stop their development, at least that's how they see it. However, given that our debt in total is still high, I think we should maintain a dose of discipline and that this debt home approves each time individually. For the first time, that can be negotiated at all, and that is what you have in terms of the guarantee, in the light of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the second time individually, when the proposings must come to vote and a concrete guarantee for a concrete proposal for a sovereign guarantee. I think we have a positive that's good, that our total debt gradually falls below 50%, which is the goal, you'll see, which is foreseen in the Memorandum. The second question is exporters. At the initiative of Minister Bubal, followed by the entire government, we organized the first summit of our country's exporters. I'm not gonna say "never," because I don't know, but it's probably the first one in seven years. I think the one-day gathering was very important because our leading 300 exporters exposed concrete problems. The government, on the one hand, will adopt a strategy to develop our country's exports by this time of preparation and by March next year. On the other hand, already in the 2008 budget and through the action plan, it will provide for additional measures to increase our exports. Why is exports a key element? Why, for example, did I call him the "patriotism of the 21st century in the economic sphere"? Because raising wages and pensions in a sustainable way cannot be based on anything but on the development of sales of our products and services in the world. There's no other recipe, everything else is unsustainable. We cannot develop an economy through imports, neither wages nor pensions - it is not sustainable. Nor will economic growth, which is fast with us - this year will be 7.3% and will be Europe's fastest economic growth this year. That's good news, but the bad news is that we do it by having a deficit in our exchange with the abroad of 15% of gross domestic product, which is one of the worst indicators in Europe. And not only that, the economic growth of recent years has been insignificantly ensured by the increase in consumption, either by households or by our businesses. Thus - growth needs to be maintained, but changing the sources of that growth and exports is the only real, sustainable way. What are the measures in conclusion? First, I want to say that the draft budget provides for a capitalisation of 50,000 euros. As far as state institutions are concerned, we'll see if it's celibate to connect AOFI, which is at the republican level, and Smec (SMECA), at the federal level, so that we have one institution, or we'd better specialize -- one for one job, the other for the other. In any case, you are right that state institutions were unable to guarantee export operations at a satisfactory level. Let me also say that an agreement has been reached that export credits will be treated as housing loans. At the guarantee of a state-owned credit institution signed by the exporter with a business bank, the National Bank of Serbia will respond by excluding the concrete loan from the mandatory reserve account and, in other words, will ensure that these loans are the cheapest in our country. As for the Development Fund, I will deliver to you in writing a plan for 2008, but it is certain that, on what already exists, we will strengthen the funds that will be dedicated to export. Exporters are the most qualitative part of our economy. Today we talk a lot about monopolies, about merchants. It is clear that the highest quality businessman is the one who managed to sell his own product in Germany in competition with German, Chinese, Bulgarian, Italian, American products. These are the people who deserve our greatest support and that is why I say that they do not have enough space in our economy or in our society. Hopefully, that would be one good initiative, that the export development strategy will be the subject of debate in this respected home, because, in fact, if we fail to multiply by three, to be very precise, in the euro area the amount of our exports in the next five years, our entire development and the projected rate of 7% of development will not be possible in a sustainable way. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11498	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Mr. Vujadinović has no comment. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, an SRS MP. Here you go, buddy. Excuse me, please, Alexander, since this is still a pilot project. The word has the Minister of Trade, Mr. Predrag Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11499	In 2002, a number of laws were passed in this same parliament that completely liberalised trade. These laws allow the state to influence price formation, and also, since it is an integral part of the price and margin, to form a margin. Therefore, the state has kept the control package only for the public sector, and it's very obscenity, because for oil we have the formula by which the price rises, we just approve it or not approve it, but we simply respect the laws. Of course, I don't want to say that the state in all of this has absolutely no opportunity or measure. The state showed that. This year, when it was drought, she brought in a regulation to limit the export of cereals, not with the intention of banning it, but for our population to have enough of these products, not to export everything, and then for much greater money, we have to import it during the winter. Similar measures are being prepared these days. I really have no intention of being convinced by the oilers; we've had tolerances, but I think they abuse the high protection some products have, above all oil and milk, and they make the most of what we protect manufacturers. The proposal is to find out where it is cheaper to import a certain amount without customs duty, and to note that the oil duty is 30%, just to protect the standard of citizens. When it comes to milk, the same problem is high protection. I have to respect the views of the Ministry of Agriculture, it knows what it proposes when it protects dairy producers, but I think those who are now processing milk, counting the high ransom price and their profits, use maximum protection of 20 percent and 10 dinars per litre of levamanium. Hence, our milk is more expensive in Serbia than in Montenegro, because Montenegro has no protection whatsoever. So, since you're an analyst, I told you all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11500	I thank Minister Bubal. I apologize, the word has again Dragan Vujadinovic, probably an additional question. I'd like an MP, Alexander Martinovic, to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11501	Just one sentence. Are the Republic Stock Reserves, as one market regulator by the state, as a market participant with which the state can correct free, liberal market movements set up in an adequate way and is it considered to really play that role? Like when a central bank intervenes on the foreign exchange market in order to determine the course of business banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11502	Thank you. The word again has Minister of Trade Minister Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11503	The stock reserves are not set according to this concept proposed by the MP and will never be in the function of what the National Bank has when it comes to course. It's just impossible. We have one coin and one coin to compare with. There are a number of goods here, only a certain number of goods in the stock reserves, and that's not the task of the stock reserves. However, I want to introduce into the new law on commodity reserves, which will soon be in front of this parliament, the elements of what you are up for, but it certainly will not be due to price disturbances, but, above all, because of the supply disturbances.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11504	I thank Minister Bubal. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, an SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11505	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to ask three questions to the Minister of Education. First question: What measures will the Ministry of Education take on the announcement of individual universities in Serbia that they will not respect or apply the authentic interpretation of Articles 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The law on higher education? To remind you, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia recently adopted the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education and the law is interpreted as equating to persons who, according to earlier regulations, acquired the proper calling of those titles with titles acquired under the applicable Law on Higher Education. There are announcements that individual universities in Serbia, primarily seeking to protect their financial interests, will not respect the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education. I ask the Ministry of Education to respond to the measures the Ministry of Education will take in case it really happens that individual universities refuse to apply authentic interpretation. The second question: Will the Ministry of Education prescribe the maximum amount that colleges can charge to those who demand that certain documents are issued in an appropriate procedure by the university to confirm that their calling, which was obtained after then, is equal to the titles acquired under the applicable Law on Higher Education? There are also announcements that certain universities will look to obtain extraprofit by enormously charging appropriate certificates, i.e. assurances that the persons who have acquired the calling under the earlier applicable regulations have the right to call under the current Higher Education Act. We don't think that practice would be good. If the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has given certain categories of persons certain rights, it would be wrong for universities, or universities, to prescribe astronomical figures so that citizens can use their rights. Third question: Is the Ministry of Education preparing a draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, or does it prepare a whole new law on higher education, since the existing Law on Higher Education causes many problems and misunderstandings in practice? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2005, a new, or valid Law on Higher Education and the only argument we could hear was that the then law on the University and all previous laws were not good and that we, in order to engage in alleged European integration, had to accept so-called. The Bologna Education System, which is incorporated into the current Higher Education Act. We in the SRS also claimed in 2005 and today we claim that our universities provided a huge range of knowledge. (I apologize, Mr. Mrkonjic, since it is an important issue for all students in Serbia, allow another minute. ) Our universities have always educated exceptional staff, especially in the field of natural and mathematical, technical, medical sciences and all our finished students, who finished our universities, were extremely competitive with their colleagues in the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany and other Western countries. The Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005, is an extremely dangerous experiment that can and how much to cost the state of Serbia, especially young generations. I call on the Ministry of Education to seriously consider accessing or passing a whole new law on higher education or changing this existing, catastrophically bad, Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11506	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. I suppose all questions will be forwarded to the Ministry of Education, which will be answered in writing. The word is from the People's MP Alexander Marton, from the group of Vojvodjani MPs - LSV, SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the event of the absence of a certain minister, I have just pointed out that I would ask the Minister for Infrastructure Mr Velimir Ilic, the same question I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister for the absence of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. In fact, you are likely to know, Mr Djelic, that the expert team of the Executive Council of Vojvodina has recently concluded that the AP Vojvodina should receive at least 220,000,000 euros in compensation for everything that is going on on the Horgos-Požega highway concession. The government's expert team, AP Vojvodina, estimated that Vojvodina was damaged by giving concessions to the construction of the Horgos-Pozega highway for 220,000,000 euros and we believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia must compensate for the AP Vojvodina. A team expert's statement said it was a minimum amount found and that it is realistic even by 20-25% higher than 220,000,000 euros. It is very important that the expert team has confirmed that the concession on the Horgos-Požega highway is a clear violation of the Article. 16 and 17. The concession law, since concessions were not consulted by the provincial authorities when they were awarded. The Commission has also established that the province authorities should inevitably participate in the selection process of an independent engineer, given the length of the stretch of the road passing through the AP Vojvodina. I will remind you that with the new Constitution, which you have all been up against, Vojvodina is definitely a constitutional category, very important for the functioning of the Serbian state - they have decided that this compensation should go towards the construction of the Banatian highway and the bypass around Fruska Mountain. We heard that the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Velimir Ilic, refused to make that compensation. Recently I even got a rather vague answer to the question asked him more than a month ago. I expect an answer from you, and I believe that since you are a senior official of the DS, and you have participated, along with us from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as part of the province government, in making these decisions, that it is perfectly normal for the DS to support such a thing. I expect clear answers from you, and then concrete action in the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11508	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Marton. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is an important question. What I'm not going to say will, of course, be delivered in writing by the Ministry of Infrastructure. The first thing I want to say is that this concession was repeatedly notified and voted on the appropriate acts that had to be adopted in order for such a concession to be accepted. We can say that this tall home was also familiar and that it supported this project. We saw for ourselves during the summer that there was a question about the integrity of the job, that it was well negotiated and that we had a lot to talk about. Since, representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I had a meeting with President IV of Vojvodina Mr. Bojan Pajtic last week, I think we are very close to a solution. This is what we talked about at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I expect that, within one deadline that will not last two or three weeks, we hold an appropriate meeting. You're talking about the amount that applies to a period of 30 years. In that sense, it is sevenm euros a year. I don't think that should be a more significant obstacle. As for the selection of the chief engineer, I think that only the participation of Vojvodina in monitoring the implementation of this project is very important, so we will support the participation of the province's authorities and their representatives in the further implementation of this very important project. In conclusion, let me say one more thing. The upcoming period must be the period of significant infrastructure projects. I think collectively we don't have the best answers to the questions that citizens ask us: why the Danube Bridge isn't fixed, why this project helmet, why it hasn't finished Corridor 10, which is why we are still one of the few countries in Europe that isn't connected by highways with our neighbours, and we have a geopolitical and geographical position that is of first-class importance... I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is the Ministry of Finance, you will see a reflection of this and in the 2008 Budget proposal, has the resources from the privatisation revenues to complete the job on their own. A corresponding act was adopted yesterday at the government that will allow for the proper land appraisal to be made for the 10-to-Macedonian border to be built and the relevant tenders are ready. You've seen the release into the drive of a piece of the Nis section towards Pirot, which is just a hint of what we want to do and what's been talked about. Finally, there is a financial reflection, which is that the Greek government has set 23,000,000 euros in the 2008 budget as a part of building what they are interested in. We're not talking about love here, friendship, but common interest, to build that leg to the end, from Leskovec to Macedonia. That's not all. Danube is one, I think, first-class thing for Vojvodina, a direction that is increasingly affirmed as a very important economic part of our country, and that is not only the North-South, but the East-West, from the Croatian border to the Romanian border. A very large number of investors apply there. I think we need to take this road route very seriously, to create a gauge that will support the future great economic activity that will take place there. The duchess is, to quote a few figures, part of our country where the first registered unemployment decline was last year. That'll happen again this year. And that's good. There is a large amount of investment in Vojvodina. We must, bearing in mind what, on the one hand, should be an incentive for those who are going the fastest, and on the other hand, the necessary solidarity in our country, because the highway towards Pozega is also a placement of the Vojvodina products in Šumadia, in central Serbia (our solidarity should not be seen closely through several figures, but much wider) in the future, allowing Vojvodina to be the region of our country, which is most likely to make the fastest progress, to propose a law on even regional development that will ensure that other parts of our country progress at about the same speed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11510	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, and I abuse the Rules of Procedure, personally support all this that the Vice President has said about Corridor 10. I remind you that it exists in our country and Corridor 7, that is the Danube, which you must also pay attention to. Is Ambassador Marton pleased? Thank you. Dr Rajko Djuric, MP of the Minority Group – SVM-LZS-URS-CAPD. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11511	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11512	I'm sorry, Mr. Djuric, we agreed there was no Rules of Procedure and there was no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11513	Please, I'm forced because there's a doctor among us, and I'm alone, so I'm sorry to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11514	Okay, here, I'll break the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11515	I studied ethics and, in the name of humanity and ethics, I must say, we must safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly. The National Assembly of our citizens must not turn into a diagnostic center. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I am publicly protesting Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, who is not only an MP, but also a vice-president of the National Assembly, because her public statement goes beyond everything. I am not Mr. Boris Tadic's lawyer, nor does Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's lawyer, but I do not hide my beliefs. I think what's said goes beyond measure. We have prominent doctors here...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11516	Please, Mr. Guric, don't be angry, no one's got a word for the Rules of Procedure, please stop. If you have any parliamentary questions, ask them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11517	If you insist, I'll hang up. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11518	Thank you very much. Now let's give a word to Businessman Alexander Martinovic, but that's the end of it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Rajko Djuric has injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. People's MPs and how they have the right to know the health status of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic is no ordinary citizen. The President of the Republic has significant powers under the Constitution and the law. The President of the Republic is one of the external policies of the Republic of Serbia. There are very uncertain negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status. Under the Constitution, the President of the Republic has significant powers in connection with military command, with a defence system. One serious question arises: Can the President of the Republic, if his health is considered, properly perform his duties? The point of Miss Natasa Jovanovic's question is: What if the President of the Republic, in a state of health crisis, mental or physical, makes a decision or signs a particular document that can have inexplicably harmful consequences for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens? What if someone pushes him, in such a state, to sign that the Republic of Serbia renounces sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija? Then it will be too late for you to justify yourself, you from the ruling coalition, that the President of the Republic was unaware of what he was doing, that he could not manage his actions. The state of health of any public figure, especially those performing the highest function in the country, must not be a secret to the citizens of Serbia. It's an elemental principle, from a simple law, that a man can't get a job if he doesn't have the right health skills. And you're asking the National Assembly to keep quiet about the state of health of the President of the Republic, whose responsibility is the authority to run a state ten times greater than an ordinary citizen. The National Assembly must know whether the President of the Republic is in such a state of health that he can respond to his obligations or not. It can't be a secret. In particular, Mr. Djuric, it is not clear to me why you are being called because Miss Natasa Jovanovic, in a very cultural, civilized way, is asking the question of the health status of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11520	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. It's LDP's turn. I'm sorry, first of all, Mr. Djelic, the Deputy Prime Minister has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11521	I was with Boris Tadic last night. He's as healthy as a drain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11522	Thank you very much. It's LDP's turn, Mr. Ivan Andric. Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11523	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. (Please ask the Deputy Prime Minister not to throw it to me. I have two questions. The first question is for Mr. Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. I would ask him to answer because it is very important, and Mr. Vladan Batic has already asked that question. So, during the police action, the Network, which was led against cigarette smugglers between '96. And in 2000, several groups were processed by this action, most groups were processed -- we even saw the epilogue of one process, the other day, against Stanko Subotic Canet -- but two groups did not. There's a group called Delta. Our question is, why? The second is Mr. Stoicic's group, the brother of that famous head of public security, Badge, who died in the '90s. We understand why the group around the company "Delta" has not been processed, according to which we have also filed criminal charges for criminal association, it is one of the items being processed in that application. But our question is: Did you, Mr. Djelic, in any way affect that this Mr. Stojic is not being led by any further police action because you have any business relationship with him or do you still have them? I think it's very important that we hear the answer to that question. The second question is for Mr. Bubal. (Mr. Gristle, please warn Mr. Djelic not to throw it at me. Look, this is the Deputy Prime Minister. (President: Please, Mr. Andric, concentrate on the subject. You have to be serious people. Mr. Bubalo, our question is: Do you have any business relationship with Delta at this point? I'll explain the question. According to the information we own, which is all public, it's not a secret -- I'm sure you know what it's all about, you don't have to write -- in 2007, a contract was signed on the sale of a salary in kickinda to build a Delta Maxi, with a company called Agrotechna, whose property was the place where one of these monopoly facilities was built by Delta. According to the information we have, your wife owned 36% of the company's shares, and you, despite being a government minister, were the chairman of the supervisory board at the firm. That's why we ask you: Do you still have any business relations that affect the Delta Company's public defense against some government institutions? I'll quote what I mean when I say you're defending the Delta Company. "What else can a man think when Minister Bubalo publicly says "Delta doesn't have a monopoly position." That's what you said in the middle of the process before the Supreme Court, when one of the decisions we spoke with Mr Milosavljevic was brought down. I'm sure he'll have a comment, so I think this is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11524	I thank Mr. Ivan Andric. The word is Mr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Trade in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Bubalo. I ask the messengers to maintain the dignity of the assembly. We called the government, people came and we need to speak to them properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11525	Most of all, I like it when it's an exact question. Since I joined the government in 2004, I have no office on any board of directors, no board of directors, and it has been my duty since such a law was passed. I was on two boards, but not where you mentioned it, and that's where I resigned. And today I'm a member of two boards of directors, but under the law, it's foreseen by the law of this congregation. As for my statements about the Delta Monopolies, at least one million times -- you quote someone, it's from a third hand -- at least a million times I've said and said it again, and the latest interview in Blica is to be extremely happy to determine all possible monopolies in the state of Serbia. I don't determine monopolies, and I don't accept that those who go out for someone feel talking about the monopoly. We simply have a law, we have a body to deal with, and I exclusively trust what is done in this way and in the established procedure of the institutions. So, don't quote five of them, I was at the polygraph, I've been on a lot of shows, who knows where he's taking it. Otherwise, Agrotechna has sold the salary and there is the beginning and end of all possible relationships, because it is a buy-out relationship, in one transaction ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11526	I thank Mr. Bubal. Here you go, Mr. Andric. Just don't get nervous, we'll get there, you're a young, patient man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11527	Thank you, Mr. Bubalo, for confirming this. We'll take these transcripts. So you confirmed that Agrotechna, which was your family's property, had a business relationship, according to the contract we have, was on January 3rd this year. We don't think it's good for government ministers to do business with Delta, and then defend it against the Competition Protection Commission. That's exactly what our political struggle is about. I would use the right once more to call Mr. Djelic to answer our question. This is the third time I've set it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11528	I thank Mr. Andric. The word is from Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11529	I'm not affecting any organs. If you think I should go for it, go for it. Bring all the evidence, and, brother, criminal charges, go to court, and we'll see. That's what I said to Batic. As for cigarette smuggling, I became Minister of Finance when 80% of the cigarettes were smuggled. Today is one of the lowest in Europe. I was the chairman of the commission who privatised DIN and the tobacco industry Vranje, it was done without any problem, in an extremely transparent way, and we got the best prices in the whole region. That made sure we have a very strong industry today and no one can give me any lessons about it. I don't intend to go out on every LDP idea and try to defend myself. I have nothing unclean on my conscience. My hands are clean. There's no shadow in my biography. If you think I've broken the law-- criminal charges and I'll see you in court. And I certainly won't call for immunity. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11530	I thank Mr. Djelic. Excuse me, do you have a comment? Here you go. Here you go. No Rules of Procedure, don't. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11531	It's just that sometimes it confuses me, Mr. Grouchy, which some people have the right to do in their own business, and some people don't. Mr. Djelic, please do not humiliate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To our question, "What were your relations or were they still with Mr. Stojich? "Don't tell us about the preamble of the Constitution, don't tell us some floscules about I don't know what. The question is very specific. Mr. Bubalo specifically answered the question. Come out and tell us. We have reasonable doubts as to what your business relations with Mr. Stojcic are. We, Mr. Djelic, have filed a criminal complaint against you. We now ask you, you have come to answer before the MPs. You can't be so boastful that you throw me as I speak, I've kept my mouth shut. I ask you a specific question - I don't expect you to answer, you can't say it - you can call people at night at six o'clock and then manipulate their statements. It's your manners. Come out or don't come out. We ask you, if it were not for all of us, MPs, we do not understand what this is about: What were your business relationships, or were your business relationships - we do not know - with Mr Stojic, who is one of the two groups that has not been processed for cigarette smuggling? The second is "Delta," that's clear to us -- you've opened "Delta Siti." We're asking you what are the links to Stoic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11532	I thank the MP Ivan Andric. The word has a folk MP for the SPS, Dr Bojan Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11533	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, as they say in my area, descend a little to the level of local self-government, see what we live on, and ask a few questions in that context. If we don't get to sleep, I'll ask him a few questions. First question: When will the spatial plan of the area of special purpose be adopted - Kopalnik National Park and Golia Nature Park? I would remind the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to join and draw up the plan was concluded in 2002, that in 2005, the plan was under review in local self-governments that had, above all, an interest in adopting this plan, that the reason for its lack of strategic assessment of the impact of the spatial plan on the environment. In the meantime, it's done. Here, from 2002 to 2007 there are still no plans. I remind you that the spatial plan is a condition for the adoption of lower plans, which are a condition for these national parks to be built. The question is: When will they be brought in and why have they not so far? Another question: Why is the highest level of protection, banning and restrictions solely related to territories where the strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia provides for the highest investment? We in Raška, Ivanjica, Novi Pazar, the King and how we have an interest in reaching an adequate plan that is vital to us. A few more questions, which may be more addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure, I don't know who to ask these questions to, but they're in a strict correlation with all these questions that are being asked. Who's in charge of giving up other construction land in state property to rent on the territory of national parks? I'll remind you, we were just talking about whether the government and ministers respected the Constitution. I'll tell you, Article 190 is point 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the municipality regulates and secures the use of construction land, including those located in national parks. Article 81(4) The law on planning and construction is prescribed that the procedure, conditions, way, as well as the programme of lending other undeveloped building land in the state property is governed by the municipality. Article 10(1), point 3. The law on national parks is prescribed that the national park rents land, but not construction, and buildings to which it manages. Why does this matter? We come into a situation where the Kopalnik National Park takes the authority of the Rask municipality, and only where it is interested in building, and what is the income of the local budget. If you can answer me these few questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11534	I thank Ambassador Bojan Milovanovic. The word has the Minister of Ecology in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Dr Sasa Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11535	The Honored Chairman, honourable MPs, the development of a single society is, among other things, shown by the attitude towards the environment, to nature, to national parks and to good protected nature. In our country, there are about ten percent of the territory that is protected by law, which is treated as a nature protected by the state and on which no one can do anything they want. When this administration started working, we encountered a major problem of illegal construction in national parks. We're determined to fight it, whether it's a local power man or a wider power man, in the interest of having a cottage out there somewhere. We've got big problems on Uvac, the Bath, the Frusch Mountain, the Old Mountain. We hope that in our further work we will succeed together with the ministry responsible for this, which is the Ministry of Infrastructure, to deal with these major problems. It is very important to note that there are more levels of environmental protection, that is, nature. In the first degree of protection, man's influence is not allowed. It's the degree of protection where endemic species live, which are really specific to that area, and where man's influence could irrevocably damage the environment, and then there's nothing more we can do to get it back. Every year, the world is destroyed or disappeared in some other way, a large number of living species. We have to try to be one of those peoples, those nations that don't let anything like that happen. As for plans for construction in certain areas, including national parks, it is within the authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In the previous administration, the then Environmental Protection Administration was not invited to meetings. Unfortunately, that trend continued in this administration as well. We insist that, in the follow-up to spatial plans, the Ministry of Environmental Protection must play an important role, first of all, in preparing a study on environmental impact assessment when needed, and in the area of national parks it is really necessary. I can say that we have good co-operation with the Ministry of Economy and Minister Dinkic, and that no trail, any ski resort, will be built by disembarking the forest, let's just say, the smurf that exists only in Kopalnik, or, let's say, the Old Mountain. As much as it is in the interest of any local self-government, there are ways to overcome these problems. It doesn't have to go that way, it can go the other way. We're working well on it. We found a solution to build artificial lakes in the bath, to make artificial snow. We found a solution to the problem, let's say, the deep two trails that were going through the protected zone. We'll find other problems to solve. The problem is that in this country, in previous times, people first agreed where they were going to build something, and then they asked if it would have any effect on the environment. I'd like to remind you that, say, the National Park of Fruska Mountain passes the highway. It's nowhere in the world. We have a situation to exploit ore-richness in the National Park of Fruška Gora, and it seems inconceivable to this national park. We have problems with wild construction in many places. I need the strength and help of all institutions, including this parliament, to deal with these problems. You've done a very good job of apostrophe. The environment ministry will do so in such a way as not to endanger the country's economic interest or local self-government, but not to endanger, at any cost, the living world there, especially protected species. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11536	I thank Minister Dragin. The word is from MP Bojan Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11537	Thank you. A few comments on what Mr. Minister said. The essence of all of this is exactly what the minister tried to explain, and in this respect the interests of the local environment and the ministry do not differ at all. I will remind myself that the plan for detailed regulation of the tourist centre and the Kopalnik National Park was done precisely to stop wild construction. It's one of the few joint jobs that the Dosovo government started working together with local self-government in 2003. The minister was Mr. Dragoslav Šumarac, otherwise Rascanin. I'm going to remind you that this plan has seen this whole, this space, and I'd call it a recovery plan. We were supposed to, in accordance with that plan, go redefine something on the Bath. It's been four years since that year, and we haven't been able to implement any of that plan. What's very important, we'll meet up with the same problems all the time. It is not true that this section of the security guard was excluded from the public debate. I've had several occasions, over the past few years, to cross-referencing, to say, spears at the Office of Spatial Planning, but we failed. Here's the thing, Mr. Minister. I asked specific questions, and you told me about the ski trails. I've been focusing on what's called city building land inside the national park. The municipality has narrowed the area by its decision and has the authority to operate in accordance with positive legal regulations. Why can't the gentlemen who work in the interest, first of all, the government and this state find no common interest? Today we are in a situation where only a man is unprotected in the Bath. The villages of the sub-region are gone -- there are gentlemen here from Bruce and from the sub-sponsor villages -- there are no people up there. We were talking about ski resorts here. It's not just a ski resort that interests the national park. The national park is what we need to build and what that local environment should live on. No one's potential, I'm just saying let's sit down once and stop something that's been going on for five years. It's taken us five years to come up with a plan. I think it's already devastating and we're getting into a situation where that most profitable part of our community is at this point the ballast of the Rask municipality. Maybe it's an ugly word, but, specifically, we're in charge of sending up garbage occasionally, taking out garbage, if we're able, and going back down. We don't have any authority. One more question. I'm sorry there's no one here from the Department of Infrastructure. Again, I ask the question: Who is responsible for the issue of construction land within the national park? Who, the Department of Infrastructure? No, I mean local self-government, that's what the Constitution says. This is the basic jurisdiction arising from the Constitution. If there are no adequate answers already, Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask the competent ministry to answer, because this is not just a matter of MPs, but a question of those people whose interests I represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11538	I thank MP Bojan Milovanovic. You'll probably get a written answer to these questions. Do MPs G17 plus want to ask questions? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs of the DSS - NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica want to ask a question? No, I don't. Do the DS MPs want to ask a question? Here you go, colleague. National MP Daniela Gavrilović-Lovrin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11539	Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers, my question is for the government, first of all for the Ministry of Health: When will the Ministry of Health take concrete measures to amend the legal rules to increase the remuneration of those who suffer from malignancies and those who are on the maintenance of pregnancy? The DS Parliament Club believes that the current legal solution, by which these people receive 65% of their salary, is not good, that these are small funds for people in this situation, and I would like to get a written response when the Ministry of Health will take concrete measures to ensure better living conditions for these persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11540	I thank Parliamentarian Lovrin-Gavrilovic Danieli. The word is from the People's MP of the SRS, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11541	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, few ministers, the SRS is very concerned about the extremely serious and, I would say, the dramatic state of the country. In a situation like this, which I do not wish to elaborate on now because all citizens know that all the problems are currently pressing on our country, and certainly the biggest problem is resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, we, on the one hand, have a very irresponsible and harmful government of Vojislav Kostunica. How irresponsible the speeches and the fact that only two or three ministers came to face the MPs today, of course, without the Prime Minister, whose place was here anyway. On the other hand, we have the president of the state of Mr. Boris Tadic, who, unfortunately, Mr. Djelic, although you tried to run here to say that he is as healthy as a drone, according to the data that exists on VMA, is seriously ill. That's what the SRS is more worried about. The question has not been addressed to you, Mr Djelic, but we ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica, as Prime Minister, that is, we recommend that he inform himself at the Military Academy what this is really about because, according to our knowledge, it is a disease that can and can affect decision-making. Of course, it's very embarrassing to talk about. We regret that it is so, but Boris Tadic is simply the president of the state and he must, as a public figure, suffer even this part that, of course, we would not speak or mention to an ordinary man. Regarding what Mr. Dragan Todorovic spoke earlier today about the violation of the Constitution of Boris Tadic, he may have done it on purpose, but it may also be the result of the nature of his illness, the man simply forgot that he had received some documents from the former President of the Constitutional Court in due time. This is particularly problematic in light of the negotiations on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, because we think that Mr Boris Tadic, in view of his health condition, is not able, must not be allowed to negotiate on behalf of Serbia, especially no, don't God give him something to sign. You see for yourself, this is what Serbian citizens also notice, that it appears daily with some strange comments about Kosovo and Metohija. It mentions some Holland Islands, for which 90% of Serbian citizens have never heard of it, and a story about a football team in Kosovo. So it is obvious that the data that we have come to is accurate and this is shown by Mr Boris Tadic in his daily appearance. My question is, that is, once again to Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, to find out what it is, to take responsibility for the state and, unfortunately, we must accept the fact that Mr. Boris Tadic, here, I feel sorry for him as a man, but simply with that disease cannot be the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11542	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. Vojvodjani MPs LSV-SVM, MP to the people, Mr Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11543	Thank you very much, Mr. Grouchy. If you'll excuse me, just one comment. It's my impression that this assembly wouldn't have done much if it wasn't for your presidency. This is what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11544	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11545	I see the Ministers are getting used to it, these chairs haven't been worked out long ago, but here, I'll be quick to say what I wanted to ask. One question for the government: When was the last time the government of the Republic of Serbia held a session on the agenda to consider the situation in our railway? Namely, what's this about? After the debate we had in this home, about the loan of the European Bank to improve the conditions in our rail traffic, I went to see, after all those praises on the control of our railways by Mr Velimir Ilic, what does it really look like? The train station in Backo Topoli is only due to the tooth of time different from the one the late Empress Maria left behind when she built it. The train trip through Serbia, in the second class, with the people, does not remind them of those films where directors tried to imagine what it looked like in the beginning of the last century, but rather the worst thing I've ever seen. What's this about? The fact that trains are late and they don't arrive on time, it's a habit, it happens in other countries, but it's terrible how those cars look, how much dirt there is and where this country makes its citizens sit and what they drive to. I have a proposal, and I don't think there's any reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia won't accept it, that the MPs of this assembly and the members of the government together go for a ride with another class and see what our railways provide to our citizens. Another proposal is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides the means to clean up a wagon -- if it can't, here, we MPs will raise money -- so together we can clear that one car for example, to show what it should look like. I understand that money is needed for the purchase of new wagons, that it takes the power of money to repair these railways and infrastructures, but, brother dear, for a bucket of water, for a fishbrush and for a handful of powder, it doesn't take that much money. I think it's something else, first of all, and the fact that we've had a jaundice premium on what can come out of those cars, as far as the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11546	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Radovanovic. I suppose the question will be forwarded and the answer delivered in writing. The Union of Duke Hungarians, the Sandzak List, the Union of Roma, is there any questions? No, there isn't. Thank you. LDP, any questions? No, there isn't. The SPS? MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, I have three questions for you. First question: Will the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia also accept a proposal from the Association of Military Disabilities of Serbia to address the housing needs of some 1,500 wartime military people and members of the families of fallen fighters? Our proposal allows the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through joint investment with local self-government and the Ministry of Finance's commitment, to address the population's housing problems over the next two or three years. In the current way of solving this problem, which the Government has prescribed, we will not solve it in the next 15 years. I think this is a good proposal that supported over 50 local self-governments, as well as the city of Belgrade, and participate in this action. I hope the government will find time to discuss this matter soon. When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia begin to implement the 1998 contract on the granting of 800 apartments to the Ministry of Defence in exchange for a building in Germany no. Nine? I must say, although the contract provided for the government of the Republic of Serbia to single out 100 apartments each year, none has been singled out so far. Also, when will the Ministry of Defence realize the obligation to provide apartments for 37 heavy military disableds, which is resolved by priority and off the ranking list? That's the first question, with questions, since it's one area. Second question: When will the defence minister stop breaking the constitution, and Articles 2, 8, 99, Position 5, 139, 200 and 201, making his personal position and position as his political party that the Serbian Army will not defend Kosovo's territory even in the event of a unilateral declaration of independence without a United Nations decision? Namely, these members of the constitution clearly foresee that the military's competence in the engagement has exclusively the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it has made no decision that the military will not participate in the defence of the interests of the Serb people. The third question is for Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government. He knows the question, but he did not answer: When will the register of the Association of Citizens and NGOs be taken over by the Ministry of the Interior and led completely within the framework of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government? Why am I telling you this? There are organisations that have hundreds of municipal organisations in their membership and, since their records are kept in two places, and the decision-making and implementation procedures apply to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, they differ significantly. This creates many difficulties for us, who run organisations on a republican level, because the decision-making of lower bodies, such as municipal organisations, is impossible by two different laws. There's something else I need to tell you. The Constitutional Court is based on a verdict...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11548	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. You've been over it for a minute. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11549	I'll provide you with accurate information concerning that category of military personnel. Let me present a few elements concerning the housing situation in the military. The budget for next year envisions a record amount for Serbia-Montenegro's 2.4% gross domestic product, and now that the military is no longer at that former federal level, at Serbia-Montenegro level, it is a republican institution, we are entering into harmonisation of certain rights and former members of the armed forces. On the one hand, it's a coordination in the pension system, which is the rights of our citizens. On the other hand, with the same expertise and the same experience, members of the armed forces had a slightly weaker material position than members of the Ministry of the Interior and the question is how to measure it. Certain progress has already been made and all will agree, including the MUP, that there was a need for some harmonisation. As for the housing issue, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a programme of billions of dinars of subsidies to obtain housing loans for members of the armed forces. It is the largest amount ever achieved by democratic changes. We expect to be able to solve several hundred housing problems. You're right, it's far from what it takes, but I think it's a significant first step. You're also right, in a previous session, during the government of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, and I participated in a deal between the government and the army on the facility in Germany, which, as all citizens can see, is quite quickly ending. On the other hand, the soldiers rightly say, "Well, that has been done, it has been handed over, and where are the dwellings?" These billions of dinars are the first step in solving these problems. This is not the end, I expect that in the years that come we will show the priority that we give to an institution, which is not only a cost but is an investment in our future, because safety is a prerequisite for normal economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11550	I thank Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the state administration minister and local self-government Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11551	Mr. Vasiljevic, you're absolutely right. For many years now, virtually out of two legal regulations, one since 1982, the second since 1990, associations of citizens and social organisations, which today formally exist as social organisations, are headed to two different registers: one in the Ministry of the Interior, the other in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. It's, of course, an unsustainable condition. We have about 13,200 social organisations and other forms of association of citizens, and we really have no information about how many are being led in the Ministry of the Interior. That's why we're the new Association Act, which we've been trying to pass since 2000, and we're finally going to bring it in, predicting that the entire register is being run in the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government. We also predict that this is very important because of an organization whose name you step forward, that re-registration will be released from all administrative costs. So the state takes over the full re-registration cost. All forms will be available, all logistics assistance will be provided in order for the re-registration process to take place in a way that at least threatens existing social organisations and future citizens' associations. The Association Act is here in the procedure and, as soon as adopted by the National Assembly, a re-registration and download of the entire register from the Ministry of the Interior into our registry will be carried out as soon as possible. We wanted to inform you that appropriate preparations concerning future registration have been made, so that it will be what is called a trust at this point, i.e. the segment of that one trust, so I would say, the most modern way of communicating with the ministry. I expect that our citizens in the future will exercise their right to join to a greater extent than they are now, more freely than they have done so far, and I assume you agree with me, to the general satisfaction of both the states and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11552	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11553	First, I will tell Mr. Milan Markovic that I am completely satisfied with his answers. The efficiency of his ministry in the process of keeping this record, in the process of giving a solution to the organisation, is far greater than the interior ministry. That is why my initiative is to speed up this procedure, to take over the Home Office Registry as soon as possible, which is very inefficient in this area, probably because it no longer sees its jurisdiction in this matter, so it wants to get rid of the job as soon as possible. To us who run a number of organizations with many municipal organizations, it creates almost impregnable problems. Now, Mr. Djelic, just one explanation. You have been talking here mostly about addressing the housing needs of active military personnel, or members of the Serbian Army. In my speech, however, I apostrophed 1,500 wartime wartime people and members of the families of fallen fighters who were not professional soldiers at the time of their death. The problem of resolving their housing issues is far more difficult than the defence ministry's problems because care for them has been transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Unfortunately, this ministry has no power, no legal instruments to deal with these problems. As a result, the Association of Military Disabilities, which, based on experience in what has been going on for the past 15 years in this area, claims that, according to this dynamic, it takes over a hundred years for these 1,500 people to solve the problem, suggested that local self-government would provide infrastructure and construction land freed from all giving, that military disabled, or housing users, would bear the cost of building apartments and that the state of Serbia would assume the obligation to pay interest on loans that these persons would take. According to our assessment, it would be an obligation, about, like, a million and a half euros a year for the state, with the state obliged to find a financial institution to lend this building. This means that this population would get apartments worth 300 to 400 euros per square metre and in the next 20 years, and the state would have an obligation to provide a financial institution and to bear interest costs. We are convinced that with this action this population will in two to three years absolutely meet all its needs for apartments and that this is indeed the only way to solve this problem. We think that the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Ilic and Mr. Lalovic, who in 2006 promised that each year the state would allocate between four and five million euros to solve housing problems, in these political circumstances is not possible and I want you to give me a public answer here whether you will advocate that this project will live, whether the government will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11554	I thank Ambassador Vasiljevic. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11555	What I'm trying to say is that this question is familiar, and we've already discussed it. Two elements are there. First of all, you know that the government passed a draft social housing bill. That bill will be found in front of the Assembly, I hope, very quickly -- he's already in the process. So, if I may suggest, look at this law, it seems to me that this place is one of those programs. As for the financial structure, I think we have a number of sensitive social groups to find a solution. Our country, if you look at next year's budget law, has more resources to solve these problems as well. I don't want to make a public promise that we'll settle this next year, but I am publicly committed and I suggest that, since you've obviously worked out the whole concept, to forward it to me and Minister Ljajic, we'll consider it and invite you to a discussion to see what kind of mechanisms they are. I urge you to take a look at the social housing law, put it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11556	I would like to thank Vice President Djelic and the ministers for participating in the session's afternoon work. Resume session is at 15.00 hours. I invite the heads of parliament to meet with President Dulic immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I'm informing the National Assembly that it'll be working after 6:00 p.m. until the end of this agenda. The word is from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, from the SRS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry to have to go back to the questions asked by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic and Mrs. Verica Radeta, but I am provoked by Mr. Rajko Djuric's appearance and I am sorry that he is not here right now. Namely, the health status of any state official cannot be a private matter, it must be a public matter and the citizens of Serbia must know the health status of each of the people who run this country. We're not talking about this because it makes us happy if that's what we're talking about. On the contrary, we are sorry if that is the case, but the citizens of Serbia must know and, of course, that together with all of us, they are concerned if that information is correct. I must remind all of you here that Serbia is currently in a difficult situation, that these negotiations on the status of Kosovo and Metohija are being held, in the future, God forbid no president has such responsibility, the responsibility of this kind that today is the current president of Serbia. That is why it is very important that Serbian citizens know what kind of health problems Serbian President is talking about and whether this can possibly affect the negotiations that Serbia is currently in. I must also remind Mr. Djuric, perhaps he has not followed the events on Serbia's political scene in the past seven years, that the president of the so-called democratic government, Mr. Djindjic, has conducted all members of the government in 2001 for medical examinations. Some of today's ministers know that because they were ministers back then, in that government. It was an idea, and the idea is in place, that all members of the government go through these health checks and that Serbia's public knows who will lead Serbia in the coming period. Unfortunately, these medical reports on the health status of then-ministers never arrived in front of this assembly or the public of Serbia. I have also changed the character of my question and have joined what Miss Natasa Jovanovic and Verica Radeta said. So my question is the same as theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11559	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's be correct about the agenda we tried to organise -- to ask questions from the authority of the Prime Minister and the Minister and to get answers to them. You asked the prime minister, the question was asked by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, and then it was asked by Mrs. Vjerica Radeta, which is now being asked by you. The answer to that question will come. I ask you to respect the dignity of the pay phone you stand for and the dignity of the National Assembly when you ask questions concerning the health situation, which is absolutely a private matter. You will receive an answer to the parliamentary question within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure. I am now asking you to ask questions that are from the authority of the Prime Minister, or the ministries. The next on the agenda is the SPS parliamentary group. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic appears for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11560	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a direct question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to Minister Velimir Ilic. I'll give you a brief opening statement. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Republika Srpska agreed to build a bridge on the Drina River between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, between the municipality of Ljubovija and Bratunc. Specific arrangements were conducted by Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of infrastructure, and Nedjeljko Cubrilovic, the minister of traffic and ties of Republika Srpska. From that moment to today, the situation was recorded, then geology, hydraulic budget was carried out and, by the CIP, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, a contract was concluded on the design of the project. A general project has been carried out so far and has been forwarded to the Republic Audit Committee for evaluation. However, the assessment will be negative for one reason so far, as the Republic of Serbia has not signed an interstate agreement with the Republika Srpska, but this will likely require the agreement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that the municipalities had their part of the obligations, the development of the general plan, i.e. the changes and additions, the Municipality of Ljubovija joined the changes and additions of the general plan and the plan of detailed regulation for the place where the bridge would be built. In order to avoid some political manipulations that are now circulating -- that the reason is that the municipalities of Bratunac and Ljubovija are late with some documentation -- I want here specifically to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Resor. Since we have already officially written and referred to the emergency, I am now asking in particular: When will the government, or the resolution ministry, or the state of Serbia, sign an interstate agreement on the construction of a bridge on the Drina River between Love and Bratunc, in order to access the creation of an urban act, granting approval and designing an idea and main project? The second question concerns the Ministry of Health. Regulation No 42 of 2006 provided for a plan for a network of health institutions. In 2007, it was announced that this regulation would suffer certain changes. According to that regulation, in the Mačvanska district, meaning as planned, the House of Health of Love is included with the stationary. The Director, i.e. the Management Board of our Home of Health, sent a letter to the Ministry of Health asking that, given that we had a maternity home, that we also had technical and personnel conditions, the existing regulation changes in the work in the matter of a network of medical institutions of the Mačvanski County, that instead of "Home Health of Love with a Station" "Home of Health Love with a Stationary and Neighbourhood of the Capacity of 30 Places". Is this change possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11561	Thank you. Group G17 plus - no questions asked. The Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia -- Nova Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- has no questions. Democratic Party MP group? The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11562	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to inform Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Holding "Vojin Popovic" in Novi Pazar, who has been in bankruptcy for a long time. There is documentation that this company has been illegally brought into bankruptcy and I want to point out how important it is for the municipality of Novi Pazar. First of all, almost all companies in Novi Pazar went bankrupt, workers lost their shares, no social compensation, about 24,000 workers are at the unemployment office, and most of them are workers who have lost their jobs in the bankruptcy process. Workers of Vojin Popovic have been on hunger strike for eight months. They are completely neglected by those who are competent to react in this situation. A private security guard tried to kick them out on October 5th, and only when the hunger strikers there poured gasoline, did the workers of that security leave that place. And today, workers strike hunger, the media doesn't follow them, local self-government doesn't follow and no state institution has responded in this case. I have here complete documentation, which I wanted to share with the audience, which precisely shows that the company went bankrupt. I have a memo to the Privatisation and Application Committee on behalf of all these workers that Mr. Djelic and Minister of Economy Mr. Dinkic are receiving a delegation, and my first question is: When can they receive a delegation from the company's representative, Vojin Popovic, and their legal representatives? The second issue is on behalf of the association of citizens keeping track of how many vehicles there are in Serbia with Montenegrin plates registered until Serbia-Montenegro is separated. The question is: Will it be allowed to register in Serbia vehicles imported while Serbia-Montenegro was in the common state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11563	Thank you. In front of the SRS parliamentary club, the word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11564	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope Minister Bubalo returns, as I refer my first question to him, and it is about the adoption of a new law on the protection of competition. I wonder if it is true that the Government predicts that a new law on the protection of competition is the choice of members of the Council and the president of this institution in the same way as the members of the State Auditing Institution were elected, which will, in fact, come to the conclusion that the ruling majority choose their members of this council, so that any kind of independence will really not be able to talk. A second question would be asked by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who spoke today about the European Union's desire for peace, that it wants to expand and that it is something good for Serbia. I would ask the question: Does the EU want peace in Kosovo, or peace in the Republic of Serbia, with its commitments to exempt Kosovo and Metohija from the composition of Serbia, which make foreign ministers the greatest forces of the European Union? Also, does the European Union's desire to expand to a number of countries mean that the EU wants to kidnap Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija, so that more members would enter its composition, since we believe that the EU is now focusing entirely contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia? After all, the questions raised by my health colleagues, Boris Tadic, were not malicious. As you have had the opportunity to see, in a large number of democratic countries of the world, and you often call on, for example, the United States, the American President has an obligation to elaborate and present his health to the public. This report contains the widest possible range of questions and answers, such as: hearing, vision, previous injuries, even indicating its weight, height, condition regarding allergies, spinal state, heart condition, blood vessels, whether it is taking any drugs, vitamins, whether it smokes cigarettes, consumes alcohol. They even say that the president of the United States occasionally hurts his back. It is the essence of this question, not to be mocked or hurted, but precisely for the reason that it is available to the public, that every citizen can get to know it. And it's not just about the President of the Republic. Personally, I think that in the future every MP, every minister, every public office holder should submit a report on his health and be a normal civilised practice, to see if this man, in the moments coming for Serbia, will eventually, even in the most regular situation, be able to carry out his mandate in the way we think he should do it in the interests of all citizens. That's the question I'm referring to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11565	Thank you. Does the SPS parliamentary group still have any questions? Yeah. ) National MP Svetlana Kitić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11566	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, ministers, I have two questions. I'm glad you're here because the Minister of Sports isn't here. First question: How does the Ministry of Sports, or the Government of Serbia, protect our clubs that do not agree to play with Shiptarian clubs? We witnessed, in January of this year, the RC "Kikinda" refused to play against the RC "Intruders" and was punished with a year of non-playing, and neither the Ministry nor the government stepped in its defence. Since we athletes, with our competitions, defend our country and the integrity of our country, ask: What will the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to protect our clubs, not to be punished by international sports organisations? As for the second question, Mr. Cvetkovic, maybe I'll be a little boring, we'll talk about our babies again, and I'll ask you again, "Why hasn't it been lifted yet, or at least reduced, the VAT on equipment and baby food?" I'm a mother of three, I often travel and I witness that many products are far more expensive here than, say, in Italy, Germany and Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11567	Thank you. The word has a Minister Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11568	I'd like to give an answer and comment on the VAT issue of baby equipment. It seems to me that here, in fact, there are very often two important issues involved. One question is population policy, which implies a whole series of activities and measures to encourage, on the one hand, the birth of children and, on the other hand, to financially support those who decide to take that step, to make it easier for them. So that's the goal that really stands before our country. On the other hand, requirements for the removal of VAT on child equipment appear and this issue is equated with this first one. In the Ministry of Finance, analysis has been made with a desire to determine whether it is true that removing VAT on baby equipment would really lead to an increase in the birth rate and improvement in the position of parents and we concluded that this is not the case. We came to that conclusion by comparing the measures that other countries in this same respect were taking to increase the birth rate and it turned out that out of such a measure, which would be linearly applied to all, the most useful, practically, those dealing with importing these equipment, or with production and trade, which would hardly wait, and who were behind this idea of reducing VAT and strongly supporting it. The government of the Republic of Serbia, based on an initiative already launched several months ago, considered the issue and came to the conclusion that the issue of population policy is one of the national goals and interests. The finance ministry has participated one of its analyses, which discussed a whole series of measures in the domain, with only the removal of VAT not having the capacity to solve the problem. For this reason, I ask the MPs to concentrate and make proposals in terms of solving the problem that is really ahead of us but not in terms of removing the VAT, which may eventually be considered if the overall analysis shows that this is the way to solve it. Our analysis so far does not speak positively in this regard, i.e. The removal of VAT in this context does not allow for a solution to this problem. It would be much better if that amount, which would result from VAT termination, did not go as linearly as all of them, but focused on the endangered categories of the population. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that this has nothing to do with the population policy now, that the elimination of VAT on any item basically represents some kind of destruction of the tax system unity and that this results in a deficit in the inflows. Such proposals should, if isolated, be followed by proposals to increase VAT on some other items, including the overall VAT rate, in order to achieve a net neutral effect. For this reason, to recapitulate, I call on MEPs to consider the issue of population policy, not to view the VAT issue in isolation, but only in this overall problem, and to approach it only if it is concluded in the overall review that it makes sense. I'm saying that for now, we think there's a series of other, much better measures than removing the VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11569	Thank you. National MP Svetlana Kitić, additional question or comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11570	Mr. Minister, I'd just like to ask you one more question. Not to repeat myself, because I persisted here every day -- and the other day, when it was World Child Day, I kept talking about children -- but show at least by trying to reduce VAT to keep the state taking care of children. If you've already reduced VAT to computers, I ask you, who's going to work on those computers when every day we become an older nation? You know we're the fourth nation on the planet by age. We're disappearing. At least show some positive thinking when it comes to family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11571	Thank you. Minister Cvetkovic, answer an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11572	I support this second part in the sense that it is now clear that this is not about VAT, but about the desire to run as efficiently as possible the population policy. Therefore, the finance ministry fully supports this and will participate in building that policy with its capacity. Compared to the type "if you were able to reduce with one item, you can also do with the other" basically gives you the opportunity to say about anything: if we could do with that, we can do with this; if we can do with this, we can do with that. That's why I repeat, I support national policy, I support all efforts in terms of the rise in birth rate, population etc., but I ask you to really understand that this is not in correlation with VAT. So if the issue of population policy could be resolved, all countries in Europe would easily do so by introducing a zero VAT. On the contrary, our analysis shows that the question of population decline is one of the very serious, not just in our country. With the exception of only a few countries, such as France and some Scandinavian countries, most other countries have a negative rate; we are among them, not even in the last place. All these countries are taking a whole series of measures, with less or more success, but these measures are not about reducing VAT because, if that were the case, we would solve it. Once again, let me conclude: population policy -- yes, VAT reduction -- yes, but if it turns out to be a measure. So far, that hasn't shown up in our analysis. If anyone wants to, the finance department is ready to give the analysis they did on that earlier case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11573	Thank you. National MP Svetlana Kitić's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11574	I'd like you to send me the answer in writing, so I can understand that. What I'm saying is not a question to you, but probably to Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who has publicly promised the world's patriarch that the tax will be lifted: Why are you giving the people false notice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11575	Thank you. The DS parliamentary group, MP Miroslav Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11576	Mr. President, respected ministers, as we know, the situation in Serbia, when it comes to the delay, i.e. the deposit of garbage, is very difficult. My question is to Minister Sasha Dragin. According to the information I have, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has prepared a proposal to build regional sanitary dumps, so I am interested in whether such a proposal exists, or whether such a concept is established, because existing dumps have probably already gone beyond what is planned with their capacity. On the other hand, the problem of providing new locations is a major problem in Serbia. The second issue is related to one concrete project, which began in the pleasure municipality, along with ten other municipalities of Zlatiborski and Mačvanski County. The project was launched in 2004, which is the construction of the first regional sanitary dump in a village near Užica called Deep. The project is worth about 12,000,000 euros. The former ministry, I must commend him here, as well as Mr. Acu Popovic, has helped build this regional dump, financed the construction of the project and provided initial funding. In the last two years, as far as I know, nothing or almost nothing has been done on that. The pleasure municipality provided a location, resolved property-legal relations, did a project, formed a public enterprise, and the situation is now about that. So my question is: is this ministry planning to help continue the realization of this project? I think without the help of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, he's going to have a hard time realising, at least not for the next two or three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11577	Thank you. Minister Dragin, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11578	I thank you for your very good question. The problem of waste management in Serbia is extremely large. That's what we all know, and the citizens are best aware of in various wild dumps and garbage that's piled up in our country. The environment ministry, according to a project that has been developed, and implies the formation of 26 regional dumps throughout Serbia, systematically solves the problem through co-financing of a project to build regional dumps, and one of them is a regional dump in Uzic. The project is financed in the following way: part of the funding is provided by local self-government, and an adequate part of the funding, which is a project buffer, is provided by the Environment Fund. As far as the dump itself in Užica is concerned, land expropriation has been carried out for it, a construction project has been created and we have funds stored in the account of the Environmental Protection Fund to co-finance the project the moment when it provides an adequate amount of funds on the dedicated account for the construction of the Užica municipality's deposit. You can count on the fact that within a week, as long as it takes to go through the Treasury, the Fund will conclude a contract and provide a solution for the co-financing of that deposit when the municipality of Užice shows its assets. As far as the dump itself is concerned, it's very important that through the dump projects we don't just make dumps. I have to say, the garbage is no longer a burden - garbage is a profit. Waste is no longer just something that needs to be buried in the ground, buried and forgotten. It is very important that through system laws, and the law on waste management and packaging waste management, a proposal that, in a very short time, hopefully within a month or two, will be found here in debate, defined and, among other things, what waste is being done. We can't afford to throw, say, oil into the sewer when it can be used to make diesel fuel, we can't let aluminum waste go to the dump when it can be used for all kinds of things. I'll remind you that 95% of the price of a can of any soda can is just a can, and only 5% of the price is what's in it. Or, say, plastic waste, which is everywhere, wherever you look, in our rivers, in our national parks, in the lake on Ada... It can make new bottles or anything made of polyvinyl chloride. It's also a big problem about paper production that can be solved by having all the paper waste collected, not saying what's going on with the glass packaging and the like. All this will be settled for, I hope, a short time, through the implementation of waste management laws and packaging waste management. I was also going to say that we will always support those regional dump projects that implement the separation strategy, that is, recycling. In this way we'll get in local self-government, first, new jobs, people who will do these things. The second thing, the very communal waste disposal service will be both more effective and cheaper because the waste will not end up in the garbage, but the one that collects it will sell it as secondary raw materials. What is also very important is that through the education of the population, through the media, through NGOs we get a system in which citizens will also show their responsibility and waste disposal in an adequate way. I appreciate the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11579	SRS MP, National MP Dr. Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11580	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the government, as we can see, here are a relatively small number of representatives of our government. Man, when he sees it, he can have different ideas why it's done that way. The football team of Yugoslavia went through infamously, and then they told us, "What's your football like, that's your team." What's the government's team? That's our government. We can say that freely. I'm not talking qualitatively about insulting individuals here, I'm talking about the quantitative representation of government members. It's my handicap that I'm a doctor and, logically, I need to ask a health question. There's no one here from the Department of Health. Don't tell me that the minister doesn't have two of his secretaries, that there aren't a bunch of assistants who could have been here and who might probably be able to answer something. Of course, I come from the fact that health and quality of life are something that is the greatest social value. It's my handicap that I'm dealing with the government again, who treats investment in health care as consumption, which we heard just now from Mr. Cvetkovic. Those who seek Europe and who are for Euro-Atlantic integration have long realised that investing in health is an investment in sustainable development. That's where we can't get along at the very beginning, we have a big problem. I'm asking the prime minister. Why? For two reasons. The first is due to the serious state of health and, more importantly, the state of health of our people. What's this about? The biological integrity of this people has been compromised. How do you see that? Every year 30,000 people die more than they are born. Each year, 30,000 people disappear from Serbia's soil. For what? First, because of the white plague. Second, due to the epidemic of chronic non-infectious diseases: cardiovascular and malignant diseases. Since 2000, there has been a steady increase in disease and mortality from cardiovascular diseases, and the same goes for malignancies. Seven years after the sanctions and the war, when we have the help of the European Community that says ten billion euros have been invested in Serbian health, with our funds and their funds, and they say that ninety million euros have been invested in our health care, you say more, and I agree with that, then the question is why is this happening. But what makes me want to ask the prime minister a question is that the health minister answers all of our questions that everything was catastrophic and that we are now raising everything all over again. My question is: Do you intend to open projects that are one of the main generators of the source of corruption in Serbian health? Why didn't you do it? I have one answer from the Deputy Prime Minister, who is easy and untrue. Please answer specifically: Will you open these projects the way we asked? That's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11581	Thank you. The answer will come in writing. Please, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11582	I think this morning we've talked about this subject, though globally. The question is, what happens to donations, who spends them, how does he spend them, for what purpose? I think that's the question in place. I already told you that, after signing next week, we will organise a public debate and come to Parliament to present existing plans. Before the priorities are set, how much money will be directed towards which institution, of course, within the frameworks of the European budget that are set, we will come to the National Assembly and discuss it with you. Because it's no one's money individually, it's the money that the EU assigns to our country for all its citizens. That's why he has to go through a public hearing. Also, our country received a significant amount of donations and all information on them is on the Ministry of Finance website. One sector is fully committed to donations and international aid, where you can see all projects, who funds them, what are the purposes and who is in charge of it. Dear People's MPs, if you have any questions about any donations, please feel free to address them. Here, we will also deliver in writing a whole list of projects that are currently active and that are completed. I must say, the integrity of the system is extremely important. I don't want to belittle our neighbours in any way in Romania, but because after entering the EU, they haven't been able to identify the system of agricultural payments, and that's one specific agency that's being prepared for us, what they got in the budget, they can't spend because they're simply administratively not ready. It's the capacity we have to build. I just don't want to get into any controversy. More than once, when we talk about health and health, the health issue of Serbian President Boris Tadic was raised. (From O.R.: How's it going? It's great. I wondered where our fellow radicals got so much health care. I think I know why. Because yesterday, the right hand of President Vladimir Putin, Mr. Poltavchenko, who leads the Central, Moscow-based region of the Russian Federation, said Vladimir Putin accepted our Boris Tadic's invitation to come and visit Serbia, but said he would do so and congratulate President Tadic when he won the elections. That way you can see clearly, and I know that some people can't like it: it's clear where Russia's support is. The last thing I want to say is that the president of Serbia is neither Russian nor American, but the citizens of Serbia and Boris Tadic will win the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11583	Dr. Pai Momchilov has the right to comment on the answer. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I cannot, of course, be pleased with your answer, because that's what I advertised. Look what it's all about. I prayed for answers on how many health projects were being done in Serbia by 2000 and how much work is being done at this time. What was I looking for? The name of the project, who is the funder - donations or credit, who is the project bearer, the project budget with the specification of the contractors and the funds they received, who completed the evaluation and what it reads. The results of Serbia's health reform are catastrophic. Why? Because the most severe chronic illnesses have not been stopped, and now even the outbreaks of infectious diseases occur again, which is not typical of a developed country, and we have no sanctions. These results are catastrophic, and we need to review these projects. It was a project. Thirty projects have passed, 65 projects are under way at this time. You replied that we could see a list of projects on the site. Yes, for the first time now, after our intervention, we have seen what projects they are. All we see there are the sums that are isolated. It's missed projects. A typical example of such a failure is a scandalous blood transfusion project, which was launched in 2002, which was meant to allow our plasma fractionation plant to re-affirm and strengthen our transfusion system. Sevenm euros were invested. Now the government and the health ministry are proposing a new project from the same thing. A project to modernise the plasma center is again required. There's a lot of money being asked for something you absolutely know. I just want to remind you, in May 2004, the Health Committee and the family of this assembly unanimously decided that the project is, as it is imagined, harmful. We're looking to see projects, we're looking for people who spent money. You, Mr. Djelic, were also in the previous government's play when the abuse of Serbian citizens' budgets was being debated, when at the expense of a bank of 'tossed' funds intended for the Red Cross and voluntary blood donations and machines that are normally being bought as donations. These are examples of typical abuses. And what happened to the people who pointed out this unintentional spending and the taxpayers of Europe and the citizens of Serbia? They happened to be haunted. Mr. Steve Pozega of Novi Sad, a voluntary blood donor, who had given 173 times blood to the public prosecutor and who had given materials on corruption at the New Sad Blood Transfusion Office, had to make a statement to the SUP in Novi Sad. Fadil Delic of Prijepolje, who also pointed to abuses, was responsible for alleged insults. Dr. Rada Smiljanic, a top transfusiologist, had to defuse from the head of the department to get a urologist to her place. That's scandalous. That's what you're doing, and that's the mechanism through which you've probably spent money from foreign donors so far, and now what's credit and what's our citizens' budgets. Therefore, I ask you to see the names and see the budget, as you were given, once you were wrong, so it came out to the budget of a World Bank project on four hospital centres: Valjevo, Zrenjanin, Piroth and Kraljevo. There you have the tax-listed funds, how much consultants get, how much who gets and what it's spent on. Whether it's spent the intended way, we don't know and we're interested. You say that, and you have to show it, because the health situation is catastrophic. I don't ask the Minister of Health questions. Why? Because he's here for the third time and he's shown what he knows. He who takes him for a minister the second time besides all this—he is responsible. He is responsible for the health of the Serbian people who are saddened at the moment. Please open projects because the success of reforms, your patrons say, depends on the public and on the consciousness of whoever implements these reforms, whether they have a responsibility to their people. You'd have to have minimal responsibility and answer clearly what I ask, not like this. It's my responsibility: you can come to us and look at the details. No, I'm not interested in it like Paiu Momchilov, I'm interested in every citizen, when he presses a button and goes to the site, he can see where his money was spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11585	Thank you. National MP Dejan Mirovic is next to ask a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11586	Ladies and gentlemen, Governor Jelasic said in Nis on June 24th this year that the budget deficit is about 2.5% of GDP or about 50 billion dinars. The governor claimed he was sure that his position was shared between the IMF and the EU. Also, July 2nd of this year, in an interview with the Business Review, the governor reiterated his assessment: "One thing is certain, the deficit is not 13.7 billion dinars, both politicians and the government know it. It would be much better to show a real deficit and know what we're on. Then, the governor makes his assessment that we will have a budget that only the government claims is minus 13.7 billion, and the whole world will argue the opposite. In that context, the governor is in an interview for "Politics" 9. In September, he reiterated that the budget deficit is about 50 billion dinars. So, taking into account the adoption of the new budget and this data, I ask Minister Cvetkovic's question: Who provided accurate data regarding the budget deficit, you or the governor? Question for Mr Djelic: What is the name of the Russian prime minister, Russian Defence Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, who is the right-hand man you were talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11587	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11588	Prime Minister Zubkov, good friend. When I was Minister of Finance, he worked to prevent money laundering and was so successful that President Vladimir Putin recognized his effect. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Kudrin, an excellent friend, whom I met three weeks ago in Washington or another vice-president of the Russian Federation government, named Zhukov. His father translated Nusic into Serbian. And not only that, he was also president of a Serbian-Russian club of friends in the area of literature some time ago. The foreign minister is Mr. Lavrov. Would you like some more? I've seen at least twenty leaders. The Prime Minister who is in charge of us has come several times by the administration of the president, so the right hand in the Kremlin administration, which is in charge of the Russian Federation's Central Region - Moscow and the region, is 48.000,000 inhabitants and 60% of the Russian Federation's overall economic potential - Mr. Poltavchenko, who visited Belgrade in May this year. We visited him in July, then we had another meeting with him, in Sochi and Moscow, in October this year. That's the man who is President Vladimir Putin's right hand in the Kremlin. I must say, such support to Boris Tadic is extremely important, but the president does not choose anyone but Serbian citizens. The president of Serbia will receive support from citizens and we all know that the current and future president of the Republic of Serbia is Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11589	Here you are, MP Dejan Mirovic. Excuse me, the finance minister would like to give an answer. Please, two questions have been asked. The Deputy Prime Minister gave the answer, the finance minister will now give the answer, and then you will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11590	I want to give an answer. When you asked questions here, there were some quotes. Only one IMF quote was left out, where, after a two-week mission, it was found that by the moment of budget review and budget implementation for 2007, they found that the budget is operating with the surplus. I wouldn't get involved in who's right and who's wrong, but I'd like to say what the actual situation is in the budget, with budget revenues and expenditures, and ultimately with today's day. First, with the first ten months of this year, the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget amounted to 477,468,000,000 dinars, while the total expenditures of 438,316.000,000 dinars, which means that the budget, according to our methodology, ended with a surplus of 39,152,000 dinars this year. From the tenth month to today, it means this 20 days of the 11th month, if viewed on the principle of inflow, means what goes into the budget as the funds that are collected, and it drains away, so what goes on as payment from the Treasury, we have a surplus of several billion, extra. So, until today, practically until yesterday, we're still maintaining the high surplus you've seen. By the end of the year, we will probably enter the deficit because usually in December there are higher payments and higher inflows, but it is now almost certain that the budget, according to our methodology, for 2007 will end with surpluses, and you will have the opportunity to see in the final account for 2007. As for the relationship with the IMF and their methodology, there is indeed a certain difference. The IMF feels that some of the items that we consider to be not part of the liquid spills are, and some that they do not consider to be current inflows, we believe they are, so in a sense, it improves the picture of the budget when looking at our and their methodology. However, I must say that for the first ten months, the height of the surplus, which has been achieved according to our methodology, if even the IMF methodology had been applied, would still remain in the surplus, as they have observed. That was related to the 2007 budget, which was the issue. As for the 2008 budget, I'm not going to discuss it now. We will have the opportunity to discuss this during the period ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11591	Thank you. Please, MP Dejan Mirovic, comment or an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11592	A very short question for Mr Djelic: If you are already talking about Russia, why not mention a statement from the Foreign Ministry about the hunger strike of Vojislav Seselj? In that sense, you can see who Russia is supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11593	Thank you. We start again in a row. Do minorities want a parliamentary question? No, I don't. ) The parliamentary question - MP Vladan Batic, then MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11594	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, this is a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, who, unfortunately, is not present, but anyway. So how does this paper cover the title: Review of active investment facilities? It's a paper from the board of directors' board of directors' boards. Among other things, can he explain the meaning of item number 283 - building the Delta Maxi hall in Chačka. What does the ZTP have to do with the Delta Maxie Hall? And this is for Ginnis! Please listen to this. This is a decision to purchase materials and perform architectural, construction and craft work on the station toilet at the Kraljevo railway station. The pre-calculation value is two and a half million. But it's not over. Then comes the second decision, signed by Mr Milanko Sarančić, he is the director of the Public Enterprise ZTP, on the acquisition of materials and production of works on the water, sewers and thermotechnical installations at the station's Kljevo station. The pre-calculation value is two million. So then comes the third decision, on the purchase of materials and the performance of electricity works on the station's toilet at the King's railway station - a million dinars. As far as you can see, the bathroom at the King's train station hasn't been finished yet. It would be funny if it wasn't sad. He who laughs is irresponsible. You're laughing, Mr. DS, all the time. It's funny to you. You're making fun of each other while the crowd of people doesn't have a roof over their heads. This is 75,000 euros for a still unfinished toilet. The question is: How do the taxpayers of Serbia spend money for what purposes? I took this example on purpose because it is a picture and an opportunity for Serbia today - a cell toilet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11595	The word is issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic, in front of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11596	Dear fellow MPs, one small comment, if the chairman allows me to do so. I think it was an extremely inappropriate way for Mr Bozidar Djelic to campaign for Serbian President Boris Tadic. It's not the minister's job. Don't be angry, gentlemen. It was not suitable for the name of Boris Tadic's health status, but it is not the job of the government's vice president to play the fan. Don't be angry, I think that remark is far too much. Even though it's from God, it's a lot. We talked about privatisation today. Three big things remain on the agenda, which is EPS, NIS and military property. My question is: Can we at the next meeting promised by the President of the Assembly, when the ministers are here, gain insight, as MPs, so as not to inform ourselves of the funds of public information and various mutual plantings from the ruling coalition, information on a clear strategy for the privatisation of NIS, EPS and access to the sale of military assets? For which purposes, in which way, at least in principle, we know what models it's about. I know the government isn't in charge of this, but I'd like to, if possible, get information and how far the bankruptcy case has arrived. And, if possible, Mr Ministers, through the Privatisation Agency, have been denied how many privatisations in Serbia, on which basis, and we are particularly interested in those cases where investment programmes are not respected and where social programmes are not respected for workers. We wanted to submit some changes to the Labour Act last time. I have to tell you, complaints coming from workers say that employers today, completely by law, harass them past the obligations they've taken to keep them for a year, two, three, five at the job, by working here, or by not doing the jobs they've done in accordance with their profession, or by moving them to other factories and things like that. How do you do that? It's legal. This means that the modern employer is, therefore, legally harassing the workers. Furthermore, I would like to mention the promise made by Minister Gilas, and that said we would get priorities for the NIP. I didn't get any information that anything from the NIP was planned into capital investments, and Minister Velimir Ilic complained that there were no projects in the NIP, so I don't know, so what does that mean? And one question for the finance minister. It's not a good thing we don't have an agrarian budget in the sense of that word. I would also like to ask Mr. Minister something beyond what our distinguished colleague Borka Vukic asked about the placement of the funds. We practically have all foreign banks here, except for one or two, and they're not purely domestic, maybe one; the other that's not pure is a commercial bank that's said not to be sold. I have concrete information that in total banking balances, 18.5% is equity and that the funds are trusted are 81.5%. Given that most of these banks are registered as domestic banks, but that their headquarters are elsewhere, I am interested in whether we can talk today about formed banking oligopolies in co-operation with the National Bank of Serbia. Because if they exist - e, then it's hard to talk soon about reducing interest rates and better positioning towards the economy. Last year, as far as I'm aware, bankers made 127% more profits compared to the previous year, which means they earned sixteen and a half million more dinars compared to the previous year. So, the banks here work well, work at high interest rates, they're allowed high rates to the population regardless of 40% of the mandatory reserve and no one has left this market. I think these are very serious questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11597	Thank you. DS MPs' questions? No, there isn't. ( ) SRS's parliamentary questions? MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11598	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, taking into account what I heard from my predecessors, as far as the health status of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic is concerned about the regular performance of his presidency, as someone who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, this information has made me very concerned. In line with the announcements coming to us from Washington and Brussels, concerning the completion of the negotiation process, resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, and announcing that KIM status will be unfavorably resolved for Serbia, although the process of negotiations is under way, the Albanian negotiating team, whose skeleton makes up the Albanian terrorist summit, openly announces that it will unilaterally declare Kosovo and Metohija's independence in the Kosovo Parliament no later than February next year. I belong to those who have advocated the strict application of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 for the reason that the only guarantee mentioned is that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia and those who opposed our negotiating team sitting at the same table with proven terrorists and thus amnesting their crimes. To increase the absurdity, negotiations began, once a day marking the anniversary of the 14 Serb harvesters' massacre in Stari Grack and, for the second time, on the day of the 17th March Serb pogrom, which I believe is not an accident. But what is -- there it is. What is a fact, it is that the Serbian negotiating team has shown great co-operation and a sincere desire to find a solution. A major advantage of the Serbian negotiating team compared to the Albanian negotiating team, which receives first and foremost from the US and part of the European Union countries, lies, first and foremost, in the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are eternal Serbian territory, through centuries inhabited by Serbian life, and that the Albanian population, which currently represents the majority, which it has acquired thanks to decades-old politics and ethnic cleansing of Serbs, does not lay any historical right to the southern Serbian province. I personally believe that the issue of resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija will be discussed for a long and long time, and therefore our negotiating team must be in full shape and at the highest level. You know that in the case of prevention of duty, in this case due to sickness, the President of the Republic shall replace the President of Parliament by the Constitution. However, I believe that any change in the membership of the negotiating team would be harmful to our negotiating position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11599	The word has the finance minister Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, who answered Mr. Bajatovic's questions. I'm sorry I didn't react in time. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11600	The answer to the question about banks. The conclusion that if there is an oligopolic structure here is very bad and that this is why loans are expensive is basically quite correct because it is the oligopol structures that cause problems and prevent competition. However, the information the Ministry of Finance has on the structure of the banking market does not indicate any monopoly or oligopoly structures, and I will now give you some quantifications from which we draw conclusions. First, 36 banks operate on our banking market, so a relatively large number, as you will conclude, is not three, four or five, but, as I said, 36 independent legal entities. Within that number 36, in nine banks, the state owns some kind of participation: four banks are owned by the majority, two banks are owned by the majority, together with the EBRD, when they meet together, and three banks have minority ownership but a significant share, so it's more than 20% rather than 0.5%. So, of the 36 banks, we have our own impact at nine o'clock. The other 27 are owned by different countries, France, Austria, Greece, etc. So it's not very likely that these parent banks could create some oligopoly structure, with all these 36 banks having over 2,500 organisational units across the country, whether it's branches or some other, lower forms of organization. From this data I've presented, it turns out that the probability of the existence of oligopoly structures is small, and the Ministry of Finance has no authority or right to control the banking system. We expect, too, that the banking system is making significant profits and that's probably why they withdraw loans from their parent banks. However, by observing some other market structures, it can be concluded that in the banking industry competition is much more present than in those other structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11601	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11602	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply, but you yourself said you didn't have a clear opportunity to determine if there was an oligopolian position, but you did present statistics. But here, I'll tell you, as a man who's been dealing with his own company recently, in practice these oligopolies exist. How? By having them on the market, with the tolerance of the National Bank of Serbia, they simply negotiate on the level of interest rates. When you go to the bank to talk, everyone says they're very high risks, so based on these risks, everyone builds interest on you, so they process our credit, so they build it up. It all costs money, but what's the bottom line? Citizens are returning loans over 97-98%, I think. That's what our economy does. Then what is the risk seen? So, I'm speaking from practice. At this point, I don't handle consistent economic data. But what can we talk about? It can be said that in Serbia, we have practically the highest degree of loan returns, both citizens and businesses. All the bankers you're talking to, at the end of the year, we're all making a deal with our banks, they've been ordered to raise their wages and profits. What does that mean? This means that on our market they are doing well, regardless of what the National Bank requires 40% of the deposits for most of the funds. Please, what do I want to talk about here right now? About the lack of our banking system. I don't think we understand each other here, Mr. Secretary. They handle 81.5% of the funds entrusted to these banks. Well, I guess that's our money. Next. I'm not satisfied with the bank's ownership structure. It's not just about whether it owns the state, it's about domestic economics. Once it was known, the bank owners were domestic economic operators, until we reached an arrangement with the World Bank and the IMF, when everything went bankrupt. I'm not going back to that bankruptcy, I hope we're really going to get information about the real situation about the bankruptcy of four or five of our biggest banks. What worries me is that the state didn't find it appropriate, it might not be the best question for the finance minister, but here, unfortunately, I don't see anyone else I could refer to as him: why don't we, people, have a domestic development bank? If all these banks, which operate here are domestic, in fact foreign banks, they only aim at profit. At this point, in my opinion, Mr. Minister, we don't have any serious mechanisms other than the National Bank, whose job is not to place funds, which we can intervene as a state on the market. I don't think we got this right. When we add that to the actual collection of funds from domestic production, they make industrial production, where we have growth, and there is no (it is that we had surpluses in agriculture and so on.We can find out, regardless of the declared growth of the gross social product, that we cannot be satisfied with this growth structure. I have to admit, with eight or nine billion euros at your disposal this year in the budget, you can't talk about real reforms in Serbia. When we add this (unfortunately, this is not a budget debate) that this budget is neither past nor before, nor this year is the development budget, then we in the state have serious problems of structural nature. If someone here expects to receive two billion euros, which will be placed through the NIP, perhaps in the election year, from the sale of the oil industry of Serbia, because I understood it as Minister Gilas, then I ask the question: Is it possible to do serious projects in infrastructure, energy, etc., without a clear strategy? Not even Velja Ilic, I didn't hear her from the Minister of Energy, I didn't even hear her from the Minister of Agriculture. Therefore, I think that if we already want to be as serious as this House's intention to talk with the government, we should banish this story to the pure, and that ministers one or two or three, then it is a normal conversation, come with the possibility of informing MPs first of the capital projects they are planning to do in their ministries. First, it would be good if such talks were held with committees, if the committees were to invite each minister individually, so that the ministers would prepare materials for meetings in the parent committees, and then the materials from these committees were delivered, at least through some site here within the Assembly, to all the MPs concerned so that we would be well prepared and that, instead of day-to-day political matters, in such discussions, in the presence of ministers, and instead of rooting for one presidential candidate, we were actually qualified to discuss what the citizens are most interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11603	I ask that the question of MP Zvonko Mihajlovic be forwarded to the government as requested by the procedure. We're back in line. The Union of Duke Hungarians -- the Sandzak List -- the Union of Roma Serbia -- does it want to ask a parliamentary question? No, I don't. The Democratic Party? No, I don't. No word from the Rules of Procedure, that's the deal. Just questions, if you have them. National MP Lasslo Varga - Vojvodjani MPs. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11604	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Markovic a question. After the inauguration of the multi-party in 1992, a new Law on State Administration was passed. Article 41 of the Law allowed the Government to determine the area and headquarters of the administrative districts without any restrictions. The same year, 1992, the government adopted a regulation on the education of administrative districts. By that regulation, the government has attached Adju, Kanjiz and Sainta, so the three Bačvan municipalities, to the North-Balkanat district, of course, with the aim of dividing the area, in which the majority is made up of the Hungarian population. That was, unfortunately, legal at the time. Of course, it wasn't legitimate, it wasn't fair, it was even pointless and irrational, but at least it was legal. In 2005, a new Law on State Administration was adopted which states to its Member 39 that the Government is obliged to do so, when it determines the area of the administrative districts, in a way ''that enables the rational and effective work of the district authorities''. So, since 2005, the government has had one restriction. When the Government adopted the Administrative Circumstances Regulation in 2006, otherwise the regulation entered into force on 7 March, it again attached these three Bhutanian municipalities to the Northobanat County. Unfortunately, it had already done this against the law and against the constitution, because the government simply had to do it in a way that, once again, I would like to quote - 'to enable the rational and effective work of the county departmental units of the state administration'. In January's elections, the Democratic Party won 9,668 votes in the territory of the three municipalities, so only a little less than one entire term. I must say, the citizens of these municipalities feel deceived. It has been months since the formation of the government, and unfortunately this injustice is still not corrected. My question to the Minister for State Administration and local self-government is: When will the Ministry, whose head you are headed, initiate with the Republic Secretariat of the Legislative Office to prepare to amend this regulation in order to finally comply with the law? Because, simply, this is already an illegal state, I think, and you will agree, further unsustainable. Of course, otherwise, fortunately now the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and the SVM's initiative will be to address the Constitutional Court with the aim of launching a procedure for the establishment, assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it would be much better if the government at one of the next sessions changed this regulation and to return these Botswana municipalities back to where they belong - to Bacak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11605	Thank you, Mr. Varga. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11606	Thank you. I must admit that in this assembly for the past six months, I've probably been most of all my fellow ministers. By chance, there were about nine draft laws that I defended before the MPs. And Mr. Varga always mentioned the Democratic Party. Now Mr. Laszlo Varga asks me when I, or the Ministry, will insist on the Secretariat of Legislatives, whose head is the DSS official, to get him to do something. I'll answer what I can answer, but I can see that this is pure politics because you probably have something against the Democratic Party. I didn't enter this assembly so you could mention the Democratic Party. Feel free to say so. Mr. Balinovac is in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia and it really is no problem to ask him because you have good co-operation with him. Now I'm gonna say about this. It is truly unserious to politicise the issue of administrative districts. Administrative districts serve to carry out certain tasks of the state administration outside the head office of the state administration. The government's regulation educates administrative districts precisely to make the authorities of the state administration - and the authorities of the state administration are ministries, ministry bodies and special organisations - more effective irrationally doing certain tasks. The issue of administrative districts should not be politicised at all, in any way, nor does it have anything to do with the nationality of the population concerned by a particular administrative district. Anyway, I'll tell you what's in the department of State Department's work and local self-government. The priority goal of our ministry is to establish a local self-government system in Serbia as efficient and stable, and at this point all our thoughts are directed towards the new Law on Local Self-Government establishing a better system of local self-government than we have now. It's the second issue of a territorial organization. The new Law on Territorial Organization will establish a number of municipalities that will receive city status in order, later on, to give these cities far more jurisdiction than they now have, in order to simply respect the fact that in Serbia there are units of local self-government that have different numbers of inhabitants, different abilities, different opportunities, and not all of them are set up in the same way from a formal legal point of view. The Law on Territorial Organization does not deal with administrative districts. So, the administrative districts are matter that is regulated by the regulation. The Law on Territorial Organization, which is in the jurisdiction of this ministry, cannot treat the matter of administrative districts at all. Finally, when the topic of territorial organisation ends, we need to have a serious conversation, all the political parties in our country, on the issue of regionalisation, and see what opportunities there are for the establishment of the region, whether there is a desire to set up regions, what it should look like, etc. You know that there is a certain obstacle that is contained in the very provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to local self-government and territorial autonomy. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not mention the regions. In any case, I would really ask you, if you have a specific question I will far more specifically answer you, but politicize something that is for anything but politicizing, I think it's simply not correct, especially not attacking the Democratic Party why some other party isn't doing something. So, you really, obviously, have an incredible desire to flaunt with the Democratic Party. I understand that and it's politically legitimate, but I don't understand why you put it in a context you shouldn't put it in. Some citizens might think that there is a negative relationship in Serbia towards the citizens of Hungarian nationality, i.e. in Vojvodina, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it has so far since 1992, is deliberately not going to create an administrative district that corresponds to the environments where members of a particular nationality live. So I repeat, that's not true. The administrative district exclusively serves to carry out certain tasks of the State Administration Authority outside the headquarters of those authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11607	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger Laszlo Varga, a group of ambassadors of the Duke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11608	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, you have replaced one dozen thesis within three minutes. Of course, we understand that the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Territorial Organization have nothing to do with the Regulation on Administrative Circumstances. And last time, when I asked a similar question, you gave a similar answer. I mean, I'm aware of that fact. So the next time you answer, don't use these sentences anymore. On the other hand, I was talking about that you, or that your ministry should initiate an amendment, namely the preparation of amendments and additions to this regulation, because it is based on the Ministry Act in the jurisdiction of your ministry. The Republic Secretariat of Legislative Affairs only makes regulations when you get the initiative. On the third hand, this is of course no politicization of this issue, but simply we ask that geographical facts be respected. How can you say that any kind of politicization is that we're asking that the three Bhutanian municipalities, located on one side of Tisa, return to Bacak, not to be attached to Banat as is the case now? People of Horgosa would travel for 12-15 minutes to solve some problems if they did not belong to a managing district based in Kikinda. At present, they travel an hour and a half or two hours to get some documents out. So the bottom line of this proposal is that it simply comes out to meet these citizens. My question is: When is the Government of the Republic of Serbia going to amend this anti-candidate and anti-constitutional regulation? Once again, I would like to quote this provision of the State Administration Act. "The government is obliged that the administrative district area so determines that it enables a rational and effective operation of the district units of the government's authorities." So if you read this provision, then it should be clear to you that, if the Botswana municipalities are attached to Banat, in no case is it fulfilled what it says in this provision of the State Administration Act. On the other hand, the entire judicial system and various other segments of life have been organised in such a way that all these municipalities are gravitating towards Subotica; this is, for example, a unique telecommunications area 024 etc. Only in the area of education of the administrative districts of this municipality are they attached to Banat. Again, I ask you: When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia amend this regulation and comply with the Law on State Administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11609	Thank you, Mr. Varga. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11610	Really, Mr. Varga, I can't understand that this is a political issue. The government will propose to amend the Regulation on the organisation of administrative districts when it assesses that the existing schedule of administrative districts does not satisfy its needs for certain public administration tasks to be carried out outside the headquarters of the state administration authorities where they are located. For the public to know, I'll read Article 38: "In the administrative district, the authorities of the state administration can... ", so I can, and right now we understand, in most of the administrative districts it is, and I think most people here know it, practically and it's not happening anymore - we're having a conversation in the government about what the administrative districts are really serving and I think many MPs are aware that some of the administrative districts are performing some functions and some of them are doing nothing; the administrative district is, well, created so probably with a certain idea, but that idea never came to life—means, I can, but again I'm saying that many don't do it, "... to perform one or more of the following tasks of the State Administration: to solve administrative matters in the first degree, or about the appeal when the public authority holders resolved in the first degree,... "I don't know about any administrative district at this time to settle a complaint about the decisions of public authorities holders..." to supervise the work of public authorities holders and to carry out inspection." It's part of the inspection area. Well, what difference does it make if it's the administrative district headquarters here, if any of the municipalities belong to this administrative district or the one, when we sent an inspector from Capca to Nis the other day, and we sent the inspector from Nis to Shabac for objectivity. I mean, you're really wrong, but here, when the government assesses, she'll do it. I don't want to agree that this is a political issue. This is not a political issue, this is a matter of organization and the work of the government's authorities. It is neither against the constitution, nor against the law, and I do not know what any assessment of anti-constitutional and illegality is derived from, as Article 39 literally states: "The government is obliged to determine that the area of the administrative district so as to enable the rational and effective work of the district authorities of the state administration". If someone wants to question it, one of the authorities of the state administration and tell the government -- this is not rational because when you look at the work of that body and that body of the state administration, you see that the administrative inspector has to travel 20 kilometers, and if he was here, he would travel 12 kilometers. There is no policy there, it is a matter of the functionality of that body, as every government body is obliged to establish an internal act on job systematization in a certain way. So I hope we've solved this after all. I would not want to leave any trace of doubt that there is any politicisation here or, God forbid, that this is in any way to the detriment of members of any national minority, and especially not the Hungarian national minority, which is by number and the largest national minority, which we all have great respect for. I was an MP who voted for the Deputy Prime Minister to be a very representative of the Hungarian national minority. Please, let's not burden this kind of thing with our political lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11611	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been issued by MP Vladan Batic, the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as DHSS MP, I have received a series of questions, and I think one of them deserves the answer of the minister in charge, I suppose that's Mr Rasim Ljajic, who usually responds to such initiatives. If there is a minister who shows a desire to grant some applications, requests and questions, then it is Mr Ljajic. The question for him is: Why has the principle of solidarity and self-financing of the unemployed been abolished? While we were in wars and sanctions, the people say, the state paid for that health insurance, and now, when they boast that they have a budget surplus, which we heard today, they punish families of the unemployed who are unhappy enough because of their income, status, inability to start a family. The question is, will hospitals be opened for people without medical books? The price for receiving free health insurance is about 7,500 dinars, and the monthly unemployment fee is 1,700 dinars. Imagine a family with two unemployed and only a little bit crossing the censorship. It's an incomparably greater blow to the home budget than to collect life supplies. That's one question. Secondly, I am sorry that there is no Deputy Prime Minister, who has just quoted some foreign officials, I did not understand exactly who, Prime Minister, Minister etc., Russia seems to me. One question for Mr. Djelic's vice president. The Macedonian prime minister's cabinet confirmed recently that Skopje lawyer Alexander Tortevski had tried to bribe Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski with threem euros. Why am I asking this question to Mr. Djelic? Because he was a close associate of Mr. Gruevski, he was his adviser first, so Mr. Gruevski's adviser, Mr. Djelic, and this is not an illusion of Mr. Djelic, but of the intention of looking for an answer to the question of who this businessman is from Serbia. Why? There's an explanation. Because this businessman from Serbia, or a company that is said to be the largest commercial company in Serbia, is not going to tell you which one made an arrangement with the previous Macedonian government of Prime Minister Buckovski to build a shopping centre at one of the most exclusive locations in Skopje. The government changed, Prime Minister Gruevski came and tried to remain in force for an agreement with the previous prime minister. It would be good, because of Serbian citizens, to get an answer to the question, as the Macedonian government confirmed it. It's not a naive thing. So that's a very serious question that deserves an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11613	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11614	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers and Associates, question for Mr Dinkic, Minister of Economy: Is he aware of all the companies in Serbia dealing with the export of military equipment and weapons? Can a list of companies dealing with military equipment and weapons be provided to MPs; can we get information on the share of SDPR in the export of military equipment and weapons compared to private companies? That's the first question. The second question is for Mr. Bubal's trade minister: is he familiar with the term "first-loading megamarket"? Does this ministry have information that under the term "first filling" large commercial facilities that are opening include the following operation: potential suppliers present everything found in the megamarket at the opening; that the company Metro, which first opened such a megamarket, thus receiving 12m euros in gratis goods, that Mercator companies, Maxi, the Interex, received grace goods for more than 250,000 euros? Is it known to the Ministry of Trade that tax evasion is done in this way and prevents competition, so it is not possible that in any way that the market knows you appear as a potential supplier of such companies? Did the competent state authority, which has public authority in this area, come forward in this regard, and that is the Commission for the Prevention of Competition? The next question is for Mr Cvetkovic, the finance minister. In the 2008 draft budget law, in the context of the budget, I read that one division refers to different associations of warriors, their members of families, etc. It's listed there, I think, 11 associations. There's more than just the NOR Association of Fighters. I have a question: will the NGO Association of War Veterans use funds from the budget or are they simply left out in an explanation that the Ministry of Finance has given preparing the 2008 budget? The next question concerns the Ministry of Agriculture: How much funds have been financed for the construction of the dam, the Rzav regional water system, since I found in the budget the information that this dam will also be financed and there is no amount? I am very interested in what is the amount and dynamics to invest in this facility, if these are indeed defined funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11615	The word is made by MP Milan Vukovic, Democratic Party. I'm sorry, I missed. National MP Predrag Umicevic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11616	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, I have two questions for Minister Sasha Dragin. One is the maltene continuation of the questions asked by Mr. Miroslav, regarding the management of municipal waste. He was talking about Uzic. And in Smederev, the city I come from, we have a difficult situation. In 2003, we made a decision on the municipal arrangement of the city. We talked about the regional dump of the Jelen do, we did everything we needed from the documentation, for about 200,000 inhabitants, and that's where it stops. Smederevo was not fortunate to have one consistent policy over many years, but we were witnessing that the Smederjev presidents of the municipality had been arrested and that we were very often changing power. We don't even have a congregation majority today. We have a temporary organ that does its job. Last year, as far as I know, Smederev was approved through the Fund somewhere around 1,200,000 euros for construction, i.e. the participation of the Fund in the construction of a regional dump, because Smederevo is indeed in a catastrophic state when it comes to municipal waste management. Smederevo uses the Jezava River. The river has made a dump, and it is an unacceptable situation, especially if we know that the dump is no longer in the EU today. Germany uses the garbage burner, however, Smederevo can't even get that qualitative moment to have a sanitary dump. Since Smederevo did not use these funds in the past year, the specific question for you is: Can the citizens of Smederev expect the help of the Ministry and the Environment Fund to build a sanitary dump? The second question will be the general nature, so I don't speak this narrowly, locally. We've seen some of the things you've done in some companies that represent truly black spots in Serbia's ecological sky. The question is: Has the ministry brought any strategic plan and further steps so that all Serbian citizens can hear what they can expect in their environments when it comes to companies polluting our environment, i.e. air and water in Serbia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11617	Thank you, Mr. Umitchevic. Minister Sasha Dragin has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11618	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, as I mentioned in the previous address, the proposal for building regional dumps is great in Serbia and we expect the construction of 26 regional dumps that will also be recycling centres. Of course the funds planned for Smeder's stand. What's very important is that the local self-government itself, the reciprocal giving of the Environmental Protection Fund, also defines its share of the funds. The moment these funds are found in the dedicated account, they will also receive funds from the Environmental Protection Fund. Due to the inertness of local self-government on this issue, the dispute in the granting of demands, i.e. in providing funds for the construction of regional dumps, as well as problems for local self-governments to agree on where regional dumps will be, about a month and a half ago we initiated a meeting where all the regional chiefs have been participating. In addition, to provide additional funding for the construction of regional dumps, funds for building regional dumps, as well as an increase in the capacity of local self-government themselves to manage waste on their territory, some weeks ago we signed a contract with a GTC, a renowned organisation from Germany that has already justified itself here with very large funds donated to our country and with a Standing Conference of Cities. One of the main reasons for the establishment of such co-operation was to assist local self-government in waste management. In this way, we will ensure that, in addition to funds from the Fund, from the Ministry itself and local self-government, and from donors from abroad, we achieve faster processes of organising regional dumps. As far as the problem is concerned, so-called. The black dots of ecology in Serbia, it is important to say that we have defined some of the six most important, primary problems. One of them is Panchevo anyway. I'd like to say one thing at a time what we did in those dots, so I'll start with Panchev. In Panchev, we have signed the biggest investment contract in ecology so far. The NIS has allocated about 120,000,000 euros and an additional sixm euros to the Environment Fund. So we expect that all environmental problems, as far as the Panchev refinery is concerned, will be resolved sometime by 2009. Besides, we're fighting a serious fight with the rest of the so-called. Southern industrial zones in Pancheva. We've issued a warrant for the temporary suspension of the work of Azotara Panchevo due to high concentrations of ammonia in the air. Despite that ban, they continued to work, and we filed a criminal charges against them, and the other day, they were questioned by an investigative judge. I sincerely hope that there will be some seriousness, so that Azotara herself can continue to work, because she has an extremely high potential: both in employment, and export potential and potential for our market. With the HIP, it is agreed that by the end of the year an egaliser is covered, which is one of the largest pollutants in the collective, and that there are no emissions of harmful gases. That part of the funds that will come from the Paris Club's write-off, about fivem euros, since their proposal was to go for ecologicality in Serbia, we will insist on investing in the secondary gasification of Panchev. In addition, together with the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina, next week we begin to create a buffer zone, a forest zone between the industrial zone south and the city of Pancheva itself, which is the usual process in major industrial cities in Europe. Let me just point out, Frankfurt, for example, has a 40km forest belt around it to cancel out the emissions of harmful gases. As far as the sewerage itself is concerned, we are negotiating with the Italian embassy and Italian donors to provide donor and favourable credit funds and thus solve the problem of building a purifier in Panchev. In addition, the province administration has already invested a lot of funds in the construction of a sewage network and purifiers in the suburban town of Starcheva, which lie within the industrial zone of the south. The other big problem is Bor. The main contaminant in Bor is definitely the Copper Melt and it appears, as a show, sulfur dioxide. What we could have solved acutely in Bor is to set up a station to measure the quality of air automatically. In this way we get in real time, in our ministry, the values of the show, and we can every time it crosses the limit values to stop Topionica's work. In addition, we have invested about 150,000 dinars in the femur recovery and thus prevents the pollution of the Borska river and Danube, which was the biggest problem. And that's all the NIP funds we got this year. From the World Bank, we've got a loan to resuscitate the entire wasteland, and we're also doing a process of sniffing the slopes that are bare because of the lukewarm exploitation of copper ore. It's about Bor. Of course, it should be mentioned that the first tender, the sale of RTB Bor was shot down by the Ministry of Environmental Protection because we weren't satisfied with the investment programme in environmental protection from a potential buyer -- that was then $60 million, we asked it to be three times bigger, now it's $180,00,000. As far as the rest of the black dots are concerned, the big problem is also the Grand Baba Channel in Vojvodina. We have here an extremely good co-operation with local self-government, with the province and with other institutions that are responsible for solving this problem. No matter what party or any other belonging, we cooperate well and for the first time in 70 years, as far as this problem persists, it is agreed that all levels of the state administration take part in the resolution of this problem. The project is worth, all together, 40m euros and will equally enter into the solution of this problem and Vrbas municipality, and the Municipality of Crvenkovski, and the District Executive Council, and the "Vode Vojvodina" and the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, and the Environmental Protection Fund and our ministry. We expect for two or three years a complete solution to the problem of the Great Back Channel between Vrbasa and Red, its pollution, as well as the cleaning. Besides, big problems are also in Obrenovac. Mr Batic, at one of my previous guests in the Assembly, initiated the problem and asked what we would do with it. Right after that we started solving the problem of the ashes in Obrenovac. This year, a circus of hundreds of millions of dinars has been set aside to resuscitate the ashes in such a way as to make them green and hum, and now it's some time when it begins. Next week, the shaming action itself begins, and that's how we're going to solve this problem. Since Mr. Nikolic is probably having trouble with the weather, I wanted to apologize for being engrossed. If you want a closer answer, I'd be happy to give it to you myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11619	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11620	First of all, Mr. Minister, I don't have any problems. I'm here at the National Assembly in my house, and you're a guest. You've been asked a question to answer, not to give us a lecture on what your ministry is doing this year, what will happen next. That when it's a budget, when you explain where you're going to spend your resources, come here, bring out the exposés, tell me everything your ministry is going to do. We're here now to ask questions and hear answers. Go somewhere else and don't tell me I'm having problems. I don't have a problem, you have problems being in the government of thieves and criminals. That's your problem. (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic, please. If you're a thief or a criminal, I don't know. If you, gentlemen of the government, were to take advantage of the sessions where we ask you to make us birthday girls here about your ministries, you've made a terrible mistake. We can take hours of work to spoil this atmosphere. But you're spoiling it. So I couldn't take it anymore. Fifteen minutes you've been talking about cities, toponyms, locations that no one's asked you about. I don't know if I have a mental problem right now or you. If someone tells you - Fireman and Uzice, it has nothing to do with the Great Back Channel, it has nothing to do with Bora. Or, I don't know the geography, and I've visited Serbia along and across, and I can tell the drivers from the Assembly which way to go, where to turn. So, Minister, we're not little children, you're still not in any way in charge of Serbia, you just need to put it in charge. We really don't have time to listen to you for more than three minutes because it's about a time in which you can give a concrete answer. Everything else is the survival of the People's Messengers. Here, now I'm not leaving the O.R. Whoever of you wants to deal with the MPs this way will get our answer right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11621	Minister Sasha Dragin has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11622	From what I understand, I've been given two questions. The first question was about the town of Smederjevo and the regional dump itself, and the second issue was about Serbia's black spots. I wanted to give a comprehensive answer. I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, maybe you haven't been in the O.R. all day, so you haven't heard the question, but I've been trying really hard to answer it in the shortest lines. Excuse me one more time, please, if I've been engrossed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11623	The word has Goran Cvetanovic, a member of the SRS. Here you go, Mr. Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11624	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Health and Family Care, I am expressing concern about the health situation of all Serbian citizens, and particularly about the indication that Mr. Boris Tadic is a sick president. It is a serious and dramatic situation in the country and, if the information is correct, I am not asking for an answer from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister who left the session of the Republic Assembly, but from Prime Minister Kostunica, not because we trust Mr. Kostunica, but because he is responsible. The general danger to Serbia is certainly the state of health of Serbia's president. After all, if we are already calling for democracy, in the United States if someone has an excoration, or a scratch on their head, if they have a contusion or a commotio cerebra, or a concussion, they can't even run for president of that country. (President: Mr. Cvetanović, please. () If we are referring to such a democratic procedure, we must absolutely respect such a procedure. I will remind you, Mr. Chairman, you were an MP in the last term, that, unfortunately, at least four MPs from the previous assembly have passed away, probably because of the presence of a coke virus that directly attacks the heart muscle, and you know that air conditioning and modern lifestyle are just affecting such a health condition. That is why Mr Tomislav Nikolic insisted that the MPs of the SRS have insight into their health status, because obviously both the stress and all that is happening, so that every individual who is a public function bearer must be known. I will exclude the presence of a small number of ministers, and above all, Minister Markovic, who made a promise when he was a MP, before he took the oath, that he would also take care of the laws. On 12 April 2007, the temporary body of the municipality of Leskovac was educated. In Leskovac, there is a democratic forced administration. It's the fate of Leskovci again. Whenever the president of the DS municipality, Leskovac, becomes a temporary city, a city that stagnates, does not move forward, and we know that never the temporary state has brought about any improvement. Leskovac does not have a temporary body and temporarily larger, Leskovac is ruled by a political headquarters run by Belgrade's top command. So I ask you: Why did you not apply Article 114, where it was defined that elections for local self-government units were to be held within three months of the day the elections were to be held, that is, to establish a local self-government unit assembly? Given that the Public Information Act, Article 2, defines that no one should restrict freedom of public information, allow me to conclude the question: Is there a parking mob? You obviously know a lot of mobs, but I'm guessing you haven't heard of this one yet. Here, I'm giving you information. The PC Belgrade firm received a job without a tender in ten cities. The JKP Parking Service signed a contract to implement and implement the modern system via SMS. The value of the contract is 190.000 euros, and it was signed for a period of five years. The questions are: What are the economic parameters of use, and according to Article 30. The law on public procurement, that equipment worth 70,000 in a five-year lease cost 190.000 euros? Why has the procurement procedure not been carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? There are at least four reputed companies in the Republic of Serbia that own the system and that could respond to the contract's request. I asked for copies, a contract for the introduction of a billing system via SMS, confirmation, for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, and I didn't get an answer. That's why, in the end, a few days ago, I asked the Commissioner for Information Mr. Rodoljub Sabic to give all the information regarding these absolutely large corruptions, bribery and everything that happens in the municipality of Leskovac, in which you do not call the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11625	As far as I know, the deal is there's no answering the Rules of Procedure, only if I've violated any procedures. Did I break any order? Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of correctness, we have agreed, there is no reporting on points 225 and 226, because parliamentary matters are in order. Everything else is a matter of the Rules of Procedure. Well, we can't work without the Rules of Procedure. It's illogical. Don't make us so much... So, there are reports on the Rules of Procedure. And, please, at the beginning of the session I warned you that article 200. The rules of procedure mean that when asking parliamentary questions here, ministers, or government, or at least a representative part of the government should sit. We agreed to participate in this session, counting on you to be correct. I don't want the two ministers to belittled at all, but it really doesn't make sense. He was your Deputy Prime Minister here. I wouldn't get into whether or not he ran away because I guess he had no reason, they haven't started questioning this about Meridian's bank yet, but then he won't even be in the country. I would warn the chairman that he will try (after the first elections everything will be placed on the table) to ensure a minimum of dignity as farce as the Assembly is concerned, to have ministers appear here or, gentlemen, to break this farce. We are not here to ask each other questions, but to ask them to the ministers, and that they give the shortest possible answers they think they can give or write them by direction to the MPs. Therefore, we will wait for a while, we will continue to work, but if you do not provide an adequate presence, then you will have to interrupt the session and continue when you are able to secure the presence of an appropriate number of ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11627	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11628	I will try to answer Mr Cvetanovic, although I think he knows the answer to this question. We probably don't agree on the content of the answer, but I'll say it. No need to point fingers, I don't call the election. As you know, it is not the responsibility of the Minister for State Administration and local self-government. You know that the adoption of a new constitution provides for a different organisation of local self-government in Serbia. This is probably why the author predicted it, and later we, who voted in the constitution, also passed the Law implementing the Constitution, which stated in Article 3 that the elections for all local self-government units would be called by 31 January 2007. Accordingly, my opinion, and I believe that it is shared by the majority of the professional and political public in Serbia, that the Constitutional Law, as a senior, as an act of an undisputed greater legal force than the Law on Local Self-Government, has established that elections for local self-government units will be called by 31 December 2007. The reason for this is, in my opinion, that when the Constitution was adopted, it assumed that the relevant laws would also develop constitutional provisions concerning the new organisation of units of local self-government, given the provision of the Constitution which says that local self-government units are now the highest authorities and that they decide on the selection of the executive body, so it is no longer elected by citizens. I think this is the right position, not only legally, but also from the point of view of some over-needed celery, which is that it would be extremely unserious to call elections in all units of local self-government as where the time for calling these elections expires and then come into a situation where we have a president of a municipality that will be two months and re-schedul the elections in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law. And we'd really get into that situation. We'd have the presidents of municipalities and elections maybe now, so in two months, maybe again, and I don't think it's simply a state interest or in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law. What I'm saying is that this is a position that has been taken since the previous term. Also, this is an attitude that was not disputed during the previous assembly and the previous government called and that the disputed attitude began practically only after Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic died. Before that, no one really questioned this interpretation of the Constitutional Law, which, I say again, according to my deep conviction, is the correct interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11629	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11630	Since you asked me to, I'm going to do a lot better, but I'm going to remind you that you just had an excuse for being a DSS minister and that's why you can't give an adequate answer. The election's now being called by the president of the assembly, and it's from your party. You absolutely have no excuse for disrespecting the law and the Constitution. Four months earlier you called elections for the Leskovac municipality when someone else was in local self-government. Predrag Markovic was then president and for no reason has called the elections four months earlier. We're not talking about the president of the municipality, he's the only one who's legitimate now in Leskovac, everything else is illegal. All decisions made, as you are about to have affairs that will cost you the next election, where you take jobs of 190.000 euros without a tender, and you will see, you will have more and more. It is in your interest, in the interest of all citizens, that you respect the law and do not seek excuses - when elections will be called, whether they will be called and when they should be maintained. I think it's in the interest of all citizens to respect what you've been holding on to all the time. Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11631	Please, no word from the Rules of Procedure. Miss Jovanovic, please stand down. I'm taking a five-minute break for a consult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Soon several other ministers will join us, who have been present in the O.R. all day, who have gone to do their jobs and will return, of course. I think we witnessed this morning that a large number of ministers respected this institution of parliamentary issues and there is no reason not to continue to do as we did this morning. The next MP, Sreto Peric, appears ahead of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Assembly, I have an objection to your expense. When, MPs, we tried to affirm the MPs' institute, you violated it in the most harsh way possible. I'll give you two reasons. Although we should have had this item on the agenda yesterday, we postponed it because ministers and Prime Ministers could not be present at the National Assembly Hall to answer parliamentary questions. Today, in the afternoon part of the session, at 10.00 hours, when the session began, about a dozen Serbian government ministers walked in. We were counting on another minister coming in during the day, but about, when Cedomir Jovanovic finished his discussion with a number of ministers, it can be said that mostly those ministers who were interested in controversy with Cedomir Jovanovic came, and I can see that both ministers and Cedomir Jovanovic were right when they criticised each other. Then you let the Deputy Prime Minister act as if he were at the final convention, as you say, in the elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia. I think you had to warn him then, to make it clear to him that he was in the National Assembly, in front of the MPs, where he should give certain answers to questions. Let's put that aside. In future practice, I hope you won't allow it to make any more mistakes. We are concerned about youth status in Serbia, their perspective and their future. Then we're worried about a large number of people living in the country. You know that a large number of rural households are being shut down and shut down, no renovations, no settlements, no help from the state to make these people live better. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing something and is it planning to do something about the rights of employees, especially those who have worked for 20-30 years, and have now lost their jobs and, as such, are no longer needed by anyone in this immeasurable capitalist period? Then, in particular, one of the most important state issues is the solution to Kosovo and Metohija's problems. We are also thinking and concerned about the health of every individual, every citizen, and you have heard on several occasions from the SRS MPs, based on information available to us, that the president of the Republic of Serbia is not the best health condition. What the Deputy Prime Minister said in a funny tone, that he was with him last night and talked to him for about two and a half hours—we cannot believe in such a diagnosis, in such a finding, nor did Minister Tomica Milosavljevic say. They could have spoken politically, they could have spoken privately, but we're not convinced that he's as healthy as Dren, as the Deputy Prime Minister said. In order for these problems to be solved effectively and adequately, above all, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, we need to have a clean situation. And citizens think so and want to know what kind of health the President of the Republic is, because it is very important that all members of the negotiating team, and especially the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, be in the state of health in which they can make the best decisions for the state of Serbia and thus give the right to solutions. The Deputy Prime Minister here, however, spoke theoretically and tried to present a presentation of the knowledge of political figures in Russia, but at one point in his presentation, he said that we could seek protection from the EU alone from the least competition between China and India. Vice-President Bozidar Djelic, without an alternative to the European Union, cannot be sure what will be done. You have not also said in your address that they are being led, whether certain concrete talks are being held with Russian economic operators about investing in the Republic of Serbia and helping the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11634	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11635	Thank you. The first thing I'm saying is, moving on to our president's health issue is a serious question. We told you he's fine. He was on VMA because he visited Patriarch Paul, who was not well. As for the Russian Federation, we were pleased that one of the leaders of that friendly country, but the Russian Federation, like any serious state, would in no way affect, nor would it affect the internal political opportunities in our country. I apologize if you've seen it as an election campaign. The only pre-election campaign that will exist is from the moment the president of this House opens the presidential elections. It's a completely internal political issue of our country. The Russian Federation of course does not intend, nor is this something that is directed to interfere with the internal political opportunities of our country. That's very clear. As far as relations with the Russian Federation are concerned, I'd like to comment a little on economic matters. I want to say first a name I didn't mention earlier, and that's Mr. Serdjukov's secretary of defense. It was from a list of people you asked me to tell. Our business exchange with the Russian Federation has flourished in the last six years. She's six times bigger now than she was six years ago. True, a good part of it on the import side is about energy, but we can see that's where development is going. Today we saw that one significant Russian combination was in the race for RTB Bor. This time someone else won one open and fair competition, but, as we said, new transactions are coming, for example. Privatization of our Jat Erveiz. There will be opportunities, through the tender, and the building of a cargo centre with the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, as well as, when the strategy is established (I believe it will be done by the end of the year), in the domain of the privatisation of NIS, which will, in any case, pass the check of this high house, because in its application will go through the preparation of a specific law on the privatisation of NIS, so that all MPs and our entire public will be fully familiar with the model and proposals that will be adopted and proposed by the Government. At this point, we have a series of projects with the Russian Federation. The most important of them is the construction of a pipeline through our country. It's for our country of first-class national importance. We know the Nabucco project that has a lot of difficulties in establishing it. We know that a number of European countries are behind it. And there's another, competitive project, South Stream, Blue Stream 2, which our country supports, and we're going to do everything in our power to get Gazprom to decide on spring next year, because for that time they announced those decisions, that the pipeline would pass through our country. This will mean much more competitiveness for our industry, not only for the glass industry, but also for the hardware industry, as well as for the series of our households that have been defined for this way of heating and functioning. It's purer energy and more perspective. Not to mention that, according to experts, it can bring in, due to the transit revenue our country would collect, about three hundred million dollars in revenue a year. In addition, our country ends up working on the Banatski Dvor underground gas warehouse, which will range between 200 million and 300 million normal cubic metres of gas. It's important to us because that way we could have a much more predictable price of gas. Today, since we do not have such a warehouse, we fully depend on the prices that exist at that moment and on the way Hungary, for example, works, charges us transit costs, which are quite high. There are opportunities to build a much larger underground warehouse, up to three billion normal cubic metres of gas. It would then be one significant facility and we want to work with Russian partners and on... Well, you asked me about these projects. ) Dear People’s MP, you have asked the question of trade relations and who will protect our country. It is true that the European Union has as a plus for all its members that they appear as a block in the World Trade Organisation and thus are able to better provide their own interests. There is a group that is much stronger than any of these countries in particular. And that's why it's good in the commercial sense that our country provides access to the World Trade Organisation as soon as possible, and the plan is for that to happen by the end of 2008, but at the same time to ensure the preservation of the duty-free agreement that we have with the Russian Federation. He will, as we can see, hardly be ratified in the Duma. But last week, i.e. This week, a technical team of the Russian government was in Serbia with a good proposal for a legal basis for the agreement that leads to additional investment not only by Russian partners but also by Western partners, which are also interested in our country because, unlike other countries, we give them a duty-free access to the Russian Federation market and, in the other direction, the extension of the list of products contained in the duty-free agreement. I therefore expect that economic co-operation with the Russian Federation will grow significantly. Russia, of course, will not and does not want to interfere with our internal political opportunities. If in any way you've seen my exposure in that light, I apologize, that was not the intention. To conclude with what I started. Thank God our president is very well, he's as healthy as a dren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11636	Thank you. The parliamentary question has Dragan Todorovic. Here you go. Mr. Batic, I apologize. You are alone here, the SRS parliamentary group has another 40 reported. You think every time you ask a question then 40? No, I don't. So first they're going to ask a question from MPs who haven't had the chance to ask a question yet, and then you're going to get the word. Excuse me, Mr. Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after news of a visit from Bozidar Djelic to Russia and a statement by Georgi Poltavchenka, we have checked whether the news is correct. Because Russia is a serious state and, when it comes to such statements, it is strictly taken care of what is said. I claim this news, which has been placed over Beta, is untrue. This news, in fact, is aimed at an election campaign prepared by the Democratic Party. It is true that Georgia Poltavchenko said he would come to Serbia and that it had nothing to do with Russian President Mr Putin. And that's what Bozidar Djelic knows best. But unlike DS, we've never misused true information. Here, now that I've got a chance, I'll let you know. When a delegation of the Serbian Parliament, headed by Mr. Micunovic, with Mrs. Milica Markovic of the DSS, was a guest visiting the Assembly of the Independent States, Mr. Taroskin told us that the SRS was one of the most popular political parties from Serbia in talks with the Association of Independent States. I have to say, the truth is, the Secretary of the United States said it was his private and personal opinion and that in no way was Russia's official position, as this is not officially Russia's view either. And Mr. Bozidar Djelic will go out for the assembly pay phone and confirm that this has been said about Vladimir Putin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11638	Thank you. The next from the SRS is the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11639	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, dropped the book to one letter. Here, there's another one. We are missing a special minister of justice and a minister of the interior here today. They knew, of course, that we had special questions for them and that's why they didn't come, so they wouldn't have to answer the questions immediately. But, of course, we don't mind asking them questions and waiting for a written answer. These days we are witnessing mutual accusations between Mr Miroslav Miskovic and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, there is also Mrs Verica Barac, etc. We have all kinds of information. Mr. Miskovic claims that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic participated in his abduction, that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, in the name of the kidnapping, took five million marks from Mr. Miskovic's family. Today we saw in a newspaper that Mr. Bratislav Grubačić accused Cedomir Jovanovic of hiding weapons stolen from police stations on October 5, 2000. It also notes that he met him personally with Cedomir Jovanovic. The question I want to ask first of all Vojislav Kostunica, and then the minister of justice is: Why aren't certain measures taken by the authorities to determine what is true? Why does Cedomir Jovanovic not call on the authorities to appear before the authorities, to establish the truth and to finally clarify whether he was involved in the abduction of Mr Miskovic, did he take five million marks, which he shared five million marks with, did he hide the weapons he stole and which he stole on October 5th, and whether the authorities are not responding only because they are aware that this time leads directly to Zoran Djindjic, who was the head of Cedomir Jovanovic and who was the boss of the mafia at the time? Because then there was a single mob, there was no earthy and Surcinal, there was only one...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11640	Please, Mrs. Radeta, there's really no point in doing this. You're out of time, so you'll get back to me next time. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11641	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question, since it goes into the portfolio of several ministries, I ask the Government: How do workers whose companies have failedly been privatized, where privatisation contracts have been cancelled and have not yet gone bankrupt, to exercise the right to social and health insurance, the right to a health book, if they are not paid for social and health insurance for years? Also, I ask the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, or Minister Mladjan Dinkic: How many foreign and domestic privatisation advisers are engaged in the privatisation process from 1 January 2001 to 1 November 2007, and how taxing for each year? The next question for the same minister is: Due to the suspicion that the participants in the privatisation process committed commercial crimes, i.e. crimes, which number of offences and which number of criminal charges was filed by the Privatisation Agency in the period from 1 January 2001 to 1 November 2007? The third question is for the Minister of Faith: When will the Ministry announce the number of registered religious communities under the new Law on Churches and Religious Communities? Namely, all religious communities and NGOs who claim to be engaged in religious work had an obligation to apply for entry into the register no later than one year after the entry into force of this law, and with all additional deadlines, the process was already to be completed. Who sanctions the activities of those religious communities, or NGOs, who claim to be religious organizations, which are not registered under this law? Also, does the Resort Ministry, which means the Ministry of Faith, can provide us with a strategy to combat the destructive functioning of individual sects? The answer that there are no sects with destructive action is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11642	Thank you. Next up is MP Jovan Damjanovic. Here, until Parliamentarian Jovan Damjanovic arrives, I will explain to you, Mr Batic, - Rule 202z of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, saying: 'In the course of the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replications and references to the violation of the Rules of Procedure (Article. 100th and 101st. Rules of Procedure', and you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, according to Rule 100. So, it's been going on here all day. Mr Batic, as far as asking questions, you will first let MPs ask MPs who did not have the opportunity to ask parliamentary questions. It should allow everyone to ask a question. Here you go, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Honored Ministers, the Roma community in democratic Serbia has acquired rights. Rights acquired are in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. However, as far as we can see, those acquired rights are being violated in our country. Not from our country and from the Serbian people, who and how favored the Roma population in this Serbia, who have great sympathy for the friendly people, the historical people, etc., but from individuals in our country who have given themselves the right to do something that is neither democratic nor affirmative, but it is a monopolist system, a non-democratic system, a command system. So now I ask myself, "Why won't Mr. Markovic receive the MP?" If because I'm a Roma, in my opinion it's racial discrimination, and if he won't accept me for being a member of the SRS, then it's political retribution for me and for my party. It is terrible when a minister, elected to the democratic government, will not receive a MP. Now he said to me in the hallway, "You don't know anything." And now I ask you, Mr. Markovic, when you know, by what law, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you say that you need Verica to call you in order for you to receive me? If you have that constitution and the law, then I'll really say you're a smart man. Do you understand? I asked you, Mr. Minister, a month and a half ago, here's the fax that stands here, and I listed the Roma delegation of intellectuals who should be talking to you, Mr. Minister, about an extraordinary electronic assembly that doesn't exist. The extraordinary electronic congregation was valid at the time when we sought an extraordinary congregation, and when the mandate and the time came to the National Council of Roma, then there was no more extraordinary assembly. We ask that no extraordinary, but regular congregation be held. When other national minorities have appointed congregations to choose national councils, so will we. It is your will that you seek to hold a monopoly over the Roma people, which is not democratic. I'm just going to tell you that you can't listen to individuals and contact them. I'm also a representative of the Roma community, which you need to listen to. You are discriminating against me and my party. That's not allowed. And what you said, give me the law, I'll apologize to you. I also mean, misbehaving is, you say, according to the Hungarians who spoke to you here. Is this correct what you do to the Roma community? It's not right. I wanted to point out to you, Mr. Minister, the manipulations that were prepared to forge signatures, you didn't want to hear it. I asked Mrs. Samardgi to see me. You don't listen to anyone, you're arbitrary. But you're for the people, you're not for yourself. And let me tell you this: now there's been a falsification. There's a lot of falsified ballots. There are more voices than there are of Roma voters in this country. Who's going to answer for that, are you the potentiometer that you did and that you won't listen to another...?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11644	Time, Mr. Damjanovic, wrap it up. Thank you. After three other MPs from the SRS, they will have the right to ask another question. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11645	I was forced to ask a parliamentary question here to the Deputy Prime Minister since the finance minister is absent. The question is: Why is the Public Debt Administration not formed, under Article 32. The Public Debt Act, what did you have to do for two years? My question was inspired by your decision of October 22nd, published in Official Messenger No. 96, where you broadcast the state records of the Republic of Serbia worth eight hundred million dinars or ten million euros and said it was a state record issue of the Republic of Serbia. You referred to the Public Debt Act, which actually speaks of the broadcasting of long-term securities of value, and the ones you broadcast arrive in three months. Why are these securities being broadcast? It's meant to say they're for refinancing. Refinance implies that you have a problem with paying off your dues or that some guarantees have fallen on the burden. I ask: If the guarantees have fallen on the burden – who is it? The original debtors did not settle their obligations, so the state of Serbia, or the budget, must do so for them. Are you going to regress from them? Or, if it's taxpayers, I didn't see you cut their subsidies or grant in the budget for these purposes. The main question is, Mr. Vice President: If you have any debt settlement problems, how come the surplus Mr. Cvetkovic is talking about? You have a surplus, according to his confession, 39,152,000,000. Projected deficit of 14,000,000. You're in a surplus that you say you'll hold out for the rest of the year. Why are the records of this species being printed? What made you issue cash registers last year based on a deficit in the National Bank of 370.000 euros? So you owe the state to Serbia with records of credits. In the definition of the Public Debt Act it is called – debt. I am asking this because, in view of the adoption of the draft budget in the government and the remarks made by Governor Jelasic that you were doing so beyond the projected sizes in the Memorandum, you asked the question when Mr Jelasic thought you were paying back this year's debts to the budget. I repeat the question. Mr. Djelic asks the governor when the governor of the National Bank intends to repay this year's debts? On one of the shows, you said they were 50m euros. I ask: What kind of debts does the National Bank of Serbia have to do with the budget? How much does the National Bank of Serbia owe the budget? On what basis and who approved it, on what authority, under what conditions, on what time and for what purpose? What 24 banks have shed these 370,000,000 euros of the National Bank's shortcomings into their own funds and at the expense of their authorised persons?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11646	Thank you. He has the word of Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11647	Thank you. There are a few too many remarks in your question. I'd like to start with the public debt management system first and then come up with a few of the topics you've set here, and of course I'll end up with a question from the National Bank. We will provide you with further information from the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia in writing within the deadline provided for in Article 200. You're right, the Public Debt Administration should be formed. It is envisaged and, unfortunately, it is one of the institutions we should form and not yet formed. However, there is a sector in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia that deals with this, and that function is being performed. The next step should be one law that needs to be passed, because the law will also provide for specific powers of the Public Debt Administration, which will be part of the finance ministry. We're already working on that draft. Why is it that at the moment when the budget has a surplus, the records are being broadcast? I agree with you that this is seemingly illogical. The problem is next. At some point, even if you don't need that money, so it's not necessary for any refinance and there's no borrower who hasn't been able to pay the debt, so it hasn't been in the middle of any kind of activated guarantee of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the past seven years. That's very good for our country. All borrowers regularly repay debts, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its budget do not have to activate any guarantees. Also, what is sovereign debt and which returns from the Republic of Serbia's budget is served at the exact amount of the planned date. We actually have one small number of debts left that we still have to regulate. We have some bilateral debts, especially with countries like Kuwait and several others. But most of our debt is fully regulated and serviced. So why are there records being broadcast at this point, when we have a surplus? There are two key reasons. The first reason is that the state in all countries is a key player in the capital market, so it gradually becomes in Serbia as well. That so-called. The risk-free interest rate is actually the rate paid by the Republic of Serbia's budget on records bearing a sovereign guarantee, as is the case with the public debt being issued. This gives a reference in the capital market and that, by public debt, short-term and long-term papers, securities of value, and thus businesses and other institutions that have a slightly lower credit rating by nature, will then have a reference to which those who want to finance them will be able to measure interest and the conditions they can give them. In other words, the state gives a directorate to the capital market at any time. The second reason is that, when you're a state, at any time you have to have a diapazon source of funding. I mean, look what happened in the last four months. We had on the international capital market a significant increase in costs for those who want to be in charge of these markets because of a particular crisis, which began in the United States and which has now partially affected Europe as well. Thus, for our country, what seemed to be the most attractive source of funding, and these were loans that we could take, on commercial grounds, on the markets of capital in the west, becoming less attractive, and what sources of funding by international financial organisations, as the European Bank for Reconstruction, the World Bank, etc., became more interesting. Also, at any moment we have to have instruments to activate our domestic resources, and one way is to publish these records. Remember, this will certainly be discussed in the 2008 budget, with the budget forecasting a certain deficit. It's not big, it represents 0.8% of gross domestic product, but it will also require partial funding through those records. By the way, it's important for the state to be present. Second and last reason, I would agree with you here, Mrs. Tabakovic. If we start talking about the way our institutional investors invest money, whether it's funds, insurance companies, pension funds and banks, you'll see that this regulation predicts that they have to invest in the quality of the paper that almost completely points them to the state at this point. And there's another reason. Mr. Djelic, your time is running out. I'm finishing up, but there's something I need to say about the National Bank of Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that at this moment the state is issuing these records in part and that these institutional investors, where our citizens are investing in money, would have papers in which they can invest. We need to expand the capital market. It's not good for the state to be the only choice for these investors, and that's the job we're going to have to work on in the years to come. A few words I'd say, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, o...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11648	Your time is up. There's a word from MP Jorganka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11649	Let me say it again, let me get this straight, Mr. Vice President. (Mr. Nikolic, please, let me just say two words to him. ) Mr. Djelic, the refinance, as it says in the decision I am calling for – by law, has the sole purpose of paying off the outstanding debts and reaching guarantees. So what you're talking about - liquid liquidity, in liquidity, disorderly inflows, outflows - this has nothing to do with the purpose you've indicated. That's exactly what I asked. Is it illiteracy, there is no softer word, when it comes to publishing, or the intention to deceive citizens about your success, and to do what has been going on for years, which is that you are borrowing this state despite existing means? Let me draw a Serbian. The commercial bank was taken by Mr Dinkic from G 17 Plus. Who guarantees citizens, me and you, that funds are not held by the Commercial Bank, that from these funds to one of the founders, the EBRD, the funds are being rerouted by movements, what the state can do, by keeping foreign reserves or carrying out, by moving free, as it goes all the time, and that the same money is coming back to us – as international loans, which from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which, through various German development banks, is 9% on an annual basis? I'm telling you that in the National Bank's report on the sources of funds that are being placed on this field, you have proof of the claim I'm making. You have proof of how much savings the Serbian citizens made during the week of their savings. 410,000,000 euros were deposited. These are sources, not their own banks, but sources entrusted to banks for what is the healthiest -- saving and developing this country. But you made it possible for foreign banks to make enormous profits on the basis of our sources, and on the other hand, by mismanagement, because you don't have a Public Debt Authority, you charge budget money to individuals, and I'm going to prove it to you in the budget debate. By rerouting money, the way you do it, through funds, vaults of banks you have control over -- evidence of that is the loss of the National Bank, which has agreed to a completely accurate address. And, please, don't mix long-term paper with the short-term. If it's to cover the debts, everyone who exceeds the budget year is long-term. The maturity is here for three months. It's a short-term record of value. What are you trading for? Quality papers. Which place? Well, the kids know they're trading on the stock market. You made the Central Register a place to shop. You know why? Because Mladjan Dinkic played you on the stock market with the National Savings Officer when he sold you to the National Bank of Greece by electronic fraud at such a high price of action in which the state lost a lot. And now the National Bank has come to realize that the trading of its securities is done online in the purchase of, directly, the computer of the National Bank -- the computer of the business bank, that whoever enters the trade card would be responsible for you and others not to bring it out to the public. We can only get that information as collected at the National Bank, where your friends and financials are hidden, and any more serious enterprise has to publish its balance, its supplies, the state of each account, because it's wanted as a verifiable and transparent business. This country has to start doing business transparently. I'm telling you, and I promise that the MPs of the SRS will allow it to be checked out by your work this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11650	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11651	We share the goal, and I can't help but recall the state of public finances that I found when I became Minister of Finance after your authority. Which was a destruction, many special accounts, no vaults at all, half the budget, public finances were scattered, broken down, we had two and a half years of age for child benefits. So, please, this is a highly sophisticated discussion, but respecting some transparency, I think it would be an object for a little longer conversation. I want to answer the second part of your question. First, as far as the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it intervenes and refinances for the reasons I have mentioned. The market needs one such paper for the reason that we have created new institutions that need to finance high-quality paper. Unfortunately, for now, except for the Serbian Treasury, there are not many of them. Another reason is that we must be present as a country in the capital market in order to maintain that reference interest in the future. As far as the National Bank of Serbia is concerned, that's what I was talking about. The National Bank changed its monetary goal in September last year. They're not targeting the course anymore, they're targeting inflation. It is a monetary regime that has spread in Europe today. He has a large number of advantages and the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks it should continue on that path. The key instrument used with such monetary policy is, where the course targets, by almost the nature of things, the rate of the mandatory reserve. The minimum reserve rate is the defacto tax charged by the central bank because it mobilises the funds of our economy and our citizens, does not pay interest on it and thus draws liquidity to maintain price stability. The second regime is this regime of targeted inflation, where the National Bank of Serbia relied on so-called. market interventions. Through the emissions of their records and through the interest they paid, they were pumping up the system's excess liquidity and it was true that it cost about 300,000 euros. As I said, we will ask the National Bank of Serbia, since it is independent and independent, to provide information on how these funds have been used. It is clear that this is how much it costs to maintain price stability. It's not a secret, and in those interviews you've read, I see that you read these interviews very carefully, I said that I think at this point of targeted inflation, when there's a significant inflow of investments, and no one is going to complain about it in our country, for this year we expect about three billion dollars, meaning two billion euros, and that no larger privatisation is realised, and at the moment when public spending, I would agree with you that it might be something lower, we have pressure on strengthening the course of the dinar towards the euro, which is not good for the long term. The way the National Bank of Serbia fights to raise prices is to pump liquidity by giving relatively attractive interest on their papers. It costs, and I don't think there's any need to look for controversy and dirt where it's not there. It's monetary policy. There, Mrs. Tabakovic, you have one good point, that the market is so-called primary traders in state papers where and in highly developed markets there could have been some abuses, and we must, that is, to ensure transparency in the way in which these papers are traded in the primary exchange. After that, it comes to the market and there are no bigger problems, since everything goes through the stock market. In other words, the situation in debt management is incomparably better than it was before. I gave you a few digits this morning. Serbia's public debt, the one where there is a sovereign guarantee, fell below 30% of gross domestic product, which is four times less than in 2000. Four times less debt guaranteed by our budget than it was in 2000. It is a great success and therefore we are among the best in our region. On the other hand, at the same time, and it is not true that foreign banks have brought out more than they have, the European Bank has no deposits from the National Bank of Serbia. We have a huge inflow of capital and that is something that has made it possible to develop our capital market and the banking sector significantly, so that this situation is much more favourable than anyone could possibly show it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11652	Thank you. The answer to an additional explanation, MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic. Here you go. The parliamentary question is then asked by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club, and will then be asked by MPs from smaller parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11653	Mr. Djelic, you haven't answered me on what basis the National Bank owes the budget. That's the first one. Secondly, Jelasic is sitting in your government, and you didn't bring him here. Why isn't there a public debt management? Jelasic is justified that the exchange rate difference and currency risk led to such a loss of the National Bank. Who was obliged to manage the course? What kind of global crisis in the currency course has led to the National Bank's loss? Don't insult intelligence. So we don't have the Public Debt Administration in mind, because there's no one to explain these remarks. Curvature differences are the problem of the exporter, not the governor. He's obliged to take care of it along with you when you suggest we take credit here. You don't know, Mr. Djelic, that guarantees fell on the burden of Serbia's budget last year. And in this year we have planned funds to pay off guarantees that fall on the burden. They fell last year, too. We even paid the penalty points for the unpunished funds. You're talking about a mandatory reserve. Are you justifying Mr. Jelasic? In the last year, the NBS reduced the mandatory reserve from 60% to 45% of foreign banks using short-term credit lines from their queens on those loans 'live over your options, take more than you can pay off'. You made it possible for citizens to owe such short-term cash to loans, and today you're worried. So the mandatory reserve for that purpose has been reduced. I'm not talking in my head, I'm talking about the decisions of the National Bank. What's scariest is that there's an increased reserve on foreign currency deposits from 40% to 45%. You don't stimulate the economy to hold foreign deposits but it costs more and more banks and businesses, and you reduce the mandatory reserve, so you're cheap, you're stimulating short-term cash loans. Who runs this country's macroeconomic policy? Equally irresponsible is the National Bank and the Government of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11654	Mr. Djelic, you have no right to speak. The MP is the last one, he makes a comment on your answer. The parliamentary question, MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club, and then MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11655	I am taking advantage of the opportunity that there is a Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to publicly convey one question that I have received today from our friends from the administration of the President of Russia, from our Serbian friends—when I say ours, I do not mean radicals and myself personally—to help them, Mr. Djelic, resolve a dilemma and doubt. Is it true that Serbian Deputy Prime Minister today said in the Serbian Parliament that DS candidate for Serbian President Boris Tadic has the support of Vladimir Putin, president of Russia? They just want to know if it's true that you said it. I wasn't in the O.R., I couldn't tell if you said it or not. That's one question. Secondly, Mr. Djelic, when you were presented here in 2001 as a man of extraordinary financial abilities, with a huge salary in Paris, which he generously leaves to come to Serbia to work for a salary of some 200 marks, we were truly sorry, we were delighted with the gesture of the great patriot, who, behold, will have to learn the language, all the declines, and will help Serbia restore and refresh its finances. Meanwhile, it has proved that you have used your mandate to gain a huge fortune in Serbia, a fortune measured at tens of millions of euros. I have an intimate question for you, Mr. Djelic: How is it your soul when you negotiate with trade unions asking you for eight or ten percent increase in their salaries so that their children have at least part of what children have in Europe, and how do you tell them that they can't get increased personal incomes because the state of Serbia can't handle it, and you could get those increased incomes and the state of Serbia has endured it? And while we're here, I'm interested in what price do you get edible oil?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11656	Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11657	Four things. First, today I only mentioned that Mr. Poltavchenko, who runs the Central Federal District, the Moscow region, which is the largest in Russia, said that President Putin would come to Serbia after the victory of our current president for the future. I didn't say Russia supports Tadic. The Russian Federation is a serious country. The Ambassador of the Russian Federation came to congratulate Tomislav Nikolic when he was elected president of this house. Also, Mr. Putin's party invited the DSS delegation to Moscow for its congress and yesterday Mr. Poltavchenko said what I just said. The Russian Federation, like any serious country, does not intend or should interfere with our country's internal political issues. That's what I said and I repeat here. I can say that the issue of presidential elections is, in any case, the question of the trust of our citizens and not the support of this or that country, and it is clear to all who will win the second round of presidential elections, at least for me and for most of our citizens it is clear. As for the second question, I'm not someone who can't figure out what it is to not have. And I'm often criticized that sometimes I'm too emotional and, perhaps, too direct. Here you go, it's already on its way. I want to say that in that diaspora too, I have lived a part of my life in poverty and know what it is when it is gone. I'd be the happiest if we could make sure today for our citizens, our peasants, our government employees, our workers -- that we could provide a much better life. It's my dream, I'm working on it. I didn't cost our country anything. What I've earned has been reported, even your party has gone before the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and have seen that I have respected the law. The source of my money is the third largest bank in the world. That money was paid out of their funds, not from Serbia, so I was in no way a burden on our country. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: You saved from your aunt's pension. Leave my aunt alone. My mother passed away - and leave her alone. As far as the third question is concerned, Zaytin's expensive, and now it costs 110 dinars. This morning, Mr. Bubalo said that we have opinions in the government that this one branch should be pro-pulsive in our country, that because we have a lot of sunflowers and processing capacity, it should have become much more powerful and exportable. Unfortunately, we find asymmetry. In other words, when gender is good - prices do not drop, when gender is slightly lower - prices rise at a lightning speed and costs rise completely to the final consumer. I announce, as well as my colleague Bubalo, that there will be a contingent of duty-free imports. If the current structure isn't able to lower those prices on its own, we'll help her. If that is not enough, I also announce that we will examine this protection, customs, which is 30%, and the levies, which give comfortable protection to an industry that, unfortunately, at this point does not justify the trust of the state and our citizens. Finally, the National Bank of Serbia, since I have not been able to answer this question, owes just over four billion dinars for now. By the end of the year, five billion dinars will be owed. The reason we were given is because these interventions on the open market cost no money to pay and budget, and what they owed was interest on the deposits of the Republic of Serbia's Treasury. I want to remind you that, when I was Minister of Finance, I initiated that change so that the Republic of Serbia's budget did not hold money in business banks -- there were always questions about who is holding, why, under what conditions -- and to fully withdraw and transfer it to the account of the Republic of Serbia's Treasury to the NBS. So finally the central bank became our country's bank. It's not a good thing the National Bank doesn't pay back the money and the indications are they'll start returning it very soon. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11658	Thank you. Comment on the answer, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11659	I'm pleased that I'm going to be able to show the people in Moscow who claim it's not true, so let them decide whether the government is lying, whether you lied to Beta or if someone was present with what you said. One other thing, the Duke of Meridian Bank. You didn't report your income, we did. You would never report them, nor did you report them to Boris Tadic, who went mad for ten days. And secondly, the Committee found that there was a conflict of interest, that you did not report revenue. Now I'm interested: if you don't have that Meridian bank action anymore, how did it happen to trade those shares? I followed closely, they didn't show up on the stock market. Is there any other way to trade the shares of a bank or exclusively on the stock market, the Duke of Meridian? And secondly, is it clear to you that you took advantage of the period during which you were Minister of Finance and the period during which you were known to be back in government, that only for the short time when you had power over the president of Serbia and his embassies across the cities of Serbia, and you were formally in opposition to earn tens of millions of euros? Mr. Djelic, we're talking about tens of millions of euros. If the bank is worth a hundred and a few million euros, if you have 10% that you received from the service bank, executed only in a short period between the two ministerial mandates, then we are talking about dozens of millions of euros. Last night I watch: The government boasts that it gives 6,000 euros per employee to companies that bought our failed companies, so it wants to rebuild production. Six thousand euros per worker. You give the best engineers, the best economists, the best craftsmen 200 euros per year of internships in the factories you've ruined. Two hundred euros a year. And you made tens of millions of euros in a year. Tens of millions of euros. Show me the paper on which those shares or actions changed property. They're not yours anymore. I'd like to see whose they are now, see the paper on which the transaction was made, and see how much they were worth. It is for me the minister's relationship to the MP. Mr. Minister, answer me. First, how did you get that capital from Meridian Bank? What kind of favor was it? Second, where are those stakes you had at Meridian's bank now? How did they change property, in a law-based way or in an illegal way? Have you been paid in cash or have you now acquired some other property, which is why we're going to have to search again? Of course, we've come to own property in Meridian Bank. You yourself know that every property in the bank is available to the public in some way, although you hide the data. Now I'm interested in where he got involved, where did this money of yours from the Meridian Bank split up? Until we know that, you are not at all authorized to discuss social problems with us in this country and to tell us how you found the country in chaos. The truth is that you haven't grown since you arrived in 2001, you've grown your property, but from this pay phone you've spoken louder, more bile, louder then today, because you're on the wallpaper today. Mr. Djelic, this Serbia will one day start living normally. And now I'm only interested in one thing: why are you the only government minister, Zoran Djindjic, who is still in the Democratic Party and in the environment of Boris Tadic? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: and Slobodan Milosavljevic. ) Yes, and Slobodan Milosavljevic. And there's a reason. When Slobodan Milosavljevic comes, I'll tell him why. But I'm telling you why you are. You're one of the DS's top finance guys. But that's half-drink, half-chart gives. It's about your function, you who have the money, that you fought to take over public enterprises, that you fought to take over banks, you who have budgets and budget incomes. For the budget debate, we have prepared to explain everything to you, that the people (I apologize, I am finishing), that the citizens of Serbia finally understand how you rob them. It's a robbery of unprecedented proportions. This time in Serbia, there's nothing to rob. And you haven't finished your job yet. And what you're arguing with Russia is going to cost you a lot of money politically. I guarantee you that now. (It will be, it will be in Serbia. You either lied, Mr. Djelic, or Russia started to do what the United States is doing - to interfere with our business and favour the candidate party that wants to join NATO. Believe me, I'm not that crazy to trust you. Russia won't cut its own noose now that it says it won't cut its hands off and watch NATO expand. The fact that NATO is expanding is meant by Serbia and you know it very well. If you thought you were fighting Russia with Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You haven't had a better time, Mr. Djelic. But this statement of yours will be the target and backbone of major and difficult negotiations on how to live in Serbia in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11660	Thank you. The next turn to ask the question is LDP representative, MP Vladan Batic. Then in front of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, head of the parliamentary club and then again, SRS MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11661	I'm a representative of the DHSS, that's one thing... (President: I apologize. )......................................................................................................... Second, Mr. President, allow me just a few remarks that won't count on me in time. There have been several injuries to the Rules of Procedure here. There have been injuries to the dignity of the National Assembly by claiming that the late prime minister is the boss of the mob. Here MPs are asking on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the people, and unfortunately, if only one member of the government sits here, then it is mocking the citizens, or mocking the people, then the government cannot claim to be democratic. Now, if you'll allow me to ask a question. (President: Please. These are questions for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. I was approached today by a delegation or representatives of the strike committee of Toplici County military reservers. As you know, thousands of people have responded to mobilization during NATO intervention, at the time of the war that was waged in these areas. Some of them have collected some of the journals they're entitled to, some haven't. Most of them are not paid for anything. Some started the proceedings, got the fees. Others began the proceedings, then came the decision of the Civilian Department of the Supreme Court, and then the matter was in the way. These people are turning into second-class citizens. Imagine an ugly and sad picture when they sleep outside the government building. While some have received benefits, apartments, huge salaries, all honours, those who are heroes and heroes, generals, etc., those people who did not flee, are not deserters, who put their country in, when she called them, for a favor, now break the thresholds. That must stand in the way and their elemental rights must be met. I will ask that their delegation also be accepted by Minister Petrovic and Serbian President Mr Tadic. I hope he understands them, especially when he was the Secretary of Defense. Now something else. Mr. Djelic, when you answer questions, your answers should be honest and honest. When I said today that you were for the government in which you now said it was the first democratic government, you denied it. I'll quote what you said, Mr. Djelic, on August 30th about a hundred days of government. You said, "Vojislav Kostunica is the only pro-democracy prime minister, and his ministers are the first true majority pro-European democratic government since the fall of Milosevic". Mr. Djelic, this is true. Find a stenogram from the government's session. It was an open session of the government. Therefore, none of your party's MPs here react when this same one, Zoran Djindjic, is called a mobster. Mr. Djelic, you can tell someone else something that's not true. I know both the beginning and the end. I haven't changed. Tell me honestly, Mr. Djelic, did you ask the late prime minister to make up for your moving expenses, so the cost of the dispute you had over your family status? What stories of profits and millions you came to Serbia with? You can tell that to someone else, because I'm a witness to these events. When you say your hands are clean, don't, for some people, mention some of the companies that you've been stretching, because then I'd have to talk about Citadel and some other companies and I'd give you a million data. It's an abuse of function. You should be ashamed of yourself, because Zoran Djindjic created you, and now step on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11662	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11663	When a man thinks he sees the bottom, there's more underneath. I told the government on a hundred days that this government has a chance in the sense that it's the first majority. Unfortunately, the government you and I were in, Mr. Batic, didn't have much of it very soon. She may have formally had a few months to pass some laws, but, as we saw very quickly, we did not have the sincere support of our coalition partners. That's what I was gonna say. As for Zoran Djindjic, I am not fighting for his historical figure by trying to adopt him, saying that this or what he said to me, but fighting in a much more direct way for the Serbia he dreamed of and those words he said. He said that Serbia is European, advanced in that future where we will all meet. And every day of my action, and the way that we, the Ministers of the Democratic Party, entered the first session of the government through the entrance where he fell, and not just a minute of silence, but the thoughts we had at that moment were that we would fight to make that dream a reality. It is my dream and I will fight for such a Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, and not in some pathological way adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11664	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11665	I don't know why you're upset, Mr. Djelic. You're in pain of truth, obviously. I'm not going to say and use the terms: bottom bottom, pathology and the like. That's what it says about you. I speak not to you, but to the citizens of Serbia. You forgot that you were in the government with those who said that Zoran Djindjic was exactly the biggest criminal and traitor, with those who said "Laki was a little nervous," with those who said that the shooting at the Limes Hall was a family fight with all those who did everything so that Zoran Djindjic wouldn't be, joining with the anti-Hazi lobby, with the Zemun clan, with various tycoons who robbed and harass Serbia and with all those who believed that when Djindjic did not, he would not go to The Hague, he would not go to jail and will be able to rob Serbia further. It's that majority government of yours. I don't know what the majority government means. The government of Zoran Djindjic had a much bigger majority than this one, rather than saying how. In this government's leg, he doesn't think well. This is where the government is divided into two parts, and that's what the birds on the branch know. Mr. Djelic, you can't tell me those fairy tales. Because, I said, I was coming back from the welcome of the Serbian New Year from Paris on January 15th, you were coming to Belgrade, you spoke to me on the plane. I know of your standard, of your power at the time, at the time of the start of a fight for democratic Serbia. Mr. Djelic, Zoran Djindjic has created you. Well, your family didn't know you until you joined the government of Zoran Djindjic. Therefore, you must stand still before him, not those who have done all that is necessary, that he may be no more, and that you may be a Seizure and a chalice in such a government. This is where some fight started about Russia and Putin. Here, let me tell you, yesterday, So Raska made a decision to declare Putin an honorary citizen of Raska. I don't mean anything by Raska or the people of Raska. They voted in favour of that decision and the DS committees. So, the chase around the character and the work of Putin has begun. Not belittle Raska, I fear Putin will be disappointed, that he has become an honorary citizen of a very small town, not some great capital, etc. I see you've started dealing with Putin, Russia, etc. Mr. Djelic, instead of the term 'bottom', it would be fair to answer the questions that make you uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11666	The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Excuse me, Ivica Dacic. After Mr. Ivica Dacic, a word and the right to a parliamentary question has a People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11667	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to, of course, participate in this debate on whether Putin should be an honorary citizen or not. I'd just like to remind you that in the municipality of Raška is in the power of the SPS, not alone, of course, but with other parties, and that is one of the few municipalities where we are constantly in power for many years. Someone would have said that since 1945. In any case, there are other parties that respect these traditions from 1945 to 1990. So I don't want to be the only one who cultivates those traditions. But that's not why I answered. I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister a question, given that he's the only government representative here right now. This is one of the few sessions where we have the opportunity to ask parliamentary questions, which is one of the institutions that has been scheduled before in the Rules of Procedure, but has not been respected. Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who served as finance minister when the Insurance Act was adopted, told SPS lawmakers that "Dunav Insurance" and DDOR Novi Sad will not be privatised. Since I see from the media that it's going to privatise the DDOR, I ask the question: When has this decision been changed? It was one of the conditions and ways and reasons why the law even passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, if he then promised the finance minister that there would be no privatisation of the Danube and the DDOR, what is now the change in the position of the same government, in which only DS ministers are new? Second question. The president of the Republic and the president of your party, whose candidate you were for prime minister, Boris Tadic, held in consultations with all parliamentary groups prior to giving the mandate for, practically, the formation of the government of the Republic of Serbia, spoke with the SPS delegation. In the talks, the president of your party and the president of the Republic said that the DS was and will be against the privatisation of the majority package of public enterprises actions. I ask you to answer: Do you really think that, is it the DS's position, or do you disrespect your president's position, or is it a different position that you have now when you exercise power in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I would like to repeat once again that the SPS is most strongly opposed to privatising the majority package of public enterprises actions and in this respect we support all the demands of workers and all those citizens who did not exercise the right to action they had in those times before. This is a very important and essential question. You know there are parties in the government that advocate rapid privatisation and full privatisation of all public enterprises. I want you to plead here, in your answer: are you up for it or are you against it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11668	I thank the People's MP to Ivica Dacic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11669	Mr. Dacic, you have asked two important questions, and it concerns our insurance markets and public enterprises. I will remind you first that in 2003, if you are well served by memory, I have spent a good part of my time fighting that the DDOR does not take over one fund from Cyprus and one Slovenian brokerage house for a total sum of four and a half million euros, for the reason we saw, at the last moment, when they almost reached 50% of the vote, that, behold, by some miracle, they forgot to enter social capital. If you're talking about the traditions of 1945, I guess I was last appointed, at one of the government's sessions, as the patron of social capital so I could defend our country's interests and avoid taking over, for nothing, one of our key institutions that, as well as now, had 35% of the market. The previous government has made a decision to go to the privatisation of the DDOR. As we have seen, this week a large Italian insurance company has appeared which has offered a certain amount of 83% of the capital that has been pooled there. What was offered is far from what was almost gone in 2003, if I may put it this way, for four or five million euros. The bid was about 180,000,000 euros. At this point, the finance ministry has already announced this, negotiations are being held to improve the offer. If the offer is not sufficiently improved, the procedure will be repeated. I am a supporter of our country's preservation of an insurance company, in this case "Dunav", as one of the backbones of development not only of our capital market but also of our economy in general. Because insurance companies have the possibility, as they receive long-term resources, to invest on a long-term basis, and thus, as seen in many countries, responsible and socially developed, were able to stabilise the action of important companies and banks. It's one model that I think is meant for our country and that's why we shouldn't privatise the Danube in the near future. As for public enterprises, I'm very close to your position, because what is not liberalized and has elements of the monopoly, we're not going to replace the state monopoly with a private monopoly. And not just that. We need to ensure that regulatory bodies, which regulate market functioning, really work before we even think about opening up capital. The DS was during the campaign, and I know that the SPS and many other parties later joined it, reminded that our law provides that citizens who did not participate in the privatisation process have the possibility, including public enterprises. Those who work in these companies, or have worked, must have certain privileges because it is not the same to be a student without any day of employment and get the same as someone who worked 30-35 years in a given company. There's got to be a proper balance and we're working on it. So, no majority privatisation where there's a monopoly. But on the other hand, there's a question that I'm going to ask you, which I'm going to say to you because it's a lot of talk about, which is, for example, The Jat Erveiz case, which has competition, which is important for our country, but not strategically, not in the way in which NIS, EPS or Telekom are important. It seems to me that, in that case, there are a lot of arguments that this privatisation can be a majority one, but with the preservation of our country's significant rights, because we can't disintegrate ourselves from the JAT case. Because the way the future strategic partner organises business, especially ensuring that Belgrade and Nis are regional air transport centres, is of first-class importance for our country's development. So, around public enterprises, careful, meaningful, no rush. We must think carefully because it is one of the most important foundations for the development of our economy, which we can use wisely and that it will give us an additional momentum for the development of our country and for the generations to come. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11670	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11671	Thank you. Says our people, Mr. Djelic, listen to this proverb - who lies and steals, who steals the sea to prison - Mr. Djelic. I will now meet the public of Serbia, above all, since Djelic, as the only representative of the government, came out, as Bozidar Djelic, who responded to Mr Tomislav Nikolic for a asked parliamentary question, lied. Namely, between 15:45 and 15.55 p.m., in the case of jesinograms of today's session, Mr Djelic said like this: "I just don't want to get into any controversy. More than once, when we talk about health and health, the health issue of Serbian President Boris Tadic was raised. It's great. I wondered where our fellow radicals got so much health care. I think I know why. Because yesterday, the right hand of President Vladimir Putin, Mr. Poltavchenko, who heads the Central, Moscow-based region of the Russian Federation, said Vladimir Putin accepted our Boris Tadic's invitation to come and visit Serbia, but said he would do so and congratulate President Tadic when he won the elections. That way you can see clearly, and I know that some cannot like it: it is clear where Russia's support is." This is Mr. Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, saying. When Mr Tomislav Nikolic drew his attention to it, he said it completely differently. Apparently, Mr. Bozidar Djelic lied. Just one more sentence, since this controversy was tied to, as she says, the care of the health radical. Yes, SRS MPs were asking the president of the Republic of Serbia today, to ask nicely to obtain the proper documentation with VMA, to find out what happened to Boris Tadic's health condition. I must tell you that as a man, I feel sorry for Boris Tadic as a man, but we all must, above all, take care of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia because the health situation of Boris Tadic is such that it can seriously and dangerously endanger Serbia and Serbia's national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11672	The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is to the MUP. There's no one present, but I'll read my question anyway. You were probably informed of November 28th, as well as of the importance that the date, as the flag day of Albania, has for the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija and the south of central Serbia. You are also obliged to have knowledge of the incidents that occurred in Presevo and Bujanovac last year. A national flag of Serbia was removed from the municipality building in Presevo, which was then dumped and trampled by the group of Shipara. Instead of Serbian, three Albanian flags were set. Also, in Bujanovac, a large group of Shipara broke into the SO building and brutally beat up porter Pavel Nikolic, who works to secure the municipality building. Afterwards, the same group, on the second floor of the building, entered the premises of one municipal chief, broke down the balcony door, with an Albanian flag pointed out, and the state Serbian flag was torn and removed. And that's not all. The town of Bujanovac was paralyzed by vandalism of mass and people who openly insulted the state of Serbia and mentioned some major Albania. After that, nothing arrived at the Presevo Municipal Court in connection with the incident although there are several grounds for this, while the Bujanovac police provided their report and reports against unknown perpetrators. Citizens of Presevo and Bujanovac who respect their country expect Serbia to be protected from such phenomena. So I'm asking you from the MUP, what are you going to do to make sure that the rerun of this incident doesn't happen again on November 28th of this year? That's less than a week from now. Will you again, as you did last year, approve this anti-state and anti-constitutional rally and thus fully support Cypriot terrorism in southern Serbia? Will you again silently and uninformedly, as you can, rescind new incidents or protect your country and people from violence? I warn you, it is your duty to protect the respect of the Serbian Constitution. That's why I ask you to do everything you can to make sure that the citizens of Bujanovac and Presheva feel safe. With your irresponsible behaviour so far, you only continue to encourage the eviction of Serbs from the south of central Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11674	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. The People's Messenger Marko Milenkovic has the word, and after him is the MP of the people Lidija Vukicevic. Here you go, Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11675	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it concerns the citizens of the Toplic district who were mobilized in 1999 during NATO aggression, then courageously defend and defend the state, and now they have experienced the same rights because they have different judgments in the same lawsuits. I remind you that the judges of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, as participants of the war, have been sued, convicted and charged their daily papers along with their relatives, friends and fewer other fighters, and then these same judges rejected other fighters' claims while at the same time they were handling some of the lawsuits positively. Such selective application of rights has also occurred in Prokuplje. The fighters involved were protesting peacefully in the centre of Prokupje on June 18th to distract you from ending this legal violence. Then, for a few days in Kursumlia, they strike hunger for those, above all, peaceful protests to continue in Merdar and here in Belgrade, in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia. As a representative of all Toplice citizens, I reacted on September 17th, referring to the parliamentary question of what will happen to these citizens because it is a large number of lawsuits. There is almost no house in Toplica that has not sent one of the family to Kosovo and Metohija. Then, after a straight 40 days from the government, I received a vague and comprehensive response in the style of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. After a lengthy theorisation, the Prime Minister answers that an educated inter-resor working group to discuss this issue, and that the Ministry of Justice has supervised the work of the District Court in Prokuplje and municipal courts in Prokuplje and Kursumlia, that they have been given orders on surveillance measures etc., but is not talking about the results that have occurred. Protests, here, continue to this day, and the problem is not solved. What are the results of your months of activities in solving this problem? When will you, as a serious government of the serious state, address war participants with a final view and will you seriously examine the work of the courts or is it just another one of your pre-election promises? Why does Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and his President, Boris Tadic, not clearly and loudly tell these people how they will solve this problem? Is that what the presidential election is waiting for? The Assembly's Committee for Presentations and Proposals, led by Serbian Radical Dragan Colic, (and I will finish very quickly), supported the reserver's legitimate demands and asked the Supreme Court to speed up the court's proceedings as much as thirty days ago and to this day there are no results. You have to understand something: all these people want is to be equal in front of the Constitution and the law. These are the usual norms of all civilized societies. Discrimination of these people has to stop and they have to get adequate legal satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11676	The People's Messenger Lidija Vukicevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic. After Momir Markovic, the word is given by MP Zarko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11677	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, the subject that I will now say a little more about, and from which questions will arise for the government is the topic I have made several times in my previous speeches, but now I would like to say a little more detail about it and get to know you, wanting and thinking that they will understand and understand all those who, of course, want this country well, who are fighting for the preservation of our history, our cultural heritage and, above all, the protection of all our citizens. So, I'm talking about the unique and only foundry that has a certificate, the first Serbian bell-liner and special alloys "Jevrem Popovic", which was founded in 1832. This meadow existed and worked in France No. Fifty. I speak in the past, existed and worked, but I didn't use a plus-squamperfect, or a long time ago, because this meadow, as I said, is unique not only in these areas but in all of Europe, in the past time, i.e. in communism, there was, with no one destroying or destroying the exhibits. The space was confiscated and used for the Mine factory. At a time when fascists, the Germans, entered Belgrade, realizing that they were very important and valuable exhibits, no one touched them. Also, during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, this plant worked. But what happened? This meadow was destroyed on 31.08.2007 at 05.10 a.m. to the ground. The owners, who are usually educated cliffs (I just have to say that 40 years ago we don't have educated ballots), are physically attacked, and not only is the building destroyed, so the object as an object, but absolutely all the exhibits, so all the bells, all the things that were owned by that billet -- were isolated. In order to have an insight into how important and how important this is, I must say that, from many exhibits, a ship's bell came out of the year 1207, brought from China; a church bell from 1878, a gift from King Milan to Gornjak; a church bell from Timisore in 1900, a rare production with caves of a violin key, a unique bell in the world. Not to mention, church bells from Russia, from 1912, 1914 and 1916, candidia and more. So who needed to tear down this facility that way? Really, I have to say it's vandalism. Why is it down? It's broken down to use that space for residential, business and garage space. I'll just have one more thing, I'll finish, very briefly. What's very important and very important is waste matter. So if an object, such as this foundry, is destroyed, it must have an embodies or a crash warrant. He didn't have a lab and he didn't have a crash warrant. Three tons of oil went into the sewer. Many animals and many plants have died. White phosphorus and other acids were dumped somewhere in an X-Ypsylon dump. There, that's the question. For this he is directly and personally responsible director of the Property Directorate, Mr. Tomic, because he was also familiar with before the collapse, and when they threatened to destroy people after the crash. I'm just going to tell you that, if we want to, and if we're getting closer to Europe, the European Union has come up with a draft that sets aside 28,000,000 euros to protect all these crafts. However, we did not respect it. We've allowed this thing to be destroyed. If you've traveled around the world, gentlemen of the Ministers, I hope you've traveled, I'm sure you have, you've seen that in the middle of Paris there's a barbershop of eight hundred and I don't know exactly what years they've been guarding and admiring. In the middle of Toronto, you have a stable that is also guarded and considered a historical site, a cultural heritage, and not to speak of Insbrook and Grasmayer. That's familiar. We stand for the preservation of cultural heritage, and here's what we do. So I would ask the culture minister to answer, "Why is this meadow, unique in the world, and why are we tearing down our cultural heritage?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11678	The word is Dragan Todorovic. Mr. Markovic, I'm sorry, Dragan Todorovic had a direct question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. Since there was no Mr. Djelic, then the other speakers began. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I question Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, as news has been released that in Brussels on 7 November 2007, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement for Serbia to the European Union. I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to tell the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens: What kind of agreement is this? Here's the thing. News has been reported that Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic has initialled an agreement that applies to part of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, that he will especially be initialled with Kosovo and Metohija, and that Bozidar Djelic allegedly accepted that informal Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija join the European Union together. A particular problem is that news has surfaced in the news about Jelko Kacina, you remember, was determined to report on the situation in Serbia. The concerned Jelko Kacin said there are no politicians in Serbia who are not aware that Kosovo will be independent. Since Jelko Kacin does not contact Serbian radicals, he is in contact with those who are for the so-called "Serb Radicals". Euro-Atlantic integration is likely to have come to the conclusion in talks with them. I received an answer to the question that this agreement has not yet been translated, that there are 500 pages etc. I don't need the whole deal. All I need is this little information: Is it true that a paraphrased agreement relating to a part of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11680	The word is Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11681	As far as the nature of the agreement is concerned, it is a contractual relationship that our country is entering with the European Commission, and the European Commission has received the support of all 27 member states. In that sense, there are clauses according to which this contract can be changed and also cancelled. In other words, this is the first step towards other steps that will follow, and this esteemed home was adopted some time ago and the resolution according to which it is our desire to join the European Union, but of course, to join the European Union will require a referendum. As far as the status of Kosovo and Metohija is concerned, it is clear that all the formulations have been made with our colleagues from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and with our legislation, that as far as our country is concerned about those provisions that we agree on, we are talking about where our administration has jurisdiction, and it has been observed and put in order, you will see, I expect that as soon as we finish the translation and after certain opinions, which will be given by various ministries, the government will adopt this agreement. Of course, I intend to come with the whole team, explain this text, discuss it, see all the gains our country can count on. As for Kosovo and Metohija, this part of our territory is currently in line with United Nations Resolution 1244, under UNMIK administration. It doesn't prejudge anything at all. I don't have any informal discussions with anyone. We are working on the basis of a resolution adopted by this House, a platform adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when negotiations began in November 2005 and, of course, the government will establish the text of the agreement and empower me to sign it on behalf of our government. In other words, as Olli Rehn himself said, whom you mentioned, the processes of European integration and the issue of resolving the status of our southern province are two separate processes. We are not asked to make any concessions on Kosovo to move faster towards Europe. Why isn't it wanted? Is it because someone loves us? No, I don't. It's because everyone sees that they won't find anyone responsible for violating the Constitution, violating two resolutions of this home, the negotiating platform of our negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija and our state policy, and that it will be counterproductive. None of us ask us to trade Kosovo for the sake of Europe, nor will any member, nor will I, ever accept it. As far as Jelko Kacina is concerned, he is not a negotiator in this process. He was a rapporteur on behalf of the European Parliament on a regular annual report on Serbia in the European Union's Parliament, nothing more and nothing less. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11682	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11683	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't know what you're clapping about. I sincerely wanted the answer to my question to be the only one that deserves the state of Serbia and that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia tells me that it is not true and that such an agreement has not been initialled. What we unfortunately had was repeated several months ago to hear from a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, when representatives of the Democratic Party, past the government, also spoke to someone from abroad, specifically Austrian Chancellor Mr Guzenbauer, where this reality was accepted, which Bozidar Djelic claims is the responsibility of UNMIK for Kosovo and Metohija. That is the problem Serbia is facing seriously. I warn you that you had absolutely no right, not only to paralyze but to even discuss any agreement, any act that implies that Serbia is divided, or that Serbia is without Kosovo and Metohija. This gave you no single resolution of the Serbian Parliament. That's the problem we're facing right now, that we haven't been able to get a report on the results of the negotiating team for a long time, what they're talking about, what they're negotiating and what we've come up with. But like this, we have to collect all kinds of information that is largely hidden or false, not about the essence, but about something that should fool the public of Serbia. That is why the Assembly should urgently request a special session that the negotiating team would have to come and report to the Serbian Parliament as far as it comes and what it is. This agreement, which you are preparing, is not prepared to come within a month or two, but when conditions are obtained, and these conditions are likely to be obtained by you when Kosovo and Metohija are unilaterally declared independent. That's why you do it this way, and that's why America and the West are interested in each other and they're on their way to declare Kosovo's independence and Metohija's independence until the elections for Serbia's president are over. It seems that it would be a party to power in Serbia that would be acceptable to the US and the European Union, which means that party that has already announced in advance that it will not take any steps, no matter what happens, because we need to be aware of the reality. The reality, unfortunately, is tragic. Since 2000, you've worked so hard to destroy our army, which is now being brought in, so to speak, the end, and that we want to be hard to do, like any other normal state, to do what every country's goal is to protect our territory. But don't forget, you're making an account without the innkeepers. The state of Serbia and the people of Serbia did not allow you to earn what the citizens of Serbia have created for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11684	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and after that, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11685	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, government representatives, thank you for coming in this number. This is proof of how much you care about the attitudes and opinions of the MPs, the representatives of the people, and thus the people. I have a lot of questions, and given the short time, I'm going to try to ask them very quickly, and you, Mr. Djelic, set out who needs to answer the question. I hope you'll come out and answer me some questions to give me the right to those five minutes. First question: When and if you are allowed to audit the business of the Deposit Insurance and Recovery Agency and the bankruptcy of banks? That's where the money is, and that's where it's gonna be seen where that money went, that the banks are founded with these money, and that's how some of them, I don't have a proper expression, individuals, became successful businessmen. I have a few more questions for you. On October 20th 2006, he disappeared from the Agency for Privatisation of a laptop containing documents, i.e. data related to NIS, EPS and Bor. It's not about the value of the laptop, it's about what was on the hard drive. A month later, on 24.11.2006, the second laptop from office 712 (it was from office 708) disappeared, and was in charge of a certain Liljana Mladjan, director of legal services. It contained information about NIS and Bor. Is that why after that from the Privatisation Agency in NIS, a certain Vuchur passes for one of the directors, and does that mean that you are slowly bringing the end of NIS privatisation, in your arches, and then someone who remains last to turn off the light? Next, do you know that the company is PAN d.o.o. or PUN d.o.o., Belgrade, Uskočka 4, whose founders, members of G17 Plus, and Director Bojan Kristo, with the help of the Serbian government, took the lottery of Serbia, shut down and then falsely, by private means, formed Lutria Serbia d.o.o.? The director becomes Bojan Kristo, and that's the one... I've been using the other five minutes. Come out, Vice President, and give me a chance for those five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11686	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11687	I'd be happy to meet you. As far as the Deposit Insurance Agency is concerned, it is the legal successor of what was previously called, if I am not mistaken, the Agency for the restructuring and privatisation of banks. This morning, Mrs. Borka Vukic asked and I have already engaged on behalf of the government, so within a week, it will be in accordance with Article 200. Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the necessary information to be delivered. It is true that it is a massive bankruptcy procedure and a very valuable asset. The National Assembly absolutely has the right to have insight into how this property was available. So we're going to go out, of course according to our obligations, to meet you, because it's been going on for six years and I think it's good that the facts available are given if you don't think there's enough. I'm worried that laptops disappear from the Privatisation Agency like that, I didn't know that. But what I can say is that it obviously didn't hurt Bora. As we can see, financial offers are open today at noon. I know you didn't have the number of people from Borski County watching us. Today, two extremely serious bidders have fully presented their offer. They were qualified both, and here we see the government's decision, which was to fully justify this tender legally, because the question was, were two contradictory legal interpretations, whether or not a tender should be repeated, and under these circumstances the government renewed the tender. We see that the Austrian consortium Ailek-Bricksleg offered 466,000,000 dollars. That's the price for the property that's proposed. I would like to remind you that it is 96,000,000 more than the second-ranked offer, in financial terms, of the Russian SMR, which represents $160,000,000 more than the second-ranking bid from the previous tender. Those who were first-ranked, with $400,000, were also offering less, so, apparently, both the citizens of the Borski District and our country are here to win. We've received two extremely serious offers. Now the Agency has a month to consider these offers and end this very important job. I would like to say to the citizens of Bor that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making great efforts at the same time, which from its own resources, which is, from a specific programme that we are building with the World Bank, it is $50,000 and one multi-sectoral approach that needs to be provided, based on this successful privatisation, to move towards diversification of the base of business. I visited Bor two weeks ago. I must say, I was encouraged, or a few facts encouraged me. First, that those real estate sales were stopped, that the price of real estate is even starting to rise. We have a number of new companies that show up, not enough, but that's a start. When we talk about the potentials and investments that are mandatory here, I remind the honourable MPs that one of the conditions set for participation in this tender was to invest a lot, on the part of the strategic partner, in the ecology. A new furnace, a new melting room, must be built completely, which will be much more modern and will not pollute. On that basis, then we have a good chance of developing many other brands. Examples work, tourism. The Black Summit is not the only potential. Our police have even two facilities, hunting sites, which are very good and probably should be visited by tourists and thus further develop what can become a good place to live. In one country, which unfortunately loses 35,000 people each year, we talked a lot about it today, eastern Serbia is even more affected. We expect this exodus to be stopped in this way, in terms of even development. Here's one good news for the citizens of the eastern part of our country, and most of all the Borski County. That's what you asked as a question. I'm sure after your next five minutes, I may have additional objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11688	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11689	As we can see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Bor ended up just as well as Sartide, just as well as Popovac's cementist and everything else worth it in Serbia. I'm worried about what's going to happen to NIS, since this Vuchur from the Privatisation Agency, I assume, went from both laptops to the director of NIS. Speaking of NIS, let me remind you, Mr. Vice President, I have information that the Trizon - you remember the Trizon, that's the one you arrested, so he escaped from the court and you never found him again - owes 63,148,000 for the service processing of oil to NIS and owes 2.990.000 dinars of interest. Let's move on, while we're at NIS, and then you guys grab a stenogram and set up questions there in the government. At what cost does NIS import a mule? At what cost does NIS export a mule? At what price does NIS sell the lube MK Komerci, or his company Sunoko? What is the quality of imported raw oil, given the fact that JANAF is our former Yugoslav oil pipeline from Omis on Krka to here, threatened to suffer the consequences of oil imported from Syria, the Syrian blonde oil, with a lot of sulfur, so we polluted part of the pipeline? (Please listen to me, Mr. Vice President, then talk to him. ) How many directors in NIS have a manager’s contract and why? Did the police find out who stole 200,000 liters of gasoline from the refinery for New Year's holidays? Here, now New Year's Eve will again, they'll steal at least another 200,000, and you haven't caught those first thieves either. Just one more question, and I think I'll be able to expect you to answer it. Did the Privatisation Agency move into the former post office building? Do you know, Mr. Djelic, that for adaptation, it's for painting, painting carpentry, possibly more changes in some plugs, switches, etc. spent 160,000 dinars? I said, "Who approved it, how was it spent, who took the commission, and how much is this commission?" Go back to the Serbia d.o.o. It was founded by G17 plus. However, in this G17 plus interest group, there is now a heated debate. Looks like no one's getting along with anyone else. I could have figured that out from this bill where they'd ruin their president. Namely, they proposed to the Assembly, it is in a public debate, a law on confiscation of property acquired in a criminal manner. This means that Mladjan Dinkic will be left with nothing. I ask: Is it since the formation of the lottery of Serbia d.o.o. To this day and one dollar paid? You know that Serbia's lottery had an obligation to pay a part out of profit for humanitarian purposes and that was quite a figure. Has one single dinar been paid since then and how many of those who have won these famous weeks been paid? None of them showed up and said -- here, guys, I'm a lucky man, got a week at the lottery. There are huge frauds in the Serbia d.o.o. And now you've set him up as director of Belgrade Airport or JAT, and so will Belgrade d.o.o., as it begins. Mr. Djelic, I expect you to schedule these questions, whether they will answer finance, economics, police, the judiciary and expect written answers to all these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11690	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Let me read up on the speakers so far. After Mr Vasiljevic, MPs Petar Jojic, Jadranko Vukovic, Tomislav Ljubenovic, and after him, MP Bozidar Koprivica. These are so far-reported Members of the People's Parliament. Mr Vasilevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11691	Before I begin, I wish, Mr. Obradovic, to thank you for one very correct gesture that you have done to me personally and to the SPS MPs, and at the same time I want to say that what Mr. Dulic has done here, above all to me and the SPS MPs, does not serve him the honor. In the course of the day, at least a few MPs came forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and received their word. When we asked for it, he wouldn't let us. I also want to say that the agreements that are being made between Mr Dulic and some parliamentary groups do not oblige us at all if we did not participate in those agreements and we did not give the word that we would agree to such an agreement. However, let me move on to parliamentary issues. Mr. Djelic, you know the power of these MPs' questions and the attention of the viewers to what we're saying. Shortly after our discussion on apartments for the military, I received information from the defence ministry that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to buy 95 official apartments for the military, of which four four-bedroom apartments in Belgrade. I have to say that these four-bedroom apartments, which will be official apartments in Belgrade, are worth what it would be worth to ten or maybe 15 apartments that could settle the needs of those homeless people who have been living in sheds for 15 years or in the common rooms of some hotels. However, the point is not only that the funds are being spent irrationally, but that the law allows the official dwellings to be only three-way. So they can't be bigger than a three-bedroom apartment. I ask you to keep an eye on this, and I promise that, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and on your own personal behalf, I will make sure that these huge beasts are in the Ministry of Defense that these four apartments will receive and make sure that I inform the general public of this abuse, and they will not enjoy these apartments very much. I would like to ask the MUP and the BIA to provide me with information on whether they have information: how many couples of Albanians with permanent residence in Kosovo and Metohija have married, or married in the cities of Serbia and in the cities south of Nis? I know that in just one day, on one bus, 11 married couples from Pristina arrived and had a wedding in Nis. Be assured they could have done this in Pristina too, at much less cost and much more solemnly. I also want them to tell me: how many children are born in southern Serbia's foster homes whose parents are Albanians with permanent residence in Kosovo and Metohija? I'm asking you this not to endanger anyone's human rights or to be against it, but I just want to point out this as a single phenomenon that clearly says that with an independent Kosovo, the process of breaking up Serbia is not over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11692	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Vice-President of the Republic of Serbia to tell me: when will he raise the salaries to the educators? There's a large number of schools that aren't working right now, they're on strike. The salaries of educators are extremely low. We of the SRS feel that there is a need to raise salaries to educational workers because they deserve it. They are raising our young generations and therefore they need to be provided with a proper existence. So I ask the question: Will you raise their wages? To end the strike, to get the children to go to school, and the workers in the education earned a higher salary. Mr. Vice-President, several times the SRS parliamentary group in Pančevo addressed the president of the municipality, Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, to provide us with information on whether the budgetary inspection of the budget of the Pančevo municipality was carried out for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. Since it is about ten billion dinars, we have asked for a report on whether the budgetary inspection of the Republic's Ministry of Finance has carried out budgetary control - to file a report and to give it to the committees. We have repeatedly addressed the Assembly and President SO Srdjan Mikovic, but we have not received an answer. That is why I am forced to, as a national MP, because citizens often ask me what happened to the use of budget funds, about their dedicated use and, on the other hand, using reserves from the budget, ask me the question: Who is the beneficiary of the reserve from the budget and have they filed a report on the dedicated spending of these specific funds? Mr. Vice-President Djelic, 320,176,000 dinars were charged for 2006 and 410,648,000 dinars for 2007. I ask the question and, please, ask the Government to answer me, since the municipality is not responding, the local government won't answer: Did the Panchevo municipality of the budget give me funds for savings, under what conditions and what banks? On the other hand, it also gives a report to which banks are in charge and under what conditions. The interest that has been charged and agreed on the funds that have been allocated to the savings, according to some of our findings, is far less than the funds for the loan. Therefore, we do not see why it was necessary to deposit funds with banks as savings, while at the same time asking banks for credit. That is not clear to us, so we are asking that the Government, within the framework of its powers, clarify this issue. I ask the question: How much of the government's budget has been paid in the light of compensation for citizens who have been paid for illegal and unfair decisions by courts and judges for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, at the conclusion of 1.11.2007? Mr. Vice President, there is no Mr. Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture, currently Serbia's biggest robbery is to rent agricultural land. Maybe you in the government, and you as vice president don't know, but in the field, you know, I can tell you that there's a lot of malfeasance. As tenders go, as competitions for renting agricultural land go, I'll show you on the case, and check with the Ministry of Agriculture how easily it gives consent. Old Tamish, agricultural well-being in Panchev, has about 3,000 acres. The price is 110,000 per hectare per year. But the other one's in line. Now word is, it's unchecked, that this first drop, and this second one, whose price is about 10,000 dinars, comes to its place. What about the difference? There's a lot of malfeasance. The biggest robbery is currently in the lease of agricultural land. It was not possible for these parcels of agricultural land to evaporate to three, four, five, ten or twenty hectares, and in that case, peasants might also report. I can tell you, there's a lot of dissatisfaction with citizens because that country that's given to tycoons, thousands of acres, is just a big part of the taken country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11694	Mr. Jojic, please finish after the minister answers, and then you have the right to another five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11695	I'll finish. I'm asking another question so I don't want to ask another time. Or am I gonna have to do it another time?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11696	No, you're right after the minister's reply for another five minutes. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11697	Mr. Jojic, you've asked a few questions from various domains. As for the damages paid to our citizens, I don't have those numbers. Of course, we will ask the Ministry of Finance to deliver them within eight days, in accordance with Article 200. Rules of Procedure. As far as education is concerned, the founding state was such that our educator was, I'll use one word, the lumpen-proleter. They were so miserable in 2001 and 2002 -- their salaries were 60% already a very low republican average. I'm proud of the government, and not just the government where I was a member, and now this government whose member I am, but in continuity, in the last seven years, not enough, has yet to be done, but with the means available, I really gave priority to the educators. Those who prepare our future generations must have priority. This morning, Mr. Albianic spoke of it. To become competitive, to make our country rich, we don't have great natural resources, we have our geographical position, but our only real capital is people. Our country has only 7.7% of university-educated citizens, which is the lowest rate in Europe, with BiH. 25 years ago, we had more college-educated people than Portugal. We're the only country in the last 15 years that hasn't made any progress in that domain, while, for example, in that above mentioned Portugal, the percentage of people with college education with 6% switched to 28%. So, education is important, current separations are significantly higher, educational workers, those who work and teach to our children at primary school, earn this time above the republican average and, of course, more those who teach in high schools and universities. Is that enough? It's not. Has the average education salary increased by 33% in the last 12 months? Yes, it is. Is it possible to repeat that next year? Not to that extent. What is proposed to the educators is that the salary fund is increased by 22.6%, which will allow the salary to increase on two occasions, in April and September of the following year - to some extent, because I do not want to show things in a more positive light than they really are. Raising the pay fund by 22% is the same part of the transfer this year. As the salary increased this year on several occasions, the average salary in 2008 will be higher than the average salary in 2007 for the amount I mentioned. Progress will be felt and I guarantee all educators that their purchasing power will not fall, but, at the same time, it is our responsibility. I can tell you that we've reached a total salary fund for government officials, which is 10.3% of our gross domestic product. The problem is not that the salaries are high, away from that, but the problem is that the cake is still too small. In that cake 10.3% for government officials' salaries - it's a European record. The neighbouring Bulgaria, which is already in the EU, separates 3.6%, nearly three times less than we do. I'm not saying it's a model, but I guarantee that in the years to come, after the consolidation of real wages next year, educational workers will continue to have a priority in the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's the real deal with the justice unions, you saw that the unions, too, I'm grateful to them for that, took over part of the responsibility. We have confessed in the judiciary, which is also true in education, that the network of institutions is not adequately set up. We have too much capacity in one place and not enough on the other. In the judiciary, it's been said that one-third of the employees are working two-thirds of the cases. We must, as responsible people, gradually, without fractures, with appropriate social programs where it is directed and acceptable to change our structure. Unfortunately, what we talked about on several occasions this morning, our negative demographic situation has led to very unfortunate figures. For example, today, the number of Belgrade champions has dropped, if memory serves me well, by 35%, while the number of education workers in Belgrade has increased by 10%. So, on average, the number of students per educational worker in our country, believe it or not, is much smaller than in much more developed, richer societies and we have to face these facts... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Djelic. )......................................................................................................... As with the fact that international criteria have shown, OECD reports, that our performance in primary school could be better. Our children learn a lot... (Chairman: Please finish.) )......................................................................................................... but unfortunately, due to the outdated programmes, they are slightly equipped for the challenges of the 21st century, where there is not enough drumming, but rather learning methodology and solving problems. It's a big theme for years to come. Quality education is our future. As for Panchev, Mr. Jojic, you had a series of questions... (President: Thank you, Mr. Djelic.) )......................................................................................................... But I won't be able to answer. Just one more minute, if you'll excuse me. On precise matters, I can tell you that the budgetary inspection of the Republic of Serbia has jurisdiction towards local self-government and we will also ask the Ministry of Finance and the Budgetary Inspectorate to provide you with information about what you said. As far as money management is concerned... (President: Please finish after the seventh minute begins.) )......................................................................................................... Under the law adopted by local self-government, they have autonomy in managing that money and when they have deposits that are short-term. It's not by automatism contradictory with some longer-term responsibilities. They may have some money, but they'll need it for a month or two, and what they're in charge of, it's in a few years, and for infrastructure. It doesn't necessarily mean it's a bad thing. I conclude with one very important topic that you have launched, Mr. Jojic, which is the way the country is leased. That question isn't properly regulated enough, I agree with you. We need to balance it out. On the one hand, the twirling of the property is not an instructional property, our property of 3.7 hectares on average is one of the smallest in Europe, we must have the opportunity to increase productivity. But, at the same time, local self-government, in whose jurisdiction it is, they're very quick to lend the land to some people, and we're now realizing that some of them aren't able to pay that lease. You're right, we'll have to do a lot more at the legal level to deal with it. Surveillance is necessary and there is a good chance that young farmers have more countries to process. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11698	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11699	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President Djelic, I am speaking to you, Mr. Djelic, this morning I received an official report from the Secretary of Finance of the Pancheva Municipality saying that the total revenue of the 2006 budget was 2,780,250,000 in which the credit line is 320,176,000, and for 2007, the budget is 3.341,162,000, in which the credit line is 410.486,000. I don't want to accuse anyone now, but I want to get a report because voters are looking, citizens are asking to check whether it was used on purpose or not. Secondly, you could see that I took it out, why the municipality is in debt and giving funds to save. Let's see, what interest was on the savings, on the one hand, and what interest was agreed on for the loan. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, a month ago I asked a question, but I didn't get an answer. I'm asking the government questions. It's a good thing you're here. I asked the question: What was the salary of the last two years of being the director of JAT and the director of the airport? According to us, JAT's director had 16,000 euros a month's salary, and the director of the airport was 12,000 euros, according to some statements. When you add up, Mr. Vice President, these two salaries and compare, these two salaries are so much a month if there were ten thousand salaries to cleaning women or ten or fifteen thousand dinars to that poor paradise that works in various institutions, in administration or social enterprises, that 150-200 workers would be paid. I asked a question and I'm looking for an answer because I insist on it. On the other hand, I doubt it's covered up, and the papers have already written. As for the salary of the educators, I would disagree with you, Mr. Vice President. The salaries of educators are really low. The jobs they perform are vital to our generations, i.e. for children who come. Therefore, wages are low. Ask the faculty professors, ask the teachers in high schools, they've got small salaries, they've earned it, and we're asking them to be bigger. On the other hand, I don't know how you made a deal with the union of legal workers. I can tell you that the cleaning lady in the judiciary has nine and a half thousand salaries. The salaries of administrative workers range from 9,000 to 15,000 dinars. We agreed, Mr. Vice President, to establish a judicial trust, a judiciary fund. Don't let the minister of justice beg the finance minister because the finance minister thinks the minister of justice is a pickpocket and now he wants to take his money to use it for other purposes. No, that's not true. The minister of justice wants him to improve the position of judicial employees. We in the judiciary have most honest and honest people who work. There, individuals deal with certain affairs that are incompatible with the law. Individuals like that can't stay in the judiciary anymore. One very important question. You can help yourself here. The law on court fees should also change court fees 100% to justice. Then you'd have a real improvement in the material position of judicial employees. When it comes to the judiciary, I think this would be very important. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking the government: How many pending and pending cases in a litigation procedure older than three years? There's been a lawsuit in Germany for six months. I studied that in parallel law. On the other hand,... (President: Minister asked for a word, and then you have the right to another five minutes. ) I ask the following questions: How many pending cases in the executive procedure over a year? In how many cases did Serbian citizens complain about the court and judges' proceedings? How many presentations and proposals were received by the Committee, and what were citizens most often complaining about? When will the Committee on Presentations and Proposals of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the number of plays and the proposal to the Committee have arrived? And the committee is obliged to report to the National Assembly once during the regular session. When will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia pass a law on foreign NGOs? What's the status of Parkett's company in Fatty, where the workers have run out of funds? What is the status of the aircraft factory, the only one in Serbia, which was destroyed by the enemy on 24 April 1990? What is the status of the Lola Utva factory, which is worth 250,000 euros today, and the starting price is now, according to my knowledge, and the newspaper writes, only two and a half million euros, and the workers are on the street? I'm just asking one more sentence. This important factory is planned to go bankrupt. It is easy then, if this factory goes bankrupt, that the tycoons come to a factory worth 200,000 euros for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11700	Thank you. The word is Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11701	In short, if you look at that annual regular report by the European Commission, including all the issues that exist in all the countries in our environment, the judiciary is certainly the most important institution and also very difficult in terms of reform. Because it should be guessed, on the one hand, a full degree of independence in order to respect the principle of sharing power between the three branches of government, and on the other hand, it should be ensured that this system itself is transformed. You saw for yourself, in the case of Pahomia, that the Supreme Court judges only warned a judge who retired immediately. We've had situations, a number of cases in trade courts, where, unfortunately, our system has shown that it cannot be reformed alone. About the money, Mr. Jojic. The law on court fees applies. I can tell you that this year, these are 7.2 billion dinar figures, which were directed towards, on the one hand, improving the material position of the legal holders and, on the other hand, covering the material costs. Our talks with the union have contributed in two other directions. I don't want to talk about everything. The first direction is that we're going to be going to change this Law on Court Taxes because we've seen one interesting thing, which is that for some very important contracts, disputes, we essentially have the maximum amount, so for one contract of seven million dinars, the same court fee is paid for a contract worth hundreds or billions of dinars. Of course, there must be one scale, but it's obvious that for large economic transactions, justice is extremely cheap and that, of course, along with the judicial unions, we're going to change that. The second thing, union workers have agreed to one important principle, which is that at the time of the release of additional funds after the social programme that will be implemented by the end of the year, we will have the possibility that those who work next year will get not necessarily a linear salary increase, but a addition from the court fees that will be focused on recognising more work. In other words, at this point, through dialogue, Justice Ministers and trade unions are developing a system that will recognize that there are many more cases in some courts, much more pressure and that these people are able to earn more because of greater productivity. Finally, on these individual issues and businesses, we will ask the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. As for Utva, on the one hand, we see a sad story of a potential giant who used to work parts for internationally recognised airlines, and also the possibility of having a remont. Is it still time to work on that famous plane that's going to be for our army, that's a big question, but it's certain that this factory has a future too. As far as land is concerned, I repeat, there's intelligence entirely in the hands of local self-government, and the Ministry of Agriculture is just checking, in a formal sense, whether everything is done. But I agree with you that we need to improve this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11702	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, as a final comment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11703	Ladies and gentlemen, not only is it the aircraft factory Lola Utva, but unfortunately seven thousand workers of the old Utva are out of work. What happened? They went to a particular company and plants to go bankrupt and, in the course of bankruptcy and afterwards, tycoons came, grabbed and robbed an old Utva plane factory, which had 7,000 employees. As far as this new factory is concerned, Lola Utva, it's the only aircraft factory in Serbia, and it's a giant that can produce Boing planes, not just spare parts. We have great experts in Panchev because it's one of the oldest factories, during the old Yugoslavia it was founded, worked during the former SFRY and SRJ, but our enemies destroyed that factory because they bombed it with missiles from Avian on 24 March 1999 at 8:15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should not allow this factory to go bankrupt. Because if Lola Utva's factory goes bankrupt, then the tycoons will get it at a cheap price and you'll get into a situation where employees who are employed, pensioners won't exercise their property rights, i.e. He won't have the right to action, nor will he have other social rights because some tycoon and mobster will come and buy that factory for free. And I'm telling you, this factory is worth 250,000 euros today. Because, Mr. Vice President, this country needs planes, this country needs an army, and an army without planes and aviation can no longer beat its enemies. And we'll deal with the enemy. And make airplanes in Lola Utva in Pancheva and shoot ourselves in the air at any point in the globe, not just on this territory, as our enemies are... Yes, we were, in the air, defeated by the enemies because thousands of planes and flights a day were directed to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or SRJ. That's why we have to be prepared to have an air force, to have an army ready and to be able to defend ourselves one day against the enemy, as Serbia has done through history mostly. I repeat, she threw three kingdoms at her feet: Hamburg, Austria and Turkey. For this reason, Serbia must have an aircraft factory and must have a capable army. We need to recover the army, we need to strengthen and we need to have security in this country, and we can only do that if we have a good and strong army. Cheers and thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11704	Thank you. The parliamentary question is asked by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's take advantage of the foreign minister's presence and ask him an interesting question as well. We're hoping to get an answer. I ask the foreign minister the question: Did Boris Tadic sign an agreement with Condoleezza Rice in Washington on 27 September 2006? Is this agreement a state secret? If it isn't a state secret, when will it come to the Serbian Parliament for ratification? Just for your information, under that agreement, American soldiers get full immunity. So, they're not responsible for any of the only misdemeanors in Serbia's territory. And, with this agreement, practically, the state of Serbia is completely under occupation, and that the citizens of Serbia do not have any information to date. In order not to spread the story, I would ask the minister to answer this question, so we will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11706	Thank you. The word has a foreign minister. You have to answer in writing? No problem. Here you go. The next question is asked by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I'm going to ask a few questions. This first question could go to the address of Mr. Jeremic's foreign minister: Mr. Minister, where are the human rights guards now to raise their voice against the obvious violation of the same, when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our citizens who, as shooting beasts, are being persecuted by Hague investigators headed by Christine Dahl? We were in this house yesterday talking about it. I don't know if you're familiar. The lady has been in Belgrade for ten days and invites citizens of Serbia, schedules meetings at different cafes, even in Mali Zvornik. We spoke to Minister Jocic. It's very important that you know, as foreign minister, that this lady in our country... I know, but you run the outside business. The next question, are you gentlemen ministers going to answer this or someone from the government, I asked a few weeks ago to submit a report on the listed state of property, immovable and mobile things, which was at the use of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro on the day of the end of the community. Is that what the experts were doing? I'm looking for all sales contracts -- immovableities, ships, planes and other weapons, military equipment -- over a period of time of the state community. Next question, we will quickly: What concrete measures have Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac taken in relation to military reserve demands? Did they find out who was guilty in the judiciary or the Ministry of Defence because some reservers received a higher amount of money compared to other reserves, as Sutanovac claims, against the law? If what Sutanovac claims is true, that some reservers have received an illegally higher amount of money, they would have to return those funds to the state and those who are guilty of being held accountable. And if these reserves received funds under the law, due to the equality of the citizens before the law, the same way should be paid to other reserves. One more question. I ask that my question be answered about the known affair produced by the then defence minister, Mr Tadic -- general dwellings on Raška Street, where the generals and other officers who, at the time of Tadic's ministry, were rewarded by these apartments only because they were co-operative in breaking up the military. Ministers, I have an expert analysis from an army expert, and you check it out. So, in Raška and Kumanovska Street, about 100 and 200 apartments were divided. If these apartments were sold at market value, three to four thousand modest apartments would be provided, in humble locations, for members of the Serbian Army. There are 15,000 unsettled apartments in the military. I'm looking for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11708	Thank you. The parliamentary question is asked by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a parliamentary question for the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government: When will it call the local elections in Leskovac? All election deadlines are over. The decisions taken by the provisional authority are questionable, and their legitimacy, as it has expired six months since the establishment of the provisional organ. Instead of calling for elections and solving citizens' problems, the political elite deals with peripheral matters, forming new former municipalities, the status of the city, not taking care of citizens' interests and promises made in the election campaign, based on which citizens cast their voice and show them confidence. The previous explanation, given to Dr Goran Cvetanovic, is not adequate. Just to give an explanation, in the sense that the local parliament there has not been established at all, and that the conditions for the introduction of provisional measures have not been met, but, by automatedism, simply by informalising the local parliament, by not establishing the local parliament, new elections are immediately being discussed. I would like to ask another parliamentary question, Minister of Investments: By building Corridor 10, is the loop and exit of Predejan, which has exceptional importance and strategic importance for Leskovac and the region, because this is the shortest way to the Strazimirovci and Vlassin Lake border crossing, the most attractive work and the tourist potential of Serbia? The exit to this part of the highway also has great importance for the tourist facility of the Predejana Motel, which is very important for the residents of this town, in which 200 families exist. This is very important for this small environment because there are no other economic operators in the town. I would like to ask another question, Minister of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior: Is the ministry's portfolio planning to improve living conditions for members of the militia in the Upper Oruglica border area with Kosovo? The existing assembly facilities are not adequate and are of temporary character. In 2005, local self-government in Leskovic, while Parliament Speaker Goran Cvetanovic, decided to help build a building of solid material and repairs of a road that is in a catastrophic state, at the time of Gornja Oruglica, 25km in length. The government's promise to help realize this project to this day remains only on promise. The temporary body, which consists of DS, DSS, NS and G17 plus, certainly did not see the existing problem and its resolution, and the possibilities of the woodworking community itself to realise this project are not feasible, are not feasible without the help of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11710	Thank you. Answer the question, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11711	Of course, the long workblocks of the institutions have made progress completely impossible. The situation is still not ideal, but it's still moving forward. I'd just like to mention a few things that are being prepared at this point and some that are already reality. Under one, as I said today, the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated funds to end the highway to the Macedonian border, with the help of Greece, announced. It's very important and we'll do it. Two, we have significant opportunities to export electricity. Macedonia, including Greece, are our markets. The Dalekovod, which will end within two and a half years, first assumes that the trafo stations, where the funds are provided, are partly from one donation from the Swedish government, and in part from our own funds, plus the work that the EPS has done, I checked it on the recent visit of Leskovac with the EPS itself, it is projected and the works will begin. It's a great opportunity for the Leskovci. The third thing, in infrastructure -- it's the pipeline we talked about, the end of the pipe from Sofia to Nis, and then the construction of the pipeline will allow the Leskovec industry to have a much bigger future. So much for infrastructure. Three words only about the economy. We find that Health Leskovac is progressing. Management has informed me that they are planning to reach 120,000,000 euros from the current level of, if I am not mistaken, exports within five years. So, stable jobs and, you're right, less workers, and that's why it's important that these next two things that I'm going to talk about are realized. One, we talk to Actavis, who owns Health Leskovac, to locate because Leskovci, I congratulate them on that, showed exceptional quality in working in the production of pharmaceutical products to the extent that there is interest, and not only from this group but also others, to see if they can expand the capacities. On the one hand, Health Leskovac for the production of a packaging factory for his medicines, and I also want to say that he finally solved the problem with one Leskovčina, Professor Stojkovic, who received adequate funds from the Development Fund to locate in Leskovac. I must say, all parties participated in opening an institute to deal with an important issue of artificial insemination. There's a lot of couples waiting for that. Further than that, we'd hope he goes into that domain of genetics that he knows so well. The last thing, an agreement was reached with a Cypriot company where exactly 2,000 workers are now being sought. Of course, some will say it's just a lon-work, but let's get out of it, and I'm sure that, gradually, after many years of difficulty, it will once again have not only a traditional power in the area of textiles, but, with this infrastructure, working in the domain of the pharmaceutical industry, health and genetic industry, will have a very good future. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11712	Thank you. The last question is asked by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11713	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the MPs of the SRS will honor the agreement reached today that this session will last until 21:00 hours. This was a trial session for both of you who are taking over the ministerial chairs and us who are taking over the MPs. Let it be that you are satisfied today, we are not, until the Prime Minister and all the ministers are here, we will never be satisfied with this session, and you know it very well. I tell Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic that he has less sense than the courage to answer all these questions today, because, Mr. Djelic, I have many questions for you that the authorities will one day answer. You said today that you stopped the sale of the insurance company DDOR because the price was extremely low. We're supposed to build a monument for you right now, but he's gonna be standing next to the prison where you're gonna be because all the other factories are free of charge. The factory Health Leskovac, which you are now talking about, had 2,200 workers, now has 700-800. It was sold for three and a half million euros, Mr Djelic, and was immediately sold for 12m euros. Its value is 45,000 thousand euros. Mr. Djelic, are you Mr. Djelic? Why didn't you buy it? That's how you sold it at a time when you weren't worried about it being sold. Now you've come to your senses. We'll see if it was just a mind or if you worked for money. And just one last question: Where did you get the providence, Mr. Djelic, from where did it occur to you that Serbia needed nukes? Whose lobby did it work in your nerves and in your veins, Mr. Djelic? Who influenced you to go public with the pilot project, with the story, with the idea that Serbia would build nukes? Is there an energy mafia behind you next to Tadic or the one next to Kostunica, or is it the French energy mafia or maybe Russian? You have to answer, because when you do something, I don't believe in any of the moves that you take that money doesn't stand behind it. I asked you, you should have told me openly, you know better about finance than I do, and I was just asking you, how much did you pay the state to transfer the ownership of your actions? How many states did she take taxes from? A simple matter, therefore, conflict of interest. You had the actions of the Meridian Bank, the one through which you were getting married with the Queen of Mark, so I even called you out for it. Then you said they weren't your property anymore. Once again, I ask you: How was the change of ownership done, and how many countries did it make? It's impossible it's not, and it's impossible for all of this to happen without someone staying free. Mr. Djelic, I don't know if you know that people go to jail when they steal an egg at the market. And it's a prison for a basic food item that carries a child. Mr. Djelic, you have gained tens of millions of euros thanks to the position you have taken in the government of Zoran Djindjic, thanks to the position you are taking today. You say those tens of millions of euros are no longer your property. You have the right to do whatever you want with them, but only in the right way. Did that property get into someone else's hands? Whose, when wasn't the legal transaction? If it's done, how many states have been taxed; if it isn't, how many tax evasions have you had?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11714	Thank you. Reply - Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. I ask you then to give an opportunity to the People's MP that he, after the Minister, give his comment on the answer because it is such a custom when asking parliamentary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11715	Mr. Nikolic, you are the only serious opponent, Boris Tadic. I'm sorry that an important political figure like you is using such arguments. If anyone, members of your party, anyone who thinks I broke the law, can file a criminal report, let me answer. I just want to say that I work the way I was raised, the way I think it's right for our country and I'm responsible for all my actions. Of course I paid all my taxes and I did everything legally. I have this chance that I'm partly lucky, but believe me, because no one here has helped me very much, in the West I've completed five colleges, two diplomas, three master's degrees, I've worked at a leading consulting house in the world and I've been one of the 50 top directors of the third largest financial institution in the world. Nobody gave it to me. I know I can, I don't want to compare myself with someone in sports right now, but as maybe one of our most talented players and tennis players, I'd like to find a chance to work and get caught, so for that kind of argument, I think, if there's any doubt, he can get rid of where he belongs. But you have asked, Mr. Nikolic, one very important question, and that is the question of nuclear energy, and that is the question of our future in that domain. I object to the construction of nukes and to make that clear. What's being transferred is during a public debate on the sustainable development strategy, where I'm asking reporters of the Evening News 'What's with the nuclear industry', said that, in the circumstances when the barrel of oil went from $25 to $95, some countries that have no alternative, such as Great Britain, few of us know that their oil supplies are pretty fast, I don't say gone, but they're less and less, they don't have new sites, they're forced to look for new options. Serbia has other options. I'll mention three. One: we have lignite for at least 30 additional years. Second: we have the hydro potential among the five best in Europe, and for construction, according to experts, some 1000-1500 mini power plants. To point out, there are interstate possibilities on Drina. We have a capital remont, the first since 1973, on Gerdap II with Russian partners, which should go, which will increase, as well as Bajina Basta where we work with colleagues from Austria and Germany, not only to be extended and that it can work another 20-30 years, but also a significant additional force will be provided that way. Third, last and foremost: our country acts as though it is an extremely rich country. We spend 3.9 times more energy on the same production unit when compared to the rich European Union countries. That's not allowed. I'll just give you a few ideas: one light bulb, two-machines that are about a thousand in our plants. Only these changes would allow us to either avoid the construction of additional thermal power plants currently planned by the EPS, or to build them without completely exporting that electricity. In the end, but certainly no less important, our country has just begun with this great opportunity called renewable energy sources. Of course there's a lot of talk about bioethanol, of course there's a lot of possibilities. On the world market, the price of corn has increased greatly because large producers such as Brazil or the United States, this last country already has 40% of total production directed into energy rather than food. By the way, our country, when we combine all of this, all of our options, will never build nukes. But we need to get out of our senses, out of the energy debate, get all of us involved, and with the Ministry of Energy, we're going to develop a strategy of energy efficiency and audit if it takes a strategy from 2015, that our country, because it has this potential, becomes a mini-power force of energy. Add to that pipeline, add to that the oil pipeline from Constanta to Trieste which we can build and you will see that the brighter pages of our energy sector are ahead of us. Our country at this point, it has climate change, it can not only get from energy what we need for life but make it a great economic opportunity. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11716	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11717	Not just bulbs, you should have mentioned cell phone chargers. And that should be recommended to the citizens to pull them out of the wall, and it spends electricity even when they don't charge the phone. So, as far as bioethanol is concerned, the debates are much higher than you and I can handle. There's a question of food in the world, and you know it very well. If everyone starts producing bioethanol, what will the people eat? So leave those stories to those who understand it better than you and me. You mentioned Boris Tadic and the presidential election. If you keep lying like you lied about the support Putin gives to Boris Tadic, maybe he'll be some opponent to me, but as much as you've raised his fame to his actions at Meridian Bank, I'm convinced he can't be an opponent of a serious SRS candidate. Absolutely convinced. And to Mr. Jeremic, who is here, I recommend that he read today a stenogram from your two exhibitions, one where you said Russia's undeniable support for Boris Tadic was in the elections and the other, where you said you didn't say that. Because whatever you are, and you are very inclined to cause incidents, you should not interfere with international relations, and especially not with Russia and Serbia. This is what I'm gonna keep going on. On Monday, I will talk to the Russian ambassador about it because it is unacceptable and impossible, Mr. Djelic, to seek support for Tadic by saying that Putin supports Tadic. The moment someone in Russia said Russia supports an SRS candidate, we wouldn't point out a candidate in the election. We care so much about honor, morals and cheeks. I repeat again to your assholes: whoever wants to join NATO, don't count on Russian support in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-23-0.u11718	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank all the MPs. I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and the ministers who attended the agenda: MPs' issues. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 24th of November 2007, tomorrow, at 11.00 p.m., as a voting day. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 175 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Rajko Baralic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the Constitutional Court, in principle. For 131 against one, the abstention of three, did not vote 8 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Dr Zarko Obradovic withdrew the amendment to Article 16, and MPs: Slobodan Maras, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Rangelović and Milena Stankovic, the amendments they submitted together. 45, 49 and 110. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that during the search of the Bills in particular, it has been found that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Dr Vladan Batic, named Chapter IV, Nemanje Sarovic, member 37, Elena Bozic-Talijan, member of 66th and Vido Jovanovic on Article 93. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill has also become amendments to the MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, member of 13th and Veljko Kovacevic, member of 14. The bill, because they were adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 127, it was not 13 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 7, against 127, there were three out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 127, seven out of 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 12 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 4th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 127, it was not 11 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 125, there were no 11 votes, of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 126, it was not 13 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 126, there was no 11 vote, out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 124, there were 14 votes, out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. at the MP's unit. For 8, against 125, 10 out of 143 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 127, it was not 11 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Rajko Baralic in the same text. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 126, it was not 13 out of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 16th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 62 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 5, against 124, 67 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 126, it was not 13 out of 197 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 126, 19 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 127, there were 14 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, v. 125, there was no vote of 66, out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted this amendment in particular. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 187, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 198 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 126, 67 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 127, he did not vote 31, of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 126, there was no vote of 69, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 127, it did not vote 18 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 128, there was no vote of 66, out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, v. 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 128, it did not vote 14, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 125, it did not vote 18 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic, Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 128, a abstentioned one did not vote 64, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic, Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 127, it did not vote 67, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 126, there was no vote of 69, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milena Stankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 124, he did not vote 71, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 125, there was no vote of 70, of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 125, there was no vote of 20, of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 124, he did not vote 21 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 46th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 124, it did not vote 72, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zdravko Topalovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 124, 72 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 125, 70 of the 199 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 124, 19 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 51st amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 191, against one, it did not vote 11 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 125, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 54th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 126, there was no vote of 24 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 127, there was no vote of 24 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, v. 127, the vote was not 69, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 70 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 127, 22 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 125, it did not vote 72 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On item 3 above Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 127, 22 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 126, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On item 3, in front of Article 80, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 125, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 80th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 126, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the 82nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 123, there was no vote of 73, out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to article 82 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 125, the vote was not 69, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 127, there was no vote of 24 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 83rd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 123, 71 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 123, 19 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 121, 72 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 84th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 121, 72 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 84th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 85th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 124, 69 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a new member of 85 after article 85, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 125, it did not vote 28 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 67 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7 against 126, 68 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 124, he did not vote 71, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment, which adds the title of the new chapter 9 after article 90, was submitted by MP Amjad Migati. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 124, 25 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zoran Krasic submitted the 93th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 118, 32 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras submitted together. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 68 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 108 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 125, they did not vote 64 out of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 110th Amendment was submitted by Milena Stankovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 124, he did not vote 71, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vladan Batic submitted to the 110th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 125, it did not vote 69 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 125, it did not vote 68 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 111, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 120, they did not vote 74 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to article 114. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 123, 69 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. During the review of the draft law in particular, the Proposer's representative adopted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 188, two abstentions, it did not vote 13, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 117th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 125, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the Constitutional Court Bill, in general. I'm putting a vote on the Constitutional Court bill, in general. For 133, three abstentions, they did not vote 64 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly passed a draft law on the Constitutional Court. We're moving to agenda two. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
