ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 members of the Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Lazic, Ivan Andric, Radovan Radovanovic and the other MPs who attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE OBJECTIVE (principles) The word has a National MP Milena Stanković, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, President of Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 225. I'm responding to last night's scandalous edition of a very watched show at the Public Service, known as "48 Hours Wedding". Here's why. Because last night's show, in the most unscrupulous, most open way to promote violence against a woman. In fact, last night on that show, which I'm not going to give to a value court, a marriage was made by a bride and groom who have such a relationship that the groom, from time to time, slaps his bride, and her mother has to say that she earned it from time to time. I think it's really embarrassing, especially considering that this show entered the program without any conviction or any critical attitude that would in any way disqualify such behaviour and consider it socially undesirable. In fact, given the fact that this show has gone into the air, we can conclude that this kind of behavior in this country seems to be socially desirable, or at least desirable among those who run national television. These are, to remind you, the same ones who in our country promote the value of stealing, the permanent opening of national and other major topics, rather than dealing with the essence of life. 15 days ago, a colleague from the G17 Plus party reacted because a shameful picture of a woman who was forced by her husband to move naked along the streets of their city appeared on the front page of a newspaper. What tells us that this marriage will not end in the end? That's why I'm asking my colleagues to support me on this occasion and condemn this behavior. The most shocking thing is that this emissions and, in general, the service is financed by the money of the citizens of this country, and on that same television, such a terrible system of values is promoted from day to day, i.e. that concept. The quasi-domacian Serbia, in which violence against a woman is shown as the ultimate proof of love for a woman. On the other hand, at the same time as such shows are recorded and released into the program, you have some other shows, where you can see that a very active campaign is under way that, in fact, by ruling the establishment of this country is struggling to end TV transmissions of our sessions in Parliament. So what we're saying here, the problems that come up here are considered irrelevant, uninteresting, such citizens present themselves, and yet, on the other hand, shows like "48 Hours of Wedding" are very popular and watched. There is no day without some self-proclaimed, quasistructs talking about how transfers of Parliament's sessions are unnecessary. I'm telling you again, I see you've calmed down, this question I can't start anywhere else, but here. If I had called a press conference, there would have been five journalists, and three of them would have gotten out of context what I wanted to say. So please, first of all, fellow Members, although it wouldn't be a bad idea for your colleagues to get back together, to strongly condemn what happened last night and what was released into the program and to ask for an emergency shift from the national service's administration and office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7020	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already been puzzled by this controversy and the campaign that's being campaigned at the Public Service for the termination of TV transmissions. I'm confused because I started to wonder if your TV transmissions started now, two or three months ago, or if it took ten years? How come you suddenly remember that, like it's something new? That's not why I answered. There's one more important question than the RTS Public Service. I refer to members 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the National Assembly has the opportunity to actively engage in an event of extreme importance. From October 1st to October 7th, around the world, and even this country, children's Sundays are organized, a whole series of events are organized, children's rights are promoted, etc. This year is the motto of the event: "Let's change the world, we deal with children." Mr. President of the National Assembly, I think the Assembly should change a lot of things in this country and also deal with children. A frantic data was released at a press conference yesterday. I think it's a warning signal and the Assembly needs to react. In addition to a series of papers that exist when it comes to children's rights and not to list further, which is talked about and what is undeniable, 400,000 children are poor in Serbia. Frapantan data, published in the media, that half of that number, so 200,000 children, an entire town of small people, lives in extreme misery and doesn't eat a single slice of bread a day. This is a major problem, with the problem that SPS lawmakers warned about the other day, the difficult position of old and pensioners. That's a million people. Isn't a million people enough reason for the Assembly to say stop, we want to put it as a priority? Therefore, I am asking for an explanation, asking the Parliament to ask the Government for information on how it is implemented and whether a national action of young people, adopted in 2004, is being realised, because we have a lot of observations not to be realized. What measures will all be taken, not just to determine the everyday situation in Serbia, which has started even recently to escalate violence in primary schools? So we ask that the Government come out as soon as possible with measures before the National Assembly, so that the Assembly can take its stand. Here's a chance, finally, for the Serbian government to correct one of its mistakes. Namely, when the Socialist Party of Serbia asked to abolish the value added tax for baby equipment, the government rejected it. Patriarch asked, the government says she accepted. We don't care, just let them take it away. So let the congregation get involved in this action in its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7022	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7023	My fellow MPs, from this pay phone three months ago, I asked a question about the robbery in Subotica, and the good news is, something's happening, the police are reacting, the prosecution has responded. However, the state is not responding and the government is not responding. But it's no wonder, since there's the same man at the head of the government who was the technical prime minister when this space was alienated, so I guess no one's informed him yet. Here, from this pay phone, I ask Prime Minister Kostunica's question -- what's going on, why isn't the government reacting to the exchange of space between the "Minerve" and the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia? We've come to a lot of new knowledge of the irregularities that were going on there. Not to speak and not to repeat, this space that the state has given is worth 10 times more than the one that got in exchange. But when we look at the contract carefully, we see that it's listed, for the space that Minerva gives for the state property of the Directorate -- they found a conditional space. And look at the wonders, after the noise that happened in Subotica and the knowledge of what happened, at the same time, there was a skeleton around the Minerva, and it's being renovated, so I guess it could prepare to be intended -- for the museum's setup. And in order for Minerva to respond to the purpose of setting up the museum, it will take twice as much funding as its value is estimated. Don't lay the devils, here, when we look at the documentation, the Institute of Value Assessment has assessed the 'Minerve' facilities, when privatization is only sent a surface square, even where the bikes have parked, and that vault has been calculated in squares, and the estimate is - 46 million, in dinars I'm saying, that after a short time it would reach value, even though there was no investment, of 102 million, when it was exchanged with these spaces. What else is weird about these spaces? "Minners" are computers and attics, and basements, stairs, steps, toilets, etc., porters, and in these state spaces none of these parameters are considered. One more thing. When the data were delivered from the Directorate on what the area of these seven spaces are given for "Minerva", it was seen to be much more squares than it comes at that flat price where the government and the Directorate allow the exchange - one for one. Then what's going on? The owner of Minerva tried to pay for that difference of squares. Then they realized it couldn't be sold, because the funds were paid to the Directorate, not the municipality of Subotics. Then, in a hurry, they took it all back, so they measured it again, and they came to some even surface, so that the exchange could be made. There's only one space of 40 and a few square meters that's been stolen, I'm talking about the useful ones, and the attics and the basements that don't count. I call on Vojislav Kostunica to finally answer the question of what was going on about the Minerva exchange. Is this perhaps a concession to the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians because of this new coalition agreement between Vojislav Kostunica and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, i.e. The DSS and the Duke Hungarian Alliance? If so, then who gave the right to a technical mandate to give state property in favour of an agreement he made with a political organization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7024	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonko Mihajlovic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the intention of drawing attention to two major problems currently burdened by the Kosovo Serbs to you and the general public in the Republic of Serbia. The first issue concerns elections issued by the interim Kosovo authorities, or the government of Kosovo, headed by Agim Ceku, for the so-called. KIM Assembly and local elections. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as the only normal and logical solution, has decided to invite the Kosovo Serbs to a boycott of these elections. All relevant political parties operating in the space of space listened to the Serbian queen's recommendation, but for the second time (the first time in 2004), however, it was then that the president himself, Mr Boris Tadic, the minor political entities, created by UNMIK, who appeared only before the elections, did not want to listen, recommended their queens, and again reported their participation in those elections. Such a list of candidates, "Serbian", so far is 13. I am interested in what kind of mechanisms does the state of Serbia have to stand in the way of this handful of self-proclaimed Serbian representatives, who, by their participation in these elections, will go directly to order the achievement of the goals of the high-level policy? As far as local elections are concerned, the situation is even worse. The party that makes up the government of the Republic of Serbia, which officially calls for a boycott of these elections, I mean the G17 Plus party, has its own parliamentary lists of candidates, as well as candidates for the president of the municipality. I know the case of Rodoljub Krstic, president of OO G17 plus in Strpc, who is also a candidate for the president of the municipality. When it comes to the list of candidates for committees named the Citizens' Initiative "The Youth Zvecan", our findings say that the membership of G17 plus is behind the list. Also, the SPS has its own lists of candidates for local elections, the PSS, too. There are some minors, locals, above all, citizens' initiatives. I think this kind of serious thing needs to be dealt with more seriously. Serbs in the municipality of Strpce strongly upset the news of Kosovo's trust agency's intention to start the privatisation process of the "Inex" tourist complex, the Brezovica ski centre on Brezovica. What exactly is this about? KPA, which was formed by UNMIK Regulation 2001/13, opposed to UN Resolution 1244, privatises, and I would say, robbery, unprotected state and social property of the Republic of Serbia located in Kosovo and Metohija. Last year, KPA tried to sell this tourist complex. Thanks to strong opposition from the citizens of the municipality of Strpce, Joachim Riker has made a decision to postpone privatisation until the agreement of local self-government, company management and, possibly, the resolution of Kosovo's final status and Metohija is ensured. If it is to trust Deputy Director of the KPA, a certain Mr Ahmet Shala, this agreement between local self-government and company management has already been provided. If that is true, and most Serbs in Strpec believe it is, then this act is considered an act of UNMIK's head of the municipality and the general director of the Inex ski centre as a betrayal of Serbian national and economic interests. It is important to know that the Inex ski centre of Brezovica since 1990 (when it is separated from the 'Inex Interexport') is part of the 'Inex Hotel' from Belgrade. There were also hotels in Sutomor and Baja Garden. After 2000, the "Inex" hotels were returned to the "Inex Holding" (inheritance of the "Inex-export"), which is the majority owner of the Republic of Serbia. This means that the privatisation process can only run 'Inex Holding', not 'Inex Hotels'. The information works, the Brezovica ski centre includes three hotels with 680 rooms, two restaurants and six ski lifts capacity of 10,000 skiers per hour. The ski centre is among the largest in the region, with trails between 1,700 and 2,500 metres high.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7026	Mr. Mihaylovich, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7027	15 more seconds. It is also registered in the International Ski Federation (FIS). Currently, he employs about 220 workers of Serbian nationality and represents an economy skeleton in the undeveloped municipality of Strpce. It is also interesting that the ski center is located at 239 hectares of land that was given by SO Urosevac "Inexu" for use. Later that land was transferred to the Inex ski center. As in what procedure, it's not known to anyone. Papers that speak of land ownership are located, i.e. they were moved, after NATO aggression, to Kruševac. Now all these papers are owned by the KPA. I wonder who did this dirty job for the robbers' interests? Just one more piece of information, the ski centre is located 60km from Pristina and 70km from Skopje's airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7028	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7029	I thank you, but I have a small correction, according to the Rules of Procedure, a letter of psychologist Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic appeared. Yes, I answered about the topic Mr. Misa Petronijevic spoke about. I am convinced that he, as a member of the previous Committee on Poverty Reduction, knows that these data that was presented yesterday in the paper are no news, that these are data that have been known since the time of the 2003 study of poverty and that these are the data contained in the poverty reduction strategy. The poverty reduction strategy in this country has existed since 2003 and it is not the property of any government; this is the third government to implement the poverty reduction strategy. Of course, it's very worrying that in Serbia about 14% of children live on a line or below the poverty line, and that's the information we all need to deal with. What I mean is, I think all MPs have already received a second report from the poverty reduction team, which works with the Serbian government, so I would like us all to read that report. I think it makes it clear that poverty in Serbia is not growing. It was and is still at a worrying level, but poverty in Serbia is not growing. So, what I'm saying is that poverty cannot be extinguished by some one-time measures, nor can it only be possible to provide the poor with social measures. In order for Serbia to be a less poor country, it must, above all, develop economically and worry about many other aspects affecting the increase or reduction of poverty. The poverty reduction strategy also says that, above all, we have to deal with economic reforms, to strengthen Serbia's economy and to encourage employment, and thus reduce poverty. So all macroeconomic indicators in previous years show that Serbia's poverty as a country is decreasing and gross national income is growing. The other thing we have to deal with is the fear of growing new transition poverty, which arises as a result of transition processes. It is also something that we have done successfully so far, given that poverty has not increased. And, of course, only the third aspect is social giving and caring for the most socially endangered, where the children Mr. Petronijevic spoke of are certainly killed. What I think is very important and what we as a congregation have to do, and unfortunately we haven't done, that's two things. First, I have been pushing for years to form a special committee in the Assembly to deal with children and children's rights, which, unfortunately, was not possible for all amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so Serbia will remain a country that does not have a body in the Assembly that will deal specifically with children and their problems. The other thing is more contradictory. In fact, the Assembly has a Committee on the Reduction of Poverty, but I regret to say that in this meeting, the Committee on Poverty Reduction does not work. That is why I call on you, Mr. President, and all those responsible for this, to change this situation as soon as possible so that we can put the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty back into office and to be able to actively engage as the Assembly in all processes, to actively monitor all the processes that the state is conducting with the aim of reducing poverty of all Serbian citizens, and especially poverty of the most vulnerable groups, in which, of course, there are both old and refugees, and single parents, and persons with disabilities, but unfortunately, children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7030	Thank you very much. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7031	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, since, after this speaker or, in general, in this House of People's Parliament, the practice of using the term "Sceptar" for Albanians has been established, I wanted to ask for an explanation. Is that in an offensive context, is that some new scientific theory, like the one about Vlassa, that we had yesterday in this room to hear? From my knowledge, in many years of events, and in the press, and in a lot of media, this term "Shiptar" is generally used in an offensive sense. I think, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, it's okay to use a term that's generally known, that the whole world uses and I don't see what's the reason we're playing with these serious and sensitive things. In the time that I have left to say that I am glad that the previous MP is responding, he is probably from Strpce, to the privatisation process. He says -- a UNMIK representative has stopped the privatisation of the complex, which is important for the municipality. I have used this pay phone several times to address the ministry in this assembly. Why is it so stubborn of the Ministry of Infrastructure, previously, for capital investments, that a monopoly is given to one firm, a Belgrade firm, and that all other existing companies operating in the business are ignored, and the issue concerns gas stations, businesses and profits that can be produced from there? It's just, they're here now, they-they didn't want, two arches. What I was saying about Han again, I repeat, quickly, with one session of the Han Municipality Assembly, the privatisation of "Balkan Brica" was interrupted, because the buyer was an Albanian. In the opposite direction, when the Presevo Assembly initiates the procedure, it is ignored and given to a monopoly of a company that has everything and everything on that border crossing of Presevo, and that in this domestic company, there is no way of hiring or launching a business on what is said to be a living resource, not only for that municipality, but for all municipalities where Corridor 10 passes, especially for us and the border crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7032	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Misa Petronijevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been misread, and that's basic reporting. Mr. President, please do not consider what Mrs. Snezana Stojanović-Plasic has been saying to answer my question. What am I misread? I did not ask for an answer and an explanation from Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, I asked the government for an answer. Secondly, I was not talking about the poverty reduction strategy, I was talking about the need for Serbia to bring a childcare strategy. If that's a dispute, we can talk about it. Third, I only warned that the congregation would think carefully about the information, not dealing with anything that had been previously, but turned to what should be in the future, i.e. I asked if 400,000 children and 600,000 old pensioners were living in poverty, so a million, was enough reason for the Assembly to deal with this issue and asked about the answer. Then, I wasn't talking about ad hoc measures, because our request to abolish the value added tax for baby equipment is not an ad hoc measure and it's not social protection. Finally, there is no realisation of any child's rights, and it will remain a dead letter on paper if the state does not provide funds. The point of my exposure was, exactly, that's what it was. There's a budget and an opportunity to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7034	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vucic, MP of the people, Zvonimir Stević, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't have gone out for this pay phone if I hadn't listened to Mr. Reese Halimi's exposure, in which I couldn't understand anything. I guess only Albanians have the right to get a job in Presevo, I guess only Albanians have the right to get a job in Strpc, I guess only Albanians have the right to get a job anywhere, or wherever Riza Halimi thinks it is, and no one else can get a job. I don't know what the real name is for Albania, Scepteria, if I'm not mistaken. As they say in the West - Scipery, or as the Albanians themselves say, but it's a lot like that - Shiptar, so I don't know what's offensive about it. It's no one's intention to insult you, but if it offends you, okay, we'll call you an Albanian, it's no problem. Don't lecture us about how only you can have a job, how only your children have a mouth, and Serbian children shouldn't eat and no one else should eat except Albanians. I went out for a pay phone for one more thing. Last night, for who knows which time, from Bruno Vekaric, the spokesman of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, we listened to attacks on the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, of course, at times when Vojislav Seselj or anyone else in the SRS was unable to oppose him. Of course, they're always in politics, they're not in law enforcement, the man's not even professional in law enforcement, he's only in high school, and then Batic hired him as a spokesman for the Justice Department, so, no qualifications, no serious school, no law school. A man started to salt our brains, but every day he knows what it's doing to someone somewhere. I don't know if you've noticed, Mr. Dulic, I've never been itchy, I don't know about the others, but I might as well be a spokesman for the D.A.'s office, as well as a war crimes prosecutor, a little order to learn, a policy not to deal with. But I'm going to do them today at a press conference at 13pm, and now I'm going to deal with the Serbian state's co-operation with The Hague tribunal. A few of my questions, Mr. President, for you, but also a few important notices to the general public. I don't know if you knew that one of the Hague investigators, a certain Zdrlic, is winding and dressing in Serbia. It's no wonder he's Australian, for God's sakes, by his own origin, otherwise, as you will see from the evidence I'm about to give you, the son of a hard-core Ustasha and one of the greatest criminals in World War II. It is a man who, in proceedings against Milosevic, and today, in an attempt to obtain false witnesses against Vojislav Seselj, plays one of the key roles. Namely, here's a list here, Mr. National Assembly President, a list for the villages of the Supremes, the Poličnik and the Hunter, for the war and war victims of World War II. They're all killed Ustashas. All Ustashas were killed, except for one, and there are many on the list - 81. One later became a partisan, but one did not become a partisan at all, but disappeared in 1945 on the Crossroad, the rat channels, through the Vatican, fled to Australia. It's about Zdrlic Mother Ante Ivanov, born 5. 06. In 1922, and missing in 1945 on the Crossroad. That's the father, right there, of this Squirt who cheers and dresses for us today. The prodigal son of the Ustasha emigration they bring us here, who should bring some witnesses and explain that Serbs are the greatest criminals, that Serbs committed the most terrible crimes. I hear that he participated, not yet fully confirmed, I would not give you incomplete information, and in the murder of my family, in the liquidation of the entire family of Vucic and some other families in the village of Cipulić, but it is still being checked. Certainly a great criminal participated in the killing of all families in villages, i.e. in the parishes of Poličnik and Lovovac. The villain is going around Serbia today, lying in every place, from Kosovo and Metohija, as he did against Slobodan Milosevic, to this day, going and threatening, lying, looping, inventing and blackmailing different people to testify against Vojislav Seselj, thinking that no one should tell him anything. Along with some other people from The Hague tribunal's investigative team, in agreement with Mr Vukcevic and Mr Vekaric, members of the secret police of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the BIA, who visit some people daily, threaten them, convince them. In doing so, I have to say that these BIA people have to do their job, and I don't think they're very glad that they have to participate in such a dirty and blurry job, but they blackmail people and explain to them that if they don't happen to testify against Vojislav Seselj in front of The Hague tribunal, they will be alone in big problems. Look at what the state of Serbia has fallen to. I'm sorry, Mr. President, for taking up so much of your time. If the state of Serbia is going to coerce and the rest of them in this way to command and explain how Serbia can and must be destroyed and how representatives of its political life, based on their false testimony, should be condemned, then we are close to failure. I hope we start changing these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7036	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Zvonimir Stević, then the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi, appeared. I suggest we move on to the agenda then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, 101st and 104th, and related to the presentation of my colleague from Strpco Zvonko Mihajlovic on the elections scheduled for November 17th by the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. The SPS was mentioned. I want to say that the public and citizens, above all, of Serbian nationality, well know what the SPS's position is when elections in Kosovo and Metohija are at stake, when the first elections were, when they were second, and those third. Time has shown that we were right. From the very beginning, since the peacemakers' arrival, the SPS has had the view that Kosovo elections should not be taken out. We know what the fate of the Return Coalition was. The award for this coming out and giving legality and legitimacy to the authorities of Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian people felt good on March 17th. And for these elections now, locally, the SPS has a clear view -- that we should not go to elections, for many reasons. The main reasons are that even after eight years, no minimum conditions have been created in the area of Kosovo and Metohija for the lives of citizens in the territory. There is no freedom of movement, no return of property, no return to employment, and only 7,000 violent Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were returned in 8 years. Another reason, for these 8 years, the international community has not even tried to find instruments to protect against the malversion of the majority population in Kosovo and Metohija. The "Citizen's Initiative" for the elections, it's not an attitude and programme, is not a decision by the Socialist Party. The SPS municipal board in Strpc, the entire network in Kosovo and Metohija and the centre are not behind it. We Socialists are not for these elections, but for elections by the National Assembly, or the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7038	According to Business, MP Riza Halimi and Aleksandar Martinovic and Dragan Vujadinovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7039	Mr. President, once again, ladies and gentlemen, it is still necessary to tell the truth about the term. Well, I guess everyone knows that both Germans and Hungarians have a similar situation as Albanians, but for this speaker and, in general, in the media, they never use original terms, but they use a common term in any way. If the Albanians are a minority here, and you're giving them a new name - Shipari, are we now creating a new nation here? You know, what consequences come after, if you have that kind of approach. I'm saying that the term "Sciptari" is mostly used in a persuasive, offensive sense, it's fact and reality. I don't see why you would use the term "Scipnia" for Albania, because I haven't heard that anyone in this room and in this House has used that term for Albania. So there's the term "Albania" and "Albanians" and they're both in Albania and Kosovo, and here -- Albanians and nothing else. What's the need for different terms, again, in the context I just said? The principle that both Serbs and Albanians should work, Mr. Vukic, is a democratic approach, but the problem here is that Albanians at the border crossing have no cure. That's the problem now, that's the logic that you shouldn't. Only about a month ago, from the local police, from that multiethnic system, they transferred two more because of these criticisms. Because if you go to Macedonia -- there are Macedonians, Serbs and all of them working on that border crossing. Which is why we would be the exception, which is the rule, does it say in the Constitution, does it say in the Law? You'll probably say no, and then why is practice like that? So, I didn't advocate being just Albanians, but also being Albanians, because that's a civilization requirement. Finally, what has been said since 2001, through the Coordination Body, whose mouth is full of praise about what results have been achieved in this area, and they have never agreed to an analysis, to take a realistic look at what they have done, what they have not done, because in the integration of Albanians at all, that is, they have failed at nothing. Look at the Coordination Body for Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear. In the co-ordination body, which the Serbian government has formed since 2000, apart from the translators, there is not one Albanian as the executive or expert staff, although the body should work for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, where most of them are Albanians. Where does that make sense? That's what we're talking about, Mr. Vukic, that Albanians are nowhere near, that in some institutions they are not represented at all. We're talking about this civilization request, that we finally solve it, that we're not dealing with this problem anymore. I think Mr. Sarovic said in Bujanovac the Albanian majority, or party, had eliminated representatives of Serbs. I give you the information that within the administration of the commissioners, internal distribution, half Albanians, and half Serbs. In institutions that are competent in local self-government, there is approximately, the orientation is - 60% of the Albanian leaders and 40% of the Serbs. And with the state authorities, there are no Albanians, all in turn Serbs in the state bodies of the local level, the municipal level. Let me add the next piece of information to you. Where Albanians run local self-government, 35% of Albanians were employed, and 70% of Serbs, and in state authorities it is the other way around, because only 10%, and less than 10% have Albanians. It is the current ethnic structure of the Bujanovac municipality, which lists 60% of Albanians and about 30% of Serbs and 10% of Roma and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7040	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and then MP Dragan Vujadinovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7041	It's always my exposure, Mr. Dulic, towards the end of the debate. So, Mr. Halimi, I have no problem calling you whatever you want. If you do not like the word "gorštak", which in translation means the word we called you, "Siptar", or "Schiptar", or whatever, we will call you whatever you want. If it makes you feel so beautiful, more beautiful and easier, that's what we'll call you. I only have one request for you. So, to break up with these powerful declarations and resolutions that will tear up parts of our territories, from Kosovo and Metohija, to what you called the Presevo Valley. You can call yourself whatever you want. Do you know how many people in Serbia have declared to belong to the Eskimos and I don't know who! I'm not saying this looks like it, but you can in any way state the name of your nation, or national minorities. No problem in Serbia has you ever had and no one has ever created that problem for you. Mr. Halimi, why don't you say why you're so nervous about building that border crossing and everything else, how much money did these party colleagues of yours, who already have gas stations there, how much money did you get from the 2001 Coordination Centre? Here, here, the MEPs, so let's say, while Covic was president of the Coordination Centre, how much money did you get? You received billions of dinars for Serbian villages, and nothing went there. You didn't say anything true about the Bujanovac. First, everyone who told you they had ties to the SRS kicked out, and you know that in Bujanovac, the SRS has more than all the other Serbian parties combined, as our candidate received three times more votes than the candidate of all other Serbian parties together. You won our candidates there by 51:47, Stoimanovic. So 51.5:47. Is this a relationship for 80-20, how much is the real state of both employees and managers at the Bujanovac municipality level? Where did you get the right, and where did you have to complain about it? Who do you want us to hire in particularly sensitive places, or - that the state employs those who come out with paper every day and a declaration in which you will advocate the independence of Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. How many times have you said yourself that you are for Ahtisaari's plan and for independent Kosovo? You are sitting in this assembly and, of course, we are democratically speaking to you until you are ready to take up arms, because we are ready to endure and attack the Serbian Constitution, and the Serbian state, as long as it is verbal. We listen and suffer when you take down our flag of Serbian in Presevo, when you do the same thing in Bujanovac, we suffer because you mention Medvedja to us, although I don't understand by what criteria and Medvedja, in general, you suffer, where, with all those you drive from Pristina and the environment, there is no 20%. What more do you want from the Serbs? All rights, in accordance with the highest international standards, you have. You get the money three times more than the Serbs living in that same space. What else do you want from us? What else do you want from the state of Serbia? That, to be informed through all the media and to be overjoyed when you celebrate flag day, so you raise the Albanian flag instead of Serbian, is that it? You line up UCK terrorists, or UCPBM, as they are already called, those bandits who have already repeatedly shot at Serbian police officers and gendarmes, etc. Is that what you're asking us to do? Excuse me, Mr. Halimi, you won't be expecting this from us. You won't welcome that from the representatives of the SRS, and if you're going to welcome someone, I doubt anyone in this assembly will understand. One more thing, Mr. Halimi, come out for this pay phone, and I'll be ready to come out right now and apologize for everything I've said, to say, it's my fault, I'll be the happiest man today, just come out and say, I'm just as straight as you are, respecting the state of Serbia in accordance with its Constitution bounded by borders. So, I, like you, want all rights for Albanians, but I believe that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If you say so, Mr. Halimi, I take off my hat, congratulate you and apologize for every word. I'm telling you right now you'll never say that, Mr. Halimi. What, then, is the right to go out here to teach us any moral lessons and to explain to us what our relationship is to those who wish to abolish our country, who would take away some of our territory? Show us that anywhere in the world, most people have better, smarter, I'm not sure - smarter, but better, I'd say, and a better attitude towards a national minority, or its political representatives who want to secede or separate part of its territory. You won't find such a land on the globe, Mr. Halimi. Thank God you live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because Serbia has given you the opportunity to advocate both its destruction and its destruction, without any consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7042	Riza Halimi, come in. I'm sure your exposure will be in favor of the end of this interesting debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7043	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was talking about two topics. There are now countless topics open here that I would like to discuss, arguments. There will likely be opportunities to discuss arguments within regular points. Now on this issue, does anyone allow me and the Albanians to live freely on their hearths, in their houses. I think that this topic is absolutely, absolutely immaterial -- that now someone, or radicals, or this or that government, allows Albanians to live freely where they have lived for centuries and millenniums. I think it's really groundless. That's one thing. Secondly, the other day, an MP here said I could breathe clean air, so we should thank for that, that we breathe clean air there. These topics are really bizarre, but let's start with order. I have had opportunities and I will express my views when there is a second chance, when it comes to Kosovo, I have always said that this is a democratic issue solved by the citizens of Kosovo. I am here a representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley, so I can speak on behalf of my voters, not on behalf of these voters who have not participated in these elections at all. (From Hall: is Kosovo Serbia or not? We'll open that topic. Let me bring out the little thing here, the things that were said and they were called. First, let's see whose right it is that, however anyone wants, it's a sticker, it's like it's for sale. What matters is to Vukic, or Sarovic, or someone to call Albanians the Shiptars, the people of God, is that anyone's right? It is known, unique, if it has respect and order; there are encyclopedias and there is practice and let's stick to it, without these premises that have this offensive character. As for the vote in the Bujanovac municipality, the radicals were barely the strongest, but not close to the information that MP Vukic made, because at least 50% of the votes our candidate received in the elections. The conclusion he had made, based on these votes, that such an ethnic structure was absolutely inappropriate. I'll give you election data at the next session, I'm sure your data is wrong. I'm telling you, our candidate received at least 50 percent of the Bujanovac municipality votes. (From Hall: is Kosovo Serbia or not? ) Let's move on, as far as employment rights are concerned, I don't think anyone has the right to change constitutional principles, legal principles, and to advocate, in the name of democracy, for quite some other, radical, principles. As for the declaration we gave, we gave our declaration on Saturday, asking that, after seven years, life problems faced by Albanians and discrimination in terms of employment and non-resolvement of education. Do you know that this country and this government have no idea about the higher education of their citizens? Citizens of this state, absolutely, don't even get a dinar from the Republic grant fund, for loans, at all, the government has no idea where young Albanians Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje finish high schools...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7044	Mr. Halimi, I'm really asking you to slowly bring this interesting exposure to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7045	... that we are seriously discussing certain topics, because they really require a serious approach. It's finally time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7046	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, but let's finish, let's really finish this debate, it's pointless to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7047	He shouldn't have been too smart, so know what Mr. Halimi's politics is. I did this not by accident, I did this not for Mr. Halimi and for the Serbs, not even for our Serbs in Bujanovac and Presevo and in Kosovo and Metohija, who know what the policy of Riza Halimi is. I have done this because of those who out of various NGOs every day have given us the sense that, behold, some are impatient toward minority MPs, i.e. to the members of the national minorities and not to let them say everything they think. I have done this on purpose to show that you have a man in Parliament who openly advocates you for cleaving territory, who is openly fighting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and who would in any way destroy Serbia. I know, Mr. Halimi, that you think that this is, as you say, a democratic issue, that the Albanian majority should decide on Kosovo's independence. I didn't hear you say that the democratic issue when Serbs Krajisniks made a decision to stay in the former Yugoslavia, I didn't hear you say that Serbs in Republika Srpska had the right to make a decision, and they were a constituent people in the former Yugoslavia, and Albanians were only members of the national minority everywhere, and from the rights of national minorities they cannot possibly produce a constitutional right to self-determination and the creation of a state. It's legal-politically observed. Mr. Hallimi, I'm surprised you don't know the results of the election in Bujanovac. The relationship was much smaller than ever, because you were surprised by the support the Roma population gave to the SRS candidate, largely and largely. That's why Ceke Stojmenovic has received as much and never more votes lately, than a Serbian candidate against Arifi can get. I know you're not particularly interested in that. And if it were 55, which it isn't, but it's 51 or 52, I would ask you, Mr. Hallimi, to tell me what that has to do with 80 or 90% of the Albanian employees in the leading positions? Where are the Serbs? Are they citizens of the second order, are Serbs supposed to breathe fresh air, as you say, everywhere, not only in Kosovo, but also in Presevo, Bujanovac and elsewhere? Mr. Hallimie, I wasn't saying here that you should be grateful that you're breathing fresh air or that you live on your hearths of "millions", you've gone a little too far, but maybe you don't know what a millennium is, so you've mixed up with centuries, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. At the end of the line, Mr. Hallimi, the point is not whether you breathe fresh air because you breathe it, but my question for you is - do Serbs breathe fresh air in Kosovo Polje, do they breathe it in Caglavica or in Lippan, do they breathe it in Pec, Prizren, Gorazdevec, Kamenica, Vitini, Novi Brdo, Priluj, Plemetina, Babina Most, do they breathe it in Presevo and Bujanovac, do they breathe it in Trnovac, Mr. Hallimi? I'm not transferring it to you, I'm transferring it to the rest of us, because it's hard for us. That's why we see, after all your exposure, why and how our country has fallen. It's all our fault, Serbs, to blame. That's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7048	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Namely, I am obliged to inform the citizens of Serbia and the MPs sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that DS, led by its state administration minister and local self-government, Milan Markovic, is trying to take over power in the municipality of Ruma in an illegal manner these days. To remind you, the municipality of Ruma was then called the "radical fortress in Srem". That's what's left until today. In the January 2007 elections, the SRS voter list won 39.30% of voters' votes and the DS voter list less than 23%. However, the Democratic Party, seeking to rephrase October 5th in the municipality of Ruma, these days, with the help of its State Administration Minister and local self-government Milan Markovic, is trying to take over by breaking the Law on Local Self-Government by violating the Law on Local Elections and the Rules of Procedure of the So Ruma, the municipality. What's this about? A session of the Assembly of the Municipality was scheduled for 12 September 2007. After the session opened, the president of the assembly found that the former SRS committees, two ladies and one man, were involved, and I am not going to mention their names here now, stopped the council's mandates because they resigned. The resignations shall be signed by those committees by hand and shall not constitute any forgeries. After the speaker of the assembly found the end of the term of office, according to the Law on Local Elections, Article 45, paragraph 1, paragraph 2), there was an indescribable crowd. These great committees from the tobacco Democratic Party, which seems to have a monopoly to introduce us to the European Union, tried to cause a physical incident, insulted the president of the Assembly, without permission took a word and went out for a pay phone, and the president of the Assembly was left with nothing but to interrupt the session. After the session was interrupted and after the legal president of the Assembly left the hall, DS committees and their satellites stayed in the hall, along with three citizens who had stopped the mandate and who were no longer a boardman at the time, and continued the session, in which, contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, the President of the Assembly and Deputy President of the Assembly had been replaced. The president of the Assembly is from the SRS, and his deputy is from the SPS. Yesterday around 13.45 p.m., and to remind you, it was a time when the SRS fiercely criticised the Bill on the State Seal and the Bill on the Seal of State and Other Authorities, while Minister Markovic walked here nervously with his hands in his pockets, laughed and sent messages over his mobile phone, a letter came to SO Ruma through college that I don't know what his legal nature was. There is nowhere to be called Mr. Markovic to be a member of any law, there is no name for this act, therefore it does not say that it is the solution, nor that it is the conclusion, nor that it is a recommendation, anything. This is a private interpretation of a citizen, as he interprets the Law on Local Self-Government, in a very unprofessional and party-colored way. Dear Serbian citizens, see how Minister Markovic interprets whether someone has stopped their mandate. "It is indisputable that at the 28th session of SO Ruma, held on 12 September 2007, after opening the session, Parliament Speaker Dr Ljubisa Jezimirovic found that the representatives of Ružica Dimlic, Snezana Brkic and Ozren Bojic had resigned to the duties of the board, and that, according to Article 45 paragraph 1 2) of the Law on Local Elections, stopped the mandate of the panel in SO Ruma," and only two sentences later, the same minister said, "In this state of affairs, it is clear that they did not get the conditions for the termination of the mandate of Parliaments Ružica Dimlic, Snezana Brkić and Ozren Bojic. "According to SO Ruma's Rules of Procedure, voting ballots, when voting on the resolution of the president of the assembly, must be certified by the SO seal. That, in this case, didn't happen. Here's how the minister interprets it: "Decisions were made by the majority of votes required, and there were no injuries to the procedures that took place or that could affect the legality of the decisions themselves." It is clear that by breaking the constitution, breaking the law, by violating its powers as a civil servant, the minister is trying, in an illegal manner, to introduce a party that does not have a foothold in the electoral body to power, in violation of the national will expressed in the 2004 elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7050	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7051	At the same time, the same government, at the state level, does not want to call elections for mayor of Belgrade, although conditions have come under the Law on Local Elections and the Law on Local Self-Government, as it fears that it will beat the SRS candidate in these elections. Please, President of the Assembly, allow me to ask two parliamentary questions to Minister Markovic. First, on the basis of which member of the Law on Local Self-Government has given such an interpretation of the events at the session of SO Rum and what is the legal nature of this memo that has arrived?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from 10 o'clock, when we began our work, 20 MPs came forward on account of the Rules of Procedure. Since there are five other MPs on the list, and since we spent an hour and 16 minutes working on different subjects, I have to inform you that I will have to strictly comply with the business provisions relating to the three-minute exposure. Both yesterday and today, I tried to, first of all, by my inaction, or by not warning on time, appeal to your responsibility to bring your parliamentary questions and presentations down to three minutes, which apparently proved impossible, so I will orderly warn you when your third minute expires. Please, after these MPs have come forward, we are really starting to discuss and we are respecting the time and these citizens who are watching us and this Parliament, who are costing you. According to Business, MP Dragan Vujadinovic, then Dr Nikola Zutic, Vladan Batic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vlatko Ratkovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7053	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, first of all, I apologize for contributing myself to delaying the start of the debate on the subject, but I think this subject of mine deserves it. It's about the influence of overestimated, in my opinion, the rate of dinar on net exporters, on those companies that have higher foreign inflows than foreign exchange outflows. As for the rate of dinars and income of net exporters, he is 36 months nominally at the same amount. Meanwhile, prices grew to a little, officially, about 36 per cent, and some inputs, important inputs, grew to 50 per cent. All this conditioned that the net exporters, on their salaries, from the centre of the list in Serbia, became 'fencers', all exporters became 'fencers', or the export competitiveness of our economy and large net exporters fell drastically. And why are they still exporting? Because they don't have an alternative. Because the domestic market is small, which is not a demand and is the only alternative to stopping production. It is known that all economic analysts and the public agree that the current too strong dinar, in fact, is a basic stabilization anchor that defends single-digit inflation, because, on the other hand, public consumption is increased. We could agree, but where's the alternative, where's the substitution for the net exporters. It is completely illogical for the export competitiveness of the economy to be reduced in a situation where our external trade deficit has reached and has reached 15 percent of the gross social product. In that sense, I use the presence of Mr. Cvetkovic to appeal to the government to consider the position of the net exporter. I quote the creator of the Slovenian economic miracle, whom Professor Cvetkovic knows well, Jože Menciger, who says, "I don't understand the prime minister and governor who give primate to single-digit inflation and price stability, compared to the state of economy, I don't understand it." And just one more thing, our economists said that one percent of the dinar growth, the dinar depression, is causing 0.25 percent inflation. So why didn't we do that, by 10 percent of the rate growth we'd have an inflation increase of 2.5 percent. That's better for net exporters, for the export competitiveness of the economy, than we defend single-digit inflation at any cost. I ask Mr Cvetkovic to, if possible, give the net exporters the government as soon as possible to answer the question of what they can expect and what to hope for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7054	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Žutic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. Let's go back to the name of Shiptar, an Albanian who was run here by Mr. Halimi. The emissaries, they insult themselves, for they call themselves the Shiptars. They called themselves the Shiptars until the 1970s. It should be pointed out that it is officially, originally, Albania's name is Shiparia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7056	Mr. Žutić, by which member of the Rules of Procedure did you answer, since we're trying to get things in order?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7057	Reporting under Article 226. So, Albania itself calls itself "Syptaria", officially, and the name Albanians comes from an Italian word, which is also a new date, so that these stories of Mr. Halimi about the encyclopedias, do not stand, especially on the encyclopaedia of Yugoslavia, which was written by Albanian historian Ali Hadri. They're forgeries themselves. Next, until World War II, the Shipars were called the Arnautima, the Arbanas. The numerous Arabs were Serbs of Islamic religion, which, because of the religious component, through Albanianization, became the Cypriots, or Albanians today. It is clear that the name - Albanians have only been used since the 1970s, for political, large Albanian purposes, for the purpose of creating a great Albania. Especially in 1968, when Fadil Hoxha abolished even the name Metohija. Just to see briefly and clearly what the real scientific and historical facts are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7058	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7059	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, breach of Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, a question for Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Is it true that certain municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija have received funds from the Kosovo and Metohija budget since 2001, in what amount and for what purposes? Have some institutions in northern Kosovo, since 2001, received funds from the Kosovo and Metohija budget, in what amount, for which purposes and how has these funds been shown? Did municipalities from Kosovo and institutions from Kosovo and Metohija receive funds for the same purpose from the Republic of Serbia's budget? I'm asking all this because of the dual morale of some Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Speaking of the Albanian minority, which has most of the resources in the government of Kosovo and Metohija, they call them the ugliest words, but when they get the money, it stops. Looks like the money doesn't have a national omen. Looks like the double morale is very present. A few questions for the minister himself. How many employees at this time are there at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? It is more than many, by definition, larger, larger ministries, which, due to need, should have more employees. How many new advisers have been employed in the past month at the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? Is it between 30 and 50? What's the minister doing with all these counselors? Does he know their names? Is that how Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija defend themselves? Another question, which has nothing to do with this, but I was pulled back by Mr. Wolfich, speaking of clean air. From this pay phone, I asked the Minister for Ecology, thanking him for taking effective action and filing criminal charges for fishing in some rivers, but asking to deal with the sea of citizens, people, for the enormous pollution and incidents that occur, for example, in the territory of the Obrenovac municipality. The minister says, in response, that he did not file criminal charges because there was no measurement data, and people there die every day from enormous pollution, from the ashes, because when the ashes are raised, there are no villages in Krtinska, Urovci, Mladost. That's irresponsible. Mr. President, one remark to you. You just admitted to breaking the Rules of Procedure yourself. You can't say - now I won't violate the Rules of Procedure, from now on, the advertising will take three minutes. Well, you've introduced that practice. You've allowed certain MPs to speak nine minutes each about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So the Rules of Procedure can never be broken and must be consistent and consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7060	Thank you. That's what I'm going to do, Mr. Batic, thank you for your remarks. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic and then MP Vlatko Ratkovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7061	So, the first basis is the replica, because Mr. Riza Halimi mentioned me by name on several occasions, and the second is about the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Riza, you say that you are allegedly at risk in the area of Presevo and Bujanovac. I don't know why, completely unwarranted, you're putting Bear in that area. You're making up some new geographical concepts. Everyone is well aware that Bear has nothing to do with Presevo and Bujanovac. Even, it belongs to a completely different, i.e. the Jablani County, not the Pchini County, like these first two municipalities you've talked about. Second thing, you say you can't breathe. I don't know what that's from, Mr. Halimi. You hold absolute power in Presevo, you hold absolute power in Bujanovac, not counting on Mr Novic Manojlovic of the DS, with whom you are in the coalition, but he cannot be called a Serb representative, because there are only representatives of the SRS. I'll remind you of the election results, you weren't sure. Our candidate in the local elections, the municipal president's candidate, Mr. Svetislav Stojmenovic, received 9056 votes in the second round, from less than 11,000 registered Serbs. It clearly states how much the Serb wish to be represented by representatives of the SRS is there. Now I'm going to take the opportunity to mention some other things. Under absolute control, you also hold the Bujanovac Radio Television, therefore local television, which should serve the interests of all citizens, regardless of which nationality or religion they belong. The television is required, as well as everyone else, to respect both the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think the Republic Broadcasting Agency would have to do much more, despite the fact that most of the programme is in Albanian, i.e. Representatives of the Republic Broadcasting Agency are obliged to familiarise themselves with the work of that television, especially with the content you broadcast. On June 15th of this year, I filed a criminal report to the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj, because 25, 26 and 27 May, from 20 hours on Radio TV, Bujanovac was broadcast on a show in which members of a terrorist organisation, so-called "Bujanovac". The Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje, and its political representatives urged and encouraged members of the Albanian national minority to commit a criminal act of endangering the territorial continent of the Republic of Serbia, as referred to in Article 307. KZRS, criminal acts of armed rebellion, referred to in Article 311. The KZRS, as well as the execution of a criminal act of terrorism, referred to in Article 312. KZRS. I also believe that criminal acts have been committed to challenge national, racial and religious hatred and impatience, as referred to in Article 317. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, and the criminal act of preparing the work against the constitutional order and security of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7062	Mr. Sarovic, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7063	Mr. Dulic, the subject is very serious and you would have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7064	The subject is, of course, serious, but you'll be reporting to the Rules of Procedure again, so you'll continue. We have to strictly respect the Rules of Procedure, because, obviously, it's not possible to impose order in a different way here. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Vlatko Ratkovic, and Riza Halimi, then You.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7065	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I will respect the time laid down by the Rules of Procedure. It concerns the general situation in the municipality of Rum. This way I address, primarily, the citizens of the municipality of Rum. I am sorry that my dear colleague, Mr Martinovic, is a master of legal science, who also prepares the doctoral dissertation, must also be behind this pay phone and elsewhere to correct the consequences of a catastrophic, destructive and autistic policy led by the SRS establishment in Ruma, and this establishment is presented as the president of the municipality of Rum Srdjan Nikolic, who, just to remind me, and removed from the position of the chairman of the SRS Municipal Committee in Ruma. I think it's precedent throughout Serbia. After that, the president of the municipality had one deputy, whom he deunced, then another deputy, who he deunced. I'm gonna do a little dyspression. Since 2005, less than a year after the local elections, several SRS council members, then the SRS president, the SRS municipality's deputy president, SPS and DSS representatives and several independent committees, have initiated a meeting with the Democratic Party in Ruma over the insufferable state in the local self-government of the municipality of Ruma. I don't think my colleague Martinovic was a member of the SRS at the time, I don't think so. As for the choices that my colleague was talking about, in the Republic elections, I'm going to set a fresher example, which is an example than two weeks ago. In the Platchevo Meat Community, elections were held for the Council of the Meat Community, where 15 candidates were elected for the Council and, to express myself sportingly, the result was 15:0 for the DS. As for the Act of the Ministry called upon by an esteemed colleague, I'll just say the following. The Democratic Party has been on several occasions over the last three years, and while the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government was Mr Loncar, intervened and delivered performances, pointing to violations of the law, the Rules of Procedure and the Statute of the Assembly of Ruma, and we respected all decisions made by the minister at the time. I urge representatives of the SRS at the local level and counterpart Martinovic, as a legalist, as an intellectual, to respect the decisions of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The resignations of these three committee members, to which they are called, do not exist. These three councillors, Ruzica Divnic, Snezana Brkic and, I think, Ozren Bojic did not deliver those resignations, on the contrary, they filed criminal charges against the NN perpetrators for the criminal act of falsifying an official document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7066	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi and then MP Nemanja Sarovic appeared. I would like to give an explanation to MP Nemanja Sarovic immediately. I have no intention of interrupting anyone in the middle of a sentence, but obviously this is the only way we can bring this debate into line on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have three minutes, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7067	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for objectivity, I have just received information from the Bujanovac municipality from the last election. Nagip Arifi had 10,541 votes, 53.79%, the candidate of the Stojmenovic Radical - 9.056 votes, 46.21%. In a hurry, me and MP Vukic provided information that doesn't match up with this. I was 55%, he was 51%, for our candidate, but here's the truth. Now, bear theme, I dropped it a little bit. There's a couple of times in here that's why I'm talking about Bear in the first place. Let me explain. The Democratic Action Party, formed in 1990, brings Albanians together in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. The Medvedja municipality had 33% of Albanians in 1981, and in 1991, 28% of Albanians; from 33%, that percentage fell to 28%. Currently, there are only 7%, approximately 700 to 800 Albanians in the Medvedje municipality. A huge number, some 4,000 Albanians, left their hearths after the Kumanovo Agreement, when the military and police retired from Kosovo and concentrated in the area, mainly Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. There were then a number of serious incidents, and in that atmosphere they left their hearths, as the Albanians in Karadah, Presevo municipality, and in all the mountainous areas of the Bujanovac municipality, have not yet returned. I'm talking about it in this context, and we can talk about moving in general. Since Bear's current, I'm talking about Bear. The Albanians and Serbs used to go from Medvedje for economic reasons, of course. I'm talking about these latest developments in the Bear Community, so mostly in these seven years, from the Kumanovo Agreement to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7068	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7069	I see no reason here to prevent an MP from talking about his constituents. The Albanians of the Bear are my voters and they simply make...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7070	Normal. Thank you, sir. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, also called. I hope then we can move on to the debate on the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7071	Mr. Halimi, here's one thing we might agree on. You say the Albanians left Medvedja when the army and police withdrew from Kosovo and Metohija. So, we agree, the Serbian army and police should return to Kosovo and Metohija, and then the Albanians will be able to return to Medvedje. The other thing, Mr. Dulic, I said I answered two basics. My first foundation was in line with the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, as a replica to Mr. Riza Halimi, and my second basis was in line with Article 226. It's extremely incorrect that you interrupted me. The discussion was very serious. I can only understand that you, as a representative of the DS, are protecting your coalition partner, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7072	Just a second, Mr. Sarovic. Let's get this over with. So it's not possible to merge the debate on two basiss. You got the word on one basis, you spoke for three minutes. I warned you. Here comes a new time, now you'll get a new time for a second base. You have a business opportunity to report back a hundred more times if you want, but understand the need to impose order at this point, given that we spent almost two hours at a hearing on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, you've got a new time, based on what you wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7073	Mr. Dulic, don't violate the Rules of Procedure, and then we'll spend much less time discussing your violations of the Rules of Procedure. So you broke the Rules of Procedure again, you had no right to interrupt me, and you interrupted me just because you didn't have enough patience to listen to me for three minutes on which I was entitled. I will continue to discuss Mr. Reese Halimi's actions in the Bujanovac area, to see what kind of a Democrats he is. So, on May 25, 26th and 27th, in a prime time of 20 hours, a show was broadcast with magnificent members and the objectives of a terrorist organization, so-called "Train". The Preshevo Bujanovac and Bear Liberation Army. The leader of the terrorist organisation Ridvan Qazimi was presented as a freedom fighter for the Albanian people to end the occupation of the three municipalities mentioned by the Republic of Serbia. As is known, at the end of 2001, or late 2000 and early 2001, 25 members of the Army and police of the Republic of Serbia died in conflicts with this terrorist organisation. Ridvan Qazimi himself, a terrorist, was executed in the execution of one of those terrorist attacks. In addition to Ridvan Qazimija, who was the main star of this show, Riza Halimi, a National MP to the Republika Srpska Assembly, appeared Nagip Arifi, the president of the Bujanovac municipality, Jonuz Musliu, the vice president of the Bujanovac municipality and others. The video also shows parts of the gatherings that were organized to mark the day of the death of Ridhan Qazimi, whom terrorists called 'Captain Leshi'. I asked the district public prosecutor's office to review the allegations and the views expressed on the mentioned show, because it is inadmissible for someone who is in such important positions in the Republic of Serbia to hold these views, which has led to a number of crimes. It is unacceptable for anyone to encourage, support or justify attacks on representatives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and terrorism, or to advocate the national secession of any part of the Republic of Serbia, which is indisputably the goal of this terrorist organisation, which Mr. Riza Halimi promotes. The show also shows members of the so-called The Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje in the village of Samoljica and Končulj, in masked uniforms, armed with automatic rifles and other weapons, as they prepare to carry out and directly carry out terrorist attacks on representatives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The broadcast of these shows has caused a huge disturbance for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the area mentioned, and it was necessary for the District Public Prosecutor's Office to react most urgently. Of course, that's not what happened. On June 22nd, I also filed an emergency with the republican public prosecutor Slobodan Jankovic and asked him to force the district attorney's office to do what is required under the law. Unfortunately, here it is now October, the answer is gone, and I will say in the next report what is the consequence of the failure of the state authorities. I would like to ask the president of the National Assembly to forward the parliamentary question to the minister of justice, Mr Petrovic. So, did the County Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranje act on my application and did the republican public prosecutor do anything about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7074	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. The Serbian Radical Party indeed has no objection to DS rule in the municipality of Ruma, but the DS must win the elections in order to have a majority in the Ruma municipality. The power is won and lost in the elections, a basic rule of parliamentary democracy, and the DS rule is not adhered to. Most, which they don't, in fact, have, they've been pinched by buying several councilors, by offering money, permanent employment, etc. to one of the former representatives of the SRS. Minister Milan Markovic brutally violated the Law on Local Self-Government. The minister has no right to give his subjective interpretations of the Law on Local Self-Government. The Minister can only undo individual acts which have not been adopted in accordance with the Law. There's nothing here to undo, this isn't a solution, this isn't a conclusion, this isn't a recommendation. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, how little Djokica interprets the Law on Local Self-Government and this, absolutely, does not oblige anyone. I repeat my parliamentary questions to Minister Markovic. What is the legal nature of this memo he sent us, because this is not a legal act, and on what basis did a member of the Law on Local Self-Government send this memo? Also, I would like to meet the MPs of the people that today the religious and false, the new president of the Assembly of the Municipality and his deputy from the DS, Nenad Bojovic and Milan Smiljanic, violently raided the building of the Assembly of Ruma, robbed the office of the Secretary of the Assembly and tried violently to take away the seal. Thanks to the speedy police intervention, the seal has been returned, but it's only one of the evidence that DS behaves on the ground. All their stories about the EU, about European integration, about democracy, about the rule of law, fall into the water when their actions are looked at, and the works are a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law and a violation of the electoral will of citizens. I have to tell the public next. In the 2004 elections, the SRS in the municipality of Ruma won 20 parliamentary mandates, the DS won 8. That's the result of national will. What is happening today is not the result of national will, but of political trade, which Minister Markovic, contrary to the law, wants to bless.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7076	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi, then Nemanja Sarovic, appeared. Mr. Halimi, both you and the MPs you're having a debate with, you could go on some TV show today to discuss this. It really doesn't make sense for the Parliament to discuss the problems of Preshev, Bujanovac and Bear all morning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7077	I'll only be on this occasion, because a series of lies have just been brought forth, to answer, for the dignity of this house. I don't know what's wrong with Mr. Sarovic today, he doesn't have party discipline, he doesn't have badges, so he probably allows himself the freedom to go out with this kind of arbitraryness in front of the MPs. Let's start in a row. Ridvan Qazimi was mentioned. Ridvan Qazimi was killed in the days when the Land Area Security Relaxation was carried out, under the Demilitarisation Agreement, because it was supposed to last from 24 May to 30 May. He was killed in the first days of relaxation. Ridvan Qazimi was president of a delegation that reached an agreement, along with the international community and representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia. On several occasions, at a school in Luciano, he led an Albanian delegation in direct talks with government representatives, organised by the international community. He was killed in the moments when there was no fight. He was shot with a sniper, from a long distance, in no armed conflict. It takes a long time for the truth to come out. Mr. Sarovic should also advocate that here, and not only here, but in the institutions of the Serbian judiciary, he asked the question of how the Sacipi brothers were killed. They were killed by police on January 26, 2000, returning from work, in a tractor. It's never come out in any judicial authority before. I agree with that, not only on the TV show, but, come on, in any forum to talk to, but on the arguments, not on the tragic fates of people in such a rude way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7078	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7079	Mr. Dulic, I'm truly uncomfortablely surprised by the fact that you have not responded to this exposure to your coalition partner, Riza Halimi. It's unacceptable for anyone from this pay phone to insult the MPs, and he said that someone, thinking of me, was in a rude way discussing it. I didn't insult anyone. I've brought out the facts exclusively. The second thing, Mr Riza Halimi, has brought the most serious charges against the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, against the Serbian Ministry of Interior. Ridvan Qazimi wasn't killed. Murder is, Mr. Halimi, an illegal life-deprivement. This wasn't illegal, it was legal deprivement of life. Therefore, members of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia acted in accordance with the law and liquidated in the fight against a terrorist, members of the so-called. The Preshev Liberation Army, the Bujanovac and the Bear. Look, this time I can say that you may not have understood the reach of your words, you don't know what you've said, but none of the members of the terrorist organizations have been killed, he can only be liquidated. The second thing, Mr. Riza Halimi is obviously cornered by arguments, left the hall at the moment, but I will continue to express the facts about his functioning. Two or three days ago, a declaration was issued, an idea given by Mr. Riza Halimi, claiming that the security and political situation in southern Serbia's municipalities was threatened. Why is she in danger? Because members of the Albanian national minority, who are supporters of Mr Riza Halimi and senior officials, do not respect the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Two months ago, a bomb was dropped in the courtyard of the home of Brother Nagip Arifi, president of the Bujanovac municipality. It's a yard to the yard, a house to the house. What do you think happened? Nothing. It wasn't even reported to the police. Only after more than 20 hours did Nagip Arifi report to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia that a bomb has been dropped at all. Is that, in your opinion, normal behavior? Immediately, as a reaction, a declaration brought again by the councils, members of the Albanian national minority from the two municipalities in southern Serbia, followed. They blamed the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia for the terrorist act and demanded that the military and police withdraw from the municipalities. After a few days, it was discovered...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7080	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7081	... that the executioner of the terrorist act is an Albanian from the village of Končulj, therefore, of the same village where the foothold was in 2001 and 2000 of this terrorist organisation. Perhaps he was one of those who stopped a month ago on the main road of the vehicle and eventually entered the gunfight, and even in the shooting with rocket launchers, with members, first of all, regular police, and then with special police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7082	Mr. Sarovic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7083	Here, I'm done. Mr. Dulic, if I have to come down, then call back, I'll do it, but you're acting very wrong. If you have anything against me, I'll come down, but please...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7084	Come on, get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7085	... to say at the beginning of the day - today I will allow this messenger to speak so much, and this much, so that we know that we are prepared...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7086	Go ahead, finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7087	If you give me 10 minutes, I think you'll allow me, given that I have the same rights as the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7088	All right, Mr. Sarovic, then get off the phone, and come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7089	No problem, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7090	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Verica Radeta, then the MP of the people, Nemanja Sarovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7091	In Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Dulic, states that the President of the National Assembly, and that is you, doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chaired by the National Assembly, took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, took care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, carried out other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. Even in this last one, I can't put what you've just done, when you've referred the MPs to some kind of a TV duel instead of a debate in this House. You have violated a member of this Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic. I don't know what you're nervous about, and I see that, from time to time, you're communicating with the minister. Perhaps the minister has some plans, that he did not plan to sit in the National Assembly today, and especially not this long, and you now have no other way of letting the minister know how sorry you are that he is sitting in the National Assembly, but you are telling the MPs while there is a very serious debate. It is a very serious debate, Mr. Dulic, which no one responsible should interrupt, because it is talking about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, about the rights of Serbs in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, because Mr. Riza Halimi insults the state's organs in the most harsh way, and you don't react all the time. But when Mr. Nemanja Sarovic comes out and fully argued, with certain data, tries to explain, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, not to you, or Rizi Halimi, to the citizens of Serbia, some things, then you show visible anxiety. Mr. Dulic, you're a young man, you're a doctor, if you can't handle this pace, call one of your colleagues who's replacing you, so let them undo you. It is inadmissible, indeed, the behavior you just showed and I expect you to apologize to the MPs for that earlier reaction. I respect that you want the Rules of Procedure to be respected, to take care of the weather, but to take care of what the Members of the People say, that is, you are the one who guides the messengers of the people to what they may, and cannot say, you have no right to do so. You didn't react and you probably won't, when Mr. Ratkovic takes his word back now, because he's reported to the Rules of Procedure. It can, but Nemanja Sarovic can't. It won't be like that, I'm done, because I've been quoting and taking care of the weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7092	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic and then MP Vlatko Ratkovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7093	So, Mr. Dulic, I will repeat that you are obviously protecting your coalition partner from the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, Mr. Rizu Halimi, because he is the only Serb who participates in power - Mr. Novica Manojlovic, the current council member in the Bujanovac municipality, and in the previous term, even, Vice-President of the Bujanovac municipality. What bothers me, Mr. Dulic, is that you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, mostly, a provision that says you represent the National Assembly. So when it is said that you represent the National Assembly, it does not mean that you can express your personal attitudes. You are required to represent those views that are official. So you can plead on those issues that have already been identified. As for the Republic of Serbia, the Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje is a terrorist organisation, so you were obliged to react the moment Mr. Riza Halimi mentioned the terrorist organisation in another context. You were obliged to react when Mr. Riza Halimi said the leader of that terrorist organization Ridvan Qazimi was killed because he wasn't killed. A terrorist can't be killed because murder is against the law of deprivement of life. With Mr. Qazimi, it's a completely different situation. It would be good if Mr. Riza Halimi, since we have seen that he has data on the alleged eviction of Albanians from the municipality of Medvedja, and we have agreed, finally, that the right way to solve this problem is to return the Serbian army and police to Kosovo and Metohija, to bring data on other citizens, i.e. other nationalities and evictions, above all, Serbs from the territory of the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. In Presevo, Serbs are reduced to only a few percent, to one hundred. How do you explain that, Mr. Halimi? Let's see how many Serbs are employed in the Presevo municipal administration? Come on, get the data on the eviction of Serbs from the Bujanovac area and on what conditions Serbs live there. I will be forced, I have a video from one of your rallys, so we can let them see the viewers, in direct transmission, what it sounds like, that democracy of yours, and then try to imagine how Serbs, who are there in the minority, feel, and especially when you and other leaders of your and other Albanian parties from the area and three municipalities are giving these messages, when you point out that these three municipalities should be separated, when you are sending a message that Kosovo should be independent, and many others, when you justify terrorism and say - he was not a terrorist, he was killed two days after you said, the relaxation of the Homeland Security Zone. So, come out, Mr. Rizzo Halimi, for the pay phone, do you respect the state in which you are sitting? Do you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Do you respect state authorities? Is Ridvan Qazimi a hero for you, or is he a terrorist, like for most Serbian citizens? Come out, Mr. Rizzo Halimi, and speak plainly. And, of course, say, for the end, whether, in your opinion, Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7094	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlatko Ratkovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7095	It's true thesis and premise that power is won and lost in the elections, but there is another thesis, that no one has absolute power. So, no political party, when we talk about the situation in So Rum, had absolute power, but made coalitions. That the coalition partners, then, of the Serbian Radical Party, I think, in the first place, of the DSS, left that coalition and made a new majority with DS, with LSV and formed a new majority, that's one fact. I'm going to do a digression, there's something called - obvious truth, some principle of obvious truth. Zoran Zivkovic, when he realized that in 2003, the majority in parliament, the government, did not hold the vote. I can give you an x example. I'll remind you, I hope it doesn't sound pathetic, there's a saying in Celtic mythology -- they're not afraid of anything, except for the sky falling on their heads. Here some behave as if the loss of the congregation's majority represented the cataclysm of planetary proportions. Just one more word. As for the Act of the Ministry, as the secretary of SO Ruma gives scandalous interpretations, catastrophic and dilettant, Mr Lesic, I think it is called that, I will read only the last paragraph of this act which the distinguished colleague called on: "Accommodately exposed, the Ministry indicates that it is necessary that the President of the Assembly of Dr Ljubisa Jezimirovic and Deputy President of the Assembly Stevan Kovacevic, as well as all authorities and services of the municipality of Ruma, without any further delay, enables Nenad Borović, the newly elected president of So Ruma, and Milan Smiljanić, the newly elected deputy president of the Assembly, to take over and then take over his post, in accordance with the law, statute and the Rules of Procedure". I thank you, and I will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7096	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7097	Let me just say, I checked in 40 minutes ago, but the president said we should stop the debate and then I thought I'd say nothing, but since everyone continued, then I have to say a few things, too. They refer to Presevo and Bujanovac. I expected anyone, whether from the SRS or Mr. Reese Halimi, or anyone else, to remember that several thousand Roma lived in Bujanovac. Then I apologize. It would be good that, regardless of what political parties are in power, they comply with the latest law that we have adopted, that national structures be represented in state bodies, proportionate relations in certain municipalities. If that were the case, then it wouldn't have happened if we were to go back to the Salvatore settlement, where several hundred Roma families live, some politicians say we'd be able to get them back to Kosovo, and they're in no way thinking that these people, who live in extremely inappropriate conditions, are allowed to live as normal a life as possible, that there are no basic conditions for these children rats to eat their ears, that children in that village, in Bujanovac, under tents, have no basic conditions for life. Not much to worry about, not even local government, so not even some other level of government. So it would be good to discuss in these high debates, whether some political officials will be highly positioned, a little talk about how ordinary people live there, and how we all advocate to create normal conditions for their lives, to be legitimate when we talk about democracy in political life, rather than how we're going to defend our political elites, who are competing. How will it be for those ordinary people, whether they are Serbs, Albanians, Roma or some third, in Presevo and Bujanovac, we are not interested. Now I'm gonna get it over with, so I don't overstep for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7098	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7099	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the absence of arguments, can be called to help both Celtic and anyone's mythology, and I will call not on mythology and myths, but on the Law of Local Self-Government. Article 111 The Law on Local Self-Government, which is the only legal basis on which the Minister can act - if he finds that an individual act of the Authority, or the Service of the Unit of Local Self-Government, against whom no protection is provided in the administrative dispute is not in agreement with the law or other regulation, or with a decision or other general act of the unit of local self-government, the Ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government, or the competent authority of territorial autonomy, will propose to the Assembly of the Unit of Local Self-Government that such an act be abolished. If the assembly does not act within a month, the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government shall terminate or repeal the act referred to in Article 1(1). This isn't about that, obviously. As you can see for yourself, this is a letter that is not a legal act and does not even call on an appropriate member of the Law on Local Self-Government, nor does there be a name for this letter. So it doesn't say, "Decision," or "Finishment," or "recommendation," or "command," or anything like that, it's just So Rum and nothing else. Furthermore, the Minister's personal, subjective interpretation of the Law on Local Self-Government. I repeat once again, as a man who accepts democratic ideology, even though I am not a member of the DS, I have no objection to the DS exercise power in the municipality of Rum. But they have to go to the polls and have citizens in those elections give them confidence. What makes DS in Ruma today, it's a mix of everything and everything. There are also original Democrats, and those from the G17 plus, and from the Serbian Movement, there are even former members of the SRS. I can't understand that a serious man can be a member of the SRS today and become a member of the DS next day. Absolutely, something like that isn't possible. Today, such as in the municipality of Ruma, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, gives political legitimacy. The three representatives of the SRS resigned by their will to the parliamentary mandates. The resignations were taken in a legal manner, at So Ruma's office, and they got their numbers. The resignations were signed by hand. The president of the assembly found the end of the term of office and Minister Milan Markovic himself said in this letter -- it is undeniable that he is at the 28th session, etc. The committees were cut off by the mandate of the So Rum board, and only two sentences later said - in this state of affairs, it is clear that there are no conditions for the termination of the board's term of office. So, the minister jumps into his own mouth. He tries to, in violation of the Law on Local Self-Government, literally, by force of God, the Democratic Party in SO Ruma created a majority, although they do not have a majority there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7100	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7101	I'm done, Mr. Dulic. Here, Mr. Dulic, just to point out that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are misbehaving inconsistencies when it comes to elections for the mayor of Belgrade. That actually applies to you. Article 42. The Law on Local Self-Government - the President of the National Assembly is calling, within 15 days of the day of the end of the term of office of the president of the municipality, or mayor, the elections for the president of the municipality, or mayor, if there is no less than six months left. The mayoral elections for Belgrade were held, if I am not mistaken, in September 2004. The term of office shall be four years. So the mayor's term ends not in October 2007, but in September 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7102	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7103	So there are more than six months left and the authorities, if they want to respect the Law on Local Self-Government, should call the mayor's election, but they don't want it because they fear the victory of the SRS candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7104	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Mr Damjanovic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7105	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I see and listen, there are many benefactors when it comes to the Roma community and aiding in a humanitarian way. It is certain that the Roma are part of this community and that they need all structures, from municipal to republican, to do everything and to contribute to the citizens of Roma living as all other citizens in this country. I just want to mention something about the Bujanovian, and nobody here mentions it, everyone's talking about something they've been doing, but it can't be forgotten. Right in "Salvatore," where the Roma lived in the middle of winter, when there was snow, when there was a kijamet, when it was minus 15 degrees, we were leaving, members of the SRS, we allowed 40 tonnes of humanitarian aid, we brought a team of doctors to examine the displaced and exiled Roma from Kosovo. We asked SO to build their sanitary knots, bathrooms, because they don't have hot and cold water. Also, I'd like to mention that in Kursumlia, a Roma woman was born under a bridge. Nobody knows that, but we Serbian radicals do. She was born under the bridge and we went there and immediately did everything we had to do, hospitalized her, she's in the hospital, and we helped a lot of Roma there. I also want to tell you that there were 150 families in Kursumli who had been given accommodation outside of Kursumli, near Kragujevac. The Serbian Radical Party and I, as its minister and as a member, have done much for not only the Roma, but also our people. The SRS and I, like Roma, are for one nation, we are for all citizens in our country to seem to be progressing, to be a better life, to be a better future. I also want to tell you that in Bujanovac we have allocated funds and a charity concert. All the money from that concert, the commission took it to Bujanovac and left it in a couple of shops, to have Roma and other displaced children, who are not Roma, to have bread and milk. Also, I want to say that the SRS, not only there, but across Serbia, makes a great contribution to the better life of the Roma population, in all Serbian cities. I want to tell you that when we came to power in Surdulica, the asphalt was where it was, and where the Roma were, there was no asphalt. We promised our voters and citizens that if we won, we'd set up an asphalt. We set up the asphalt.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7106	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7107	I'm done. In Masurica near Surdulica, over 60 years there was no infrastructure, sewerage and plumbing. We've run the sewers and the plumbing, and now we need to pave the way. Latestly, yesterday I was in Novi Sad and I was invited to finish, Mr. President, by the Roma political party who wants to vote for the SRS. We built them there a home of culture, a pharmacy, paved the streets, and they're too pleased. I don't have time to quote what we've done elsewhere, I know about God, I know about other places, there's been no asphalt for 130 years; we've done it. The people of Vojvodina know what they've done to the entire Vojvodina Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7108	The word has the People's MP Jorvanka Tabaković, and let Zdravko Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7109	Dear fellow citizens, before I move on to the debate, I must say in one sentence the following. My fourth term was, I spent a lot of time in this assembly hall, but I did not experience what we experienced yesterday from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as the chairman of the vice president, who raised a tone inappropriately, inappropriately to the MPs and to this home. I'd really like it not to happen again. One more thing that astounded me and made me explain what the SRS MPs were saying yesterday was the terminology used by the minister by addressing the MPs, wanting to bring down the discussion. Everyone chooses words and how they will turn, but it is unacceptable to tell the MPs that they are in error and that they do not understand the matter they were discussing. Some citizens estimate that the SRS has expressed its principled view that, as the minister said, it is a matter of privatising insurance companies and conditions for that privatisation. That's all we talked about. We understand each other perfectly, Mr. Minister, we from the SRS and you who, on behalf of the Government, represent this law, and that you're trying to convince someone that we didn't understand each other, comes down to the following. Privatisation of the financial sector, parts of insurance, differs the government and the SRS in the following: the government proposes to privatise 70% of social capital, and the SRS says - should privatise 49%, as the state should remain a significant factor in this strategic branch, a branch that is important for further development of the capital market. And in that privatisation, we're different. So we differ in the percentage of privatisation, and in the way. You say you need to bring strategic partners to develop services, and we say, come out with a public offering in which citizens who have money will be able to buy some values, buy actions of insurance companies, which will only grow, whose value on the stock market will only grow, and in institutional funds. Allow them to buy, but maintain the right of the state to decide on these strategic actions, as it does, for example. The Slovenian state of its insurance company called Triglav, where the highest premiums are paid. The country with the highest personal income allows the premium to be the largest per capita. Why is that possible? You have a state-owned company that was similar three years ago to DDOR, which has mixed participation, has foreign owners in it, so this company, which in state participation by 25m euros, has made a higher payment of premiums. So ownership structure is not the reason for failure or success. The state must not give up its role in this area. What I want the citizens to hear, I will repeat twice: the adjustment of the insurance market conditions comes down, Mr. Minister, to the fact that the people in Serbia should have a job, to receive a salary, so that they can pay the premium of life insurance, which is based on the development of the insurance market. What else does the insurance market need? New buildings? Well, we've got them everywhere, they look beautiful. New structure? Like what? New favors? You will also one day suggest that these MPs, elected by the people of Serbia, be replaced by some foreigners, who, by your court, which has not been founded, are allegedly doing better. That's what we're different about. We gave you the right that the statute should not be a condition when establishing a new society, because it is a legal person who is yet to live. All right, you don't have to. It is necessary to bring the existing law in line with the Business Society Act concerning restrictions on members of the Management Board. And that's okay. It's technical stuff. But you can't ask, by amendment, that those who enforce this law, who are employed in the National Bank, are not responsible for the damage they cause to others, unless the ultimate negligence or intent is proved. We asked to delete it, as we asked for this percentage to be regulated. I repeat, it's about privatisation and we differ in principle, we as an SRS, and you as a government. You have on the insurance market: Generals, UNIKA, Slovenia's Triglav and Sava. One of the insurances in the majority state-owned managed to raise premiums. So there's no other word. Do not lie to people that it is necessary for a strategic partner to enter to develop the insurance services market. It takes people to have a job, to get paid, and to get paid, three times I'm going to repeat for those who can't remember, not to let people go, but to make money and to develop the insurance market. What you will not like at all and what is an amendment to this law, it is a commission in the privatisation process. It was very consciously created in public delusions, from 2001 to today, that no one knows who is taking compensation for success in the privatisation process. I'm not talking about privatisation costs, I'm not talking about public ad, I'm talking about prospectus, I'm not talking about the value of capital, I'm not talking about financial advisors, who are very unusually chosen, who have repeatedly shown that their work is not doing what the law requires, but rather, I'm not talking about what the law has regulated, I'm talking about what first appeared in that famous international agreement, where the intended fee for success, meaning, not the cost, should have been given to an agent of sales, and this agent could have been, literally I'm reading to you what it says: "The agency will hire consultants, financial and investment, and other qualified sales agents, who will assist the ministry or agency." Nobody's talking about it yesterday. I'll repeat the numbers, which is interesting. The minister, by the way, told us -- they're no middlemen, that percentage is taken by the Privatisation Agency. So, 5% of the privatisation success prize is being held by the Privatisation Agency. In 2006, during the budget debate, I presented a figure. At 3.2 billion privatised values, the figure is 160m euros. One hundred and sixty million euros has been retained, I hold to the word of Mr. Minister, and I will get an answer to the question, the Privatisation Agency. One hundred and sixty million euros! Eight Sartidas! How many children's supplements, pensions, I don't want to mention, not to say it's demagogy. The privatisation agency, which makes up for all costs, which the law defines as funding, which has 250 employees in the last year, received, according to the regulation published in Official Messenger number 49, signed by Mr. Bubalo, where he consciously does not mention who the commission goes to, so the word "Agency" is skipped. That's why I asked who got it? You said the Agency. Now I'm saying, does the government, the tender committee, because the government has a decisive involvement, even though it only gave money to set up this agency, who controls the spending of 160 million? The money does not go into the budget, cannot be controlled and supervised by the Serbian Parliaments, only the Ministry of Privatisation processes can. Mr. Cvetkovic knew the answer to that question, because on 19 November 2003, as director of the Privatisation Agency, it means, the most competent, well-known man, that's the one who calls us people in error and that we don't understand ourselves in matter, said that of the privatised 1.2 billion enterprises, meaning, by 19 November 2003, the remaining 60m euros. So I'm doing the math precisely, keeping in mind the Regulation, I'm not building, I'm sticking to facts and legal texts, and based on them, the Agency has had 60m euros. What kind of privatisation is that, dear citizens? What is this privatisation in which the Privatisation Agency, which operates as a public service, but outside the eyes and insight of the Assembly and the people, without the obligation to disclose and these costs and these rewards, spends a hard-earned fortune? Who in this case, we have amendedly reacted, kept the commission, whether it will now be the Deposit Insurance Agency, or this same Privatisation Agency, whose head you were at, when the minister was Mr. Vlahovic, we are not left to assume. We are left to fight, not to allow you to destroy the financial sector, a piece called insurance, bring foreign owners and take a commission. When I say you take, as a man, until yesterday, at the head of the Agency, you who voted to adopt such conditions, that's the constitution that I say you stick to as the only legal text, from which you do not stand down, you have to give an answer here, and we try to challenge you to do so. Please, have enough professional honors and don't hide behind the minister's power, answer with arguments and logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7110	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7111	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, here are the amendments to the Insurance Act, allowing foreign insurance companies to open, as you have stated, branches in Serbia. I have to admit that to me, and to many people in the profession, it's not a clear term of the branch and what it means. You're repeating a mistake like the so-called mistake. reconstruction of the financial system of banks, only now with insurance companies. The foreign insurance companies, which open branches in Serbia, simply have a minimal financial risk of operating in Serbia. What's this about? They don't have any property here, just some, apparently, deposited. Does this mean that, eventually, one day, in the case of their economic activities, there will be a risk, normally, of their liquidation, and that all those who have had premiums of their insurance will be compensated or not? My esteemed colleague, Jorgenka Tabaković, mentioned an example of Slovenia. I will give you an example of Austria, Mr. Minister, a country that is also considered a country that has dealt extremely well with the problem of insurance companies. Why not oblige insurance companies to set up a percentage of insurance premiums for infrastructure development in Serbia? In particular, in Austria, all insurance companies that are present here and now, such as "Viner", "Gravea", "UNICE", I don't know who else isn't, has a mandatory percentage of the withdrawal from the insurance premium in Austria's infrastructure. So when you go through Austria, you see that everything about infrastructure is perfectly arranged. Again, one of your explanations, like all others, begins with CEFTE and of all those declarations that are very unfavourable, that you agree this law with the World Trade Organization, specifically, with their regulations. It's amazing how much you're in such a hurry to join the European Union and so on. Euro-Atlantic integration, yes, in this respect, application of Art. 1st and 2nd, you delay for the next five years, entering the World Trade Organization. In Article 10, it is interesting that you are currently narrowing down the number of natural persons who can handle insurance representatives' jobs, at a time of general unemployment, which is 26.6% in Serbia. Let me get this straight. You mention - to prevent multilevel, operating on the principle of multilevel. Well, if insurance companies have a single policy on the market, so they write fees to the MPs, and these representatives hire as many people as they can to make insurance contracts, I don't see that that's a bad thing. So that won't increase the price of the premium. The second thing, mentioned by my esteemed colleague, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, is amazing that persons who conduct surveillance in the area of insurance in the National Bank of Serbia are not responsible. Well, imagine, in their hands is the fate of some insurance company, millions of euros, not to say, employees of these companies and their families. It's just amazing. It is unacceptable to predict that 70% of social capital is privatised by foreign investors. As an SRS, we are always principled that this percentage cannot be greater than 49 percent, that the state must retain 51 percent of the share of capital. Finally, in Article 21, you did not know what cost of selling social capital was, we could never find out. You're introducing the concept of compensation, that is, commissions prescribed by the finance minister. Mr. Cvetkovic, wasn't there enough commission for you to privatise Sartida and many other privatized companies while you were the director of the Privatisation Agency, but are also introducing commissions in this area?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7112	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the chairman, I apologize for interrupting the discussion, and I reported in accordance with Article 225. Namely, my morning exposure to violence in a relationship and marriage also got its reaction. Today, in the first journal of RTS and other televisions, the director of National Television, Mr. Tijanic, reacted to what I said this morning. I apologize for interrupting the discussion, but I think it is very important that as representatives of the citizens you hear what Mr. Tijanic said and that we comment on it a little bit. RTS director Aleksandar Tijanic says the show '48h wedding', in which the groom admits that sometimes slaps a young, remarkable socio-psychological analysis. Now I ask the question, I expect Mr. Tijanic to respond again, who felt this was invited and trained to make a socio-psychological analysis, whether the journalist who was the show rules, or perhaps Mr. Tijanic? What is very important to stress is that this marriage is concluded and that this show is recorded by the money of Serbian citizens, or that we have unwittingly funded something that is likely to later be domestic violence. What is also very important and what I want to comment on is that Tijanic said that what the MP of the Liberal Democratic Party said was false and estimated to be an abuse of the assembly pay phone. "The allegations of Milena Stankovic are part of a hickey in which LDP, part of the radicals and part of the Socialists have been terrorising the public and the assembly's pay phone for days, are used to convict political and other public opponents. ''What I have to ask as a question is, when an MP in his state's parliament in the Republic of Serbia asks the question of domestic violence, is that a political heifer? What does violence and domestic violence have to do with politics? What I would also like to say is that Mr. Tijanic has defined himself as a political opponent here. He's the director of the National Service, and he shouldn't be a political person, and he is. The LDP clearly targets him as its opponent and clearly speaks about what Mr Tijanic is doing and what he is turning the National Service into. His reactions are confirmation of everything we've been saying all along, that it's not the service of citizens, that this national service is not working in the interests of citizens, that it's the service of political parties, which he really is. And, uh, just two more sentences. What Mr. Tijanic has responded is a confirmation of how important and necessary it is, the congregation transfers, because neither I nor any of you would have been able to ask this question in any other place without having this many echoes. No press conference, no street action, nothing would cause a public reaction. I expect everything that has happened to this speaker to be commented on by all MPs, and I especially expect that from colleagues and colleagues from DS and G17, as they are presented as serious women's rights activists, to come out and protest clearly and loudly against what happened. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7114	I thank you for your business, my colleague, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7115	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've reported in connection with the violation of Article 225, or in relation to Article 226. What happened today at the assembly pay phone was no provocation. It's simple, and the previous colleague listed the reasons why she had to say it. In a conversation with most fellow Members of Parliament and MPs in the assembly and in the halls, all agreed that yesterday’s public service was broadcast, indeed, unspeakable. Mr. Tijanic, director of the Public Service, found it appropriate to react immediately, but in a way that actually showed his true face. He experienced opposition MPs as his political opponents. Weeks ago, the Director of the Public Service assured us that he was the Director of the Public Service, but today he showed his true face. This is the person who was also the minister of the government of Mirko Marjanovic, and this is the man who, along with Miroslav Miskovic, runs the Media Group, namely certain media that have recently satanized everything that is fighting for modern Serbia. Secondly, more importantly, there are orders from the same Miskovic to run a closure campaign, or ban the transfer of assembly sessions. He gave himself the right a few days ago to comment on the MPs and the work of the messengers, and he did so today. I have to tell the one who was elected by Miskovic and Kostunica that we were elected by citizens, and we were elected by citizens to be MPs. The MPs have certain obligations and certain rights. From this Rules of Procedure, which we're working on, we draw the right to report whenever we think we should react to something or let the public know about something. We've used it multiple times, we've used it now and, I repeat, it's members of 225 and 226. We really think it is a shame to put up with, as MPs, a heifer who leads us from a centre, a centre managed by Miskovic and Kostunica, whose lead performer is Aleksandar Tijanic and his public service. They are trying to portray us as unemployed, and I think Serbia today has had the opportunity to see the true face of the Director of Public Service, Mr Tijanic. I ask the other MPs to respond in a way that is appropriate. This is not an obstruction of Parliament's work, but this is a struggle for the Parliament itself and for, in the extreme line, MPs who voiced against the violence that was broadcast yesterday at the Public Service of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7116	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague named Rangelovic appeared, and then Zarko Obradovic, then Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, too. 225 and 226, and for the scandalous reaction of Mr Tijanic, director of the Public Service. Which is because of the lack of time, which due to its modesty, my colleague, Mrs Milena Stankovic, did not read one reaction from citizens who arrived by email. I'll give her my time, and I'll add. It says in the letter, "Dear Miss Stankovic," probably a citizen or citizen doesn't know that Mrs Stankovic is a lady, "I'm not a fan of your party, but your reaction to scandalous parts of the mentioned show has deeply touched me and made me think that in a tunnel called Serbia, all the lights are still out and that there is still someone who, in this way, bravely, can stand up to the generality that is more and more of a rule of conduct in Serbia." Mr. Tianic, is this the citizens' reaction, not lonely and not the only one, abuse of the assembly pay phone? As MPs and as representatives of citizens, those to whom the citizens have given the mandate, and to remind, citizens are electoral bearers and owners of our mandates and they have reacted to your reactions and to what you have done for the justified protest of our colleague Milena Stankovic, we can only ask you - are you ashamed of your reactions and this kind of attitude towards the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian political public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7118	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225, 226. I would like, as well as my previous fellow Members of the People's Parliament, although we are from different parliamentary groups, to express the diametrically opposite political views, to protest in the name of the SPS against this kind of behaviour of a man who is headed by an institution called the Public Service, because he is not. He is not the public service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he has become the public service of the group of people in Serbia's Radio-Television. I'm fully convinced that's the case, and I can prove it on a bright set of examples. I'm not surprised at the way the public service works, but I'm surprised by the behavior of these people that they can say it in public. Here, I openly urge Mr Tijanic, who said this, to say what part of the Socialists, besides other colleagues, has been terrorizing the public for days. Let him say that, that and that, if any of what we've been saying is not meaningful, if there is anything that is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. And I tell you again, on the other hand, they terrorise the public and execute very partial and who knows whose interests. Here, I'll take an example. The eighth session of the CK SK Serbia, marking 20 years since the session. You have live participants and you have continuations of these ideas, no matter which political option they belong to. The public service schedules the show and the call Mr. Popov, who has nothing to do with it, the call journalist "Time", we know what he thinks about the idea of the left, and the call historian who has his own court. A guest on the show, former president of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, Zarko Puhovski of Zagreb, is due to assess this. If you wanted objective information, there are living witnesses, no matter who they belong to, so let them say what they want. In those days, you know, fellow MPs, several scientific gatherings were made. One was made by socialists, the other by the Contemporary Institute of History, the third by some others, so there were many very relevant participants who could say that, but, they say, editorial policy is like that. Well, let Tijanic deal with editorial policy, so let him say whether Serbia needs such an editorial policy and whether it is a public service. No offense. I cited one example, not to mention that during the past period guests of these shows were people who spoke about congregation issues without being politically represented in this congregation. On congregation issues, not on topics that have other meanings. It is a shame to be led against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is, in essence, a hickey against certain parliamentary groups, with the claim that they are terrorising the public. Let the Public Service say what this terror is about, and let's find out, because we are fully convinced that we are doing one job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that we are only benefiting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7120	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Arsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been mentioned in public for a long time that the Serbian Parliament should pass a new traffic law and that most traffic accidents are by drivers, who often drive at an unadjusted speed. Today, on the M-24 road, three kilometers from the Ljubic bridge, on the direction of Povorec towards Belgrade, about 10 hours, two dark-colored vehicles, with darkened glass, with lit rotational lights, without any prior notice, crossed over to my side of August that I was moving, threatened my safety, so I had to stop the vehicle by the road, not to say, to keep my head alive. This isn't the first time something like this has happened to me. Something similar happened to me when it was that game of Queens Park Rangers, when two vehicles, the same, dark colors, Bosnian plates, I guess from Republika Srpska, and one dark-colored vehicle, the Belgrade plates, I guess the people who were in this last vehicle from here, were also acting, so all the participants who got in their way or pushed off the highway, or cut them off. I've been moving around behind cars like that and, watch out, look at the wonders. This was only happening to vehicles that were on Serbian plates; if the vehicle was side tables, it continued to move normally. I ask the question, who is it that has the right to endanger the lives of Serbian citizens or any other life and for what? I suppose it's, in this second case, about Milorad Dodik, who was on a private visit, so he watched the Queens Park Rangers game and on his way back, probably on his way back, harassing and jeopardizing Serbian citizens. That gentleman, if he wants to watch games, either he can come by helicopter, or he can act in traffic like any other participant. As far as this second case is concerned, I'm guessing it's Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who's on his way to Žaguvica to open the market, i.e. Three gigs, and he was probably late. Now, to make up for that time, he was chasing, it doesn't matter what happens to other people, it's important that the minister arrives on time, like it's 10 or 15 minutes, or all the time in this world he has, more valuable than human life. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I ask a parliamentary question - firstly, to which authority do these vehicles belong, does the BIA, does the Public Security, do the Joint Affairs Administration, then, which direct manager ordered drivers to act like this in traffic? It should be clear to the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to everyone else that this practice should stop. Isn't it enough that your girlfriend died when Dragan Vesenov was in the car, didn't you have enough cases with Tadic's security and cobras, who first provoked the driver, then cut him off? You made an affair to be one dog, one dog, a specially trained killer. Stop using your boastful behavior to endanger the lives, health and property of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7122	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Marash, half the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7123	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will really come to you last time today, when it comes to this topic, that is, the gentleman who is the director of Serbia's Public Service. I just want to draw attention to one thing. No wonder this show, with the content that was broadcast yesterday, was released, for the simple reason that Mr. Tijanic repeatedly expressed himself in a very primitive way about women. I don't think that from this assembly pay phone, in the end line, the public doesn't have to listen to all the proscrations he's been saying about them. I'll only read one part of what he said about women. It was published in "The Daily Telegraph", in 1998, the text "Are Men So Bad", which he wrote about women like this: "A woman should look like a charplanese, with an innate coat, large, trained, with a necklace around her neck, and only bark when someone else else comes near her." So that's what Mr. Tianic thinks of women. It's only one part of his post, in which he tries in every way possible to insult those he spoke of today, meaning his political opponents. There's a woman he spoke very highly of, that's Mrs. Mira Markovic, and I'll read you what he said about "Interview", November 15, 1996. This is how he characterized Mrs Mira Markovic: "I must tell you that in these areas she acts as an evangelist of hope and tolerance". So there are different criteria. But so far we have found that in only one case he praised one woman, this is Mrs. Mira Markovic, for everyone else, he thinks they should be like the Charplans. We will no longer abuse this subject, or we will no longer, as he would say, terrorise the Assembly, let it go its course, but we had to bring some things out and make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that the Public Service, which it stands for, or which it says is a public service, is not, that it is just a kind of political struggle, in which it has pointed out clearly to whose side it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7124	Thank you, colleague Marash. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, Dr. Snezana Plassic-Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7125	Good, that's because in party G 17 plus women are in high places, so it's not easy to remember all their names. I am Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, and I am not a doctor, but a psychologist, and my colleague, the head of the Parliament Group, is Susana Grubjesic. I went out because the G 17 plus party was mentioned on the subject. The views of the G 17 Plus Party on the protection of women's rights and gender equality are quite clear. Of course we support everything that counterpart Milena said today and, of course, we believe that the Public Service, by its example, should show the attitude towards women in Serbia. It is totally unacceptable to promote any kind of violence. Yesterday I had a press conference, a party I spoke to. Yesterday, for your information and information from citizens and citizens of Serbia, it was non-violence day, and I dedicated the entire press conference to issues of violence. Unfortunately, it has not received any echo in the media, because these are not classic political issues that are of interest to our public. Repeat, I did not think it necessary for the assembly speaker to say, that party G 17 plus advocates against all types of violence, against domestic violence, against violence against children, against peer violence, against violence on the streets, which, unfortunately, has been escalating lately, and against particularly organised groups that promote violent and intolerant behaviour. The G 17 Plus Party, as a civil party, advocates individual rights and freedoms and, in that context, the full freedom of women and all others. How does party G 17 plus advocate the question of women? She shows, not only in her public appearances, but she shows...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7126	Time, Mrs Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7127	... on the part and on its own example. I will remind you that we are the only party, the first party to introduce 30% of women to Parliament, both in the past and in this assembly, although it was not a legal obligation, and that we are a party that has 50% of women ministers in the executive government. So in all positions in party G 17 plus, women are in the highest places and that's how we show what our attitude towards women is -- in action, not just in words. Of course, we are always there to support the participation of women in public life in words and in part, because we believe that this is one way for women and in Serbian society to get much better positions than they do right now. So we condemn every kind of violence, domestic violence, violence against women, and we advocate women's greater participation in Serbia's public life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7128	I thank the MPs, Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Elena Christmas-Talian, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7129	I was going to say that the SRS, of course, advocates fundamental values, which is gender equality. Also, it condemns every kind of violence. What the Director of Public Service, Mr. Tijanic, did, his reaction is inadmissible. He went into political action, forgot that he was the director of the Public Service, that he was not a politician. Today we have a session of the Committee on Gender Equality. My proposal will be that he be relieved of his duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7130	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. The remaining time for the SRS parliamentary group is 14 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have finally come to order. In fact, yesterday, we had to finish the debate in the law principle, and then the minister, wanting to give the final word before the final word, came out in order to ease up, try to force Serbian citizens to forget what was said and about this minister, and about this law, and about the government, and about all the other laws that have been passed so far, and about this topic. This has caused a whole series of reports of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and replicas, which are going on until now. I will try to return the discussion to the beginning, to the causes of which are horrifying, destructive and inconceivable consequences of what is happening today in Serbia and, roughly, brings to an end. The rest is to privatise EPS, NIS, insurance companies, and then someone can lower the curtain and turn off the light at this "Balkan pub". Let me remind you, it all started on October 1st or 2nd, when the chiefs of the Dossmanian Bulldozer revolution had already gone to the mouth alone when they thought where all the money was. After the Bulldozer Revolution, I remind you and the citizens of Serbia of those crisis headquarters that flew right into those companies where there were cash and banks, someone with a sock on their heads, someone without a sock, but mostly with guns and, possibly, if they couldn't get their hands on guns, because one of the leaders of the Bulldozer Revolution didn't share a truck of rifles that was in the circle of a factory whose manager, then they came with short tubes, but they always came where there was money. I remind you of a group of criminals, led by Zabunovic, a certain one, who entered Customs, first got hold of the cash register, blocked it. It seems to me that Zabunovic was later arrested for other criminal acts. To remind the citizens of Serbia and that one, with a sock on his head, with a kalashnikov, flew into the National Bank and immediately grabbed the vault and I don't think he's arrested yet. I think that the citizens of Serbia have already remembered him, if not by that, what he is doing in destroying all financial institutions. First, four banks that had stakes were destroyed, precisely, in those companies and were giving loans to survive those companies that were subsequently privatised. I remind you of Sartid, the loans he had at Beobanka, or at the Belgrade Bank, at the Jugobanka, all four banks. Then they remembered that they could sell these companies without selling them with a burden -- kill the trustee, and the debtor is no longer in debt. I remind Serbian citizens that the "Belgrade Bank", and after all that was done by that financial mafia, was depicted in the governors, ministers, assistants, deputies, etc., could function normally on the market, only to allow it to work. The total capital of these banks has been robbed. I remind the citizens of Serbia of a small matter, which could not possibly have been a small matter, is banking business. When you mistake the number of the giro-account and you pay 100, 200 dinars, some tax, that payment goes to a special account, because there's nowhere to transfer. The incredible crowds of these couples were nowhere to be recorded when the banks were destroyed. Where's the money? To remind Serbian citizens that the fact was that some four billion dollars were in Cyprus, so Minister Velja Ilic went, found them, and they were there; he went, before he was clouded by some nebula aspects, found them and stayed there; Vladan Batic, as justice minister, went, found them and the others there. Then there goes one who finds them, but they're no longer there, they're gone, they're gone to various exotic islands, Caymans, Seseljska, Devicanska and other islands, at the expense of some small and other collectives, so these are now buying all this in Serbia. To remind citizens of Serbia, when a part of Belgrade-Novi Sad highway was to be built, an Austrian firm appeared, and it got the company's job in the tender, and then it turned out that some grandparents were owners of the company and that the company had only a seal; the grandmother had a purse to hold a seal in it, and the company was registered at a train station in Austria. It's precisely the causes of these terrible consequences that we now have. Before I move on to this part, let me ask you a question. Some of my friends worked in an insurance company called Dunav-Re. So it's resecure. When you secure, and as an insurance company, you are unable to cover the damage with your capital, then you transfer some of the insurance to the resecuritisation houses. So was our Dunav-Re, and this Dunav-Re, at the time, was paying huge damage, say, to the Serbian glass factory in Paracina, when there was a tunnel stove, because a tunnel furnace for melting glass cannot be fixed, it must collapse and wall again. That was also the case when that ha right there in Sartida, today's Ju-Es-style, which you sold for $26 million, and someone took a fat capital, I think, or a fat commission, and I think it's called Kolesar. It is these Kolesari, Janjusevići and others who carried privatisation jobs in Serbia, and to remind Serbian citizens that Kolesar was paid, or paid, not in cash, but through an account, for the privatisation of the cement factory in Popovac -- several hundred million dollars, I think. As far as it was, by the system -- the hand of the hand washes, you just don't know it. I remind Serbian citizens that first it was said that he had been given by his father, and then his aunt, and then his uncle, and then his entire family closer and further, and when it was discovered that he had stolen the money, Janjusevic, gave him a great friend. It's the one that sold "Belgrade Shipyard", so it's just a bridge crane, which can lift an entire ship and transfer it to the dock, cost more than the entire property, with a few dozen hectares of wages in New Belgrade. To move on, domestic banks have been destroyed. You've brought foreign banks, which offer loans at triple the interest rate, consumer loans to Serbian citizens, and by system -- you come in, you come out and you're done. Every bank is looking for an asset guarantee. So, you want a loan, you can, you put a mortgage on the apartment, you get a loan, so people, they're fooled, they're buying cars, they're buying what they don't need, they're raising loans and they're coming into an incredible situation -- that for a few thousand euros, they're being evicted, right, by the owners of that bank from the apartments that they've bloody acquired. I remind you that there were also some domestic banks called national savings banks, because when the National Savings Bank was formed, we all thought, since it's prefixed - national, it's a state bank. After all, the man behind the formation of the National Savings Authority guaranteed it to be a state institution. It turns out, after that, that it was a private bank, that the money for the establishment of that bank was from the Euroaxis Bank of Russia, and that the money at Euroaxis Bank was the foreign reserve of the Serbian state that was being held there. So--no onions ate, no onions smelled, a man came to the bank's property. After forming a bank, and there is not enough space for the bank, as a young, perspective, to wave, it chokes the SDK, i.e. the Payment Transport Service and 7,200 square squares of business space across Serbia to "National Savings". To make that initial capital a little stronger, Governor, or he was a minister at the time, I don't remember, giving that young, summer National Savingsman the right to pay off the so-called old foreign currency savings to the citizens. If a bunch of money and dust falls off, it's a pile of dust again. Since we have destroyed these financial institutions, since we have brought built Serbia into a situation that many will be left without a roof over their heads, since we have introduced foreign banks, what now? More specifically, it's not foreign banks at all, because yesterday is one MP, I can't remember who, saying that if you go with some credit card from that bank that's in our bank headquarters to raise your money, you won't be able to do it, not even the Raiffeisen Bank, or the other banks, because it's some independent, self-involved units, which, of all things, have the name and name of those banks. What's going on now? Since there are still these insurance companies left, there are two large insurance houses, the DDOR and the Danube, and they should be choked and allowed by foreign insurance companies to enter here. As much as the conditions will be even, we'll see, but foreign insurance companies will come here and will not provide the property of businesses, it's not worth it. Personal insurance is the kind of insurance that makes the most money, and they didn't come here to secure, so, in the event of any damage, accidents, etc., compensation for the damage. They will come, as the banks have come, to suck the capital out of here and take it out without any control, because neither this law nor all the laws we have passed so far guarantee any control over the exit of capital, on the contrary. Yesterday we heard from a top expert in this area, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, that the annual inflow... I'm sorry, just a few more words and I'll be done. I think what I'm about to say will force the minister to withdraw this law from the procedure. ... So over half a billion euros, for which both insurance companies are sold. I only have two more words to say about this bill. What's got eyes, that's the 15th. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law, which states: 'After Article 180, Subsection 4.10 is added, with Article 180a, which reads: 'Responsibility for damages incurred in the exercise of the duties laid down by this law, the National Bank of Serbia and the employees of the NBS, as well as a person acting under the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, shall not be liable for the damage suffered by the exercise of that duty unless it is demonstrated that the damage is done on purpose or ultimately indifference. "Gentleman, Article 15 of this bill, or Article 180a. The basic law, we abolize all those who work at the National Bank for all jobs, no matter how dirty they are, because they won't be responsible. Chuck, this member is told he won't be responsible the next day, when his job stops, when he stops working, and when he stops doing this job. Full protection. Well, it won't work. Mr. Minister, I already see that following the next parliamentary elections, many parties will be able to hold a presidential college of parties in one place in Zabela or possibly in Central Prison. I can see that the good part of the government will be there and they'll be able to hold a session there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7132	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask, do the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right in accordance with Article 93? The word is from a colleague, Rajko Baralić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7133	Thank you, Mr. Judjevich. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not use the time at my disposal just to repeat the SPS's views on the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. We can't support this law because it doesn't suit our understanding of privatisation and the degree of privatisation in systems like insurance and banks. So we believe that, practically, the insurance market will be filled, without any guarantee that the citizens of Serbia and Serbia will benefit from it. We're in favour of privatizing these systems according to model 49:51. That's one reason why we can't support this law, like we couldn't even support the Privatization Act. I have to say, of course, it's a question of concept. About concepts, we don't understand each other, it's just our political attitude and we're bringing it out here. We have a duty to say why we want to vote for one law or not. Here, in an analysis of the effects of the law and in an explanation, I found one sentence which, in fact, would be good if it were possible, but it's not possible. Here, I will read, on page 4 under V - Analysis of the effects of the law, second paragraph, at the end: ''As trade unions and pensioners' associations have launched before the Constitutional Court an initiative to determine the unconstitutional nature of the provisions which determine the cash compensation instead of free division of shares to employees'', etc. It's all nice, but there's no constitutional court. So in the light of these amendments and the addition of the Law, it says something that would otherwise be completely normal, but this is not a normal state, there is no Constitutional Court here, and what it says here is not possible to achieve. You can of course, in accordance with the Constitution, turn to seeking the assessment of the constitutionality of one act or the protection of another right. You'll find yourself in our country on a misery that, here, takes a long time. So someone in our country has an interest, and that's what's dangerous, that citizens can't exercise fundamental rights, to assess whether certain acts are in accordance with the Constitution and, of course, to repeat, such states are classified into non-democratic states. So it's not a democratic state that has a public service, it's a democratic state that has a constitutional court. When citizens of one country can exercise all rights in terms of achieving different forms of legal protection, then they can say that a normal environment is created, a state, political, legal, and that it is a legal state, and the other, hopefully, does not exist. We, unfortunately, don't have that. That's what we said a few times here. This is where we play deaf phones with it. Again, I ask all those who can contribute to the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, in accordance with the implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, to be done in the manner provided for, as soon as possible. Otherwise, any act can write this, but this doesn't mean anything. I remind you, two so-called. democratic governments, for more than a year and a half, exercised power on behalf of Serbian citizens without the Constitutional Court. It's something that's a simple fact and I want to say it here one more time. So standing up for the highest possible principles of democracy is quite expected, as is fully expected when someone comes to power and implements everything he has promised in the campaign. I know this isn't a political issue in Serbia. I'd be more scared if it were a political issue. This, unfortunately, is a personal issue in Serbia. Large parties cannot agree on their behalf who will be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, and that is the worst possible position. There is no human policy in Serbia, personal policy is being conducted in Serbia, a personal party policy guaranteeing that someone will protect the constitutionality and rights of all citizens and institutions of this country, precisely, means that he must have a membership book of a particular political party. It's a very slippery terrain, which you entered without any guilt from the opposition. You did it yourself, and here you are, you can't finish it yourself for a few months. Also, in order not to report to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that yesterday was the session of the RTS Programme Committee, that last night, with that in mind, a statement was issued. What I'm saying is that I didn't vote for that statement and the conclusion of the Programme Committee and that I disagreed with him. I call on fellow MPs who are members and who have been elected by this parliament to the Programme Committee to attend meetings of the Programme Committee and there to fight for what is the interest of this Parliament and of the citizens of Serbia. We don't need to fight any war with TV. TV acts the way it's allowed. Once again, I would like to say that when Predrag Markovic chaired Parliament, whatever anyone thought of it, it was not possible for Parliament to work for one second unless there was a direct TV transmission. So this is a question that must be regulated in a way that TV has no damage and that Parliament functions normally. One such arrangement was almost reached, then some others called. I want to say, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the DS, DSS, G17 plus and other political parties, there has been a great struggle in this country to exercise the right to direct transfer of parliamentary sessions. Don't let us think that you're not able to withstand the criticism of the authorities today, because that can be one of the reasons, and that you can explain that you want efficient work, that you want things to be solved faster. There's a lot that can be solved. As host to the house, let the President of Parliament call on the heads of Parliament's clubs and agree with them on elementary matters and just let the agreement be respected. If one deal is reached in the morning, and the afternoon is broken by the host of the house, then it is no longer possible. It doesn't make any sense. I also want to say that yesterday I asked to be explained who owns the 48-hour wedding show. I didn't get the right answer, since I was told it was produced by a foreign company. I would like to inform you that I will ask Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information, to explain precisely who is the owner of this show, since we of course know what this is about, who has been tasked with painting Serbia in the worst possible colors and rephrase it every day. How is it possible that there's room for this at the Public Service, and there's no other very important thing? So there's this whole series of questions that's going to open up. I'm asking for your support with this relationship. Once again, I call on DS representatives to direct a member of the Programme Committee to the meetings of the Programme Committee. I call on my colleagues from the SRS to participate in the work of the Programme Committee and call on everyone else, who goes there, to represent the interests of the citizens. We're not RTS lawyers, we're not Parliament lawyers, we're Serbian citizens' lawyers. When I go there, I know exactly that there are 250,000 full-aged citizens behind me and they expect me to act like that. So, I remind you, I have not yet used 10 minutes, that in the procedure, when the Law was passed in 2002, there was another law, which was rejected by indignity, as it is said. Rade Veljanovski wrote the law, Mr. Korac was the government's authorised representative in connection with this law, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic was president of the DOS parliamentary group. A law was passed that left RTS one frequency. So I was saying that it's hidden, that it's going to come up as a real consequence one day, when RTS is going to turn out to be a problem, that it can't perform and that it's going to function as a basic because it doesn't have a frequency. The frequency is thought-out and given to one of those who are now using the national frequency.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7134	One brief notice. The session of the Transport and Connection Committee will be held in the third floor hall at 1400 hours. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7135	Comrade Baralich, I don't believe you had any bad intentions, but for the sake of the public, I need to clarify what you said, it turned out very incorrect. So, counterpart Baralic, it sounded incorrect when you called from this speaker the SRS MPs to participate in the work of the Public Service Programme Council, as they say here, of European Serbia. It is not your concern in which bodies and where the SRS deputies participate in the work, nor in any way do we fight for the rights of Serbian citizens, and I remind us, the most in this parliament is the majority of Serbia's citizens behind the SRS. We know perfectly how we should fight for the rights not only of those citizens who voted for us, but of the rights of all Serbian citizens. If there is someone in this House who does his job seriously and responsibly, then it is the MPs of the SRS. We are not obliged to give you our reasons, and our fight against former JUL Minister Alexander Tijanic and RTS, so-called. The public service of European Serbia, I think you noticed, we run daily, in all cities and villages in Serbia, we go from house to house, we ask for the signatures and support of Serbian citizens that RTS, because Serbian citizens pay a subscription to that television, enables the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, president of Serbian radicals, expected in early November. Comrade Baralic, I would like you and other colleagues and this speaker to support this fight against Aleksandar Tijanic, the self-will of former JUL Minister, who, we heard, made a scandal last night on a show. Of course we already said by colleague Elena Christmas-Talian, we condemn what happened on that show. I would really like the other colleagues to join the SRS when we, but always found, condemn both RTS, and B92, and Pink, and all other televisions of which some in continuity, and some from time to time, act anti-Serbian, create some particular public opinion. Since I was challenged by your exposure, my colleague Baralic, and I said in the beginning that I did not believe that you had an evil intention, I am taking the opportunity to inform Serbian citizens not to be disturbed by SRS activists, that they do not experience them as a distraction, that they have patience when they come to their door, to prepare their ID card, to give their signature and to support our idea that soon the whole of Serbia will see Vojislav Seselj tear apart The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7136	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7137	I answered the line, not according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Judjevich. There's no misunderstanding, I hope. If you had carefully read the lists you offered to the MPs, then you would have found my signature there. That's the first one. Secondly, I have no intention of having anyone in front of me, God forgive me, I'm not a god, I don't have what these modern ones would say, that capacity to make me an account. So it's not about that. I have only appealed to colleagues who have been elected by Parliament to the Programme Committee, it is their assessment whether or not they will, because there is the next situation, and they should know it. Mr. Hiber, who was elected on behalf of the DS, does not attend these sessions because Mr. Vukic is also elected there, and Mr. Vukic is otherwise not present. I think that's too bad. They should both be there. It was my idea, not in any way to call the members of the Committee, who make their own decisions about where they will participate and where they will not. Once again, I ask all those who can help, not with employees in Television, with Television, as an institution, to build any self. Television has its own management, the National Assembly has its own president, and we expect them to agree and do this thing right. I want to say that a correct agreement has been reached, but that, after that, it has become a media topic again, without any need. So we insist that this agreement is respected, that Parliament is sitting between 10 and 18 hours and that it is served by the Public Service, and this second one be a matter of public agreement, that is no problem. Otherwise, Parliament will be left without opposition, or the opposition will exercise its rights by means of an extra-institutional fight, which I hope no one wants. So, we are referring to what has been a practice so far and we want to keep it that way in the future. Serbian citizens pay a television subscription. Serbia's television has been provided, by the Public Procurement Act, to earn public advertising, although I now see a big lobby doing something against it. So that's what I'm opposed to. During NATO aggression, RTS had, practically, a shortened whole system, all relays, the building was set on fire on October 5th, a building was bombed before that, people died, there are a large number of people from Kosovo and Metohija who are in a formal working relationship. There's a lot of problems out there, and it's not just television. It's two TV programs, three Radio programs, several orchestras, choir, sound carrier production. So it's a huge system that's of national importance and doesn't need to be identified by the director of Television. I have the best possible opinion of people who work there, and they work for a small salary. So you need to do everything to make things better. Also, I want to say that the EPS takes five million and 400,000 euros a year because it serves a subscription from Serbian citizens. Also, the state takes it, Mr. Cvetkovic knows it, because such rules are, like, so much tax. The tax and the subscription is one-sixth of Serbia's total income from the subscription. So there's a lot of money. I advocate that we help as much as we can, find a way to help them, but break this controversy because it doesn't lead to anything. Serbian citizens should be informed about what is happening here, as of course they should also be informed about the best cultural, sports, educational and all other contents. It's not easy to achieve. Here, the other day, a question like that opened up. It is absolutely true that one minute of a played series costs 1000 euros, that one episode of an hour costs 60,000 euros. It's an enormous cost, but I have to say, there's a huge number of people who pay television subscription and we expect these things to be found somewhere, that no one has any damage. Otherwise, this labelling by Mr Tijanic of the National Assembly does not lead to anything. I really don't want to break it down with him, but this country doesn't deserve to have the Director of a public service polished with its institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7138	Advertising of Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, provision of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. On several occasions, I will repeat until I get an answer, I asked the President of the Assembly when an initiative, a folk initiative, was articulated two years ago by the Democratic Party of Serbia, to amend the Law on Broadcasting, which abolishes the television subscription, because the imposition of a television subscription is beyond the number of electricity, absolutely, unconstitutional. The Democratic Christian Party of Serbia also launched an initiative to assess constitutionality, also two years ago, but Serbia unfortunately has no Constitutional Court for more than a year. That's why things like this happen to us. This is where people pay, even, most citizens who have opportunities, cable TV connections and don't care about RTS programs. It's an elemental right for citizens not to pay for what they don't use. It's clear all over the sky. It's even more basic that you can't subscribe to an electricity bill. Then RTS scares the citizens, so he can't even scare them, but he says we filed a lawsuit. They don't have any basic legal or legal knowledge, because it could be a proposal to execute, based on a credible ID, not a lawsuit, which shows they're lying. But the issue is for the Republic Public Prosecutor, the perpetrator of the duty of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, who was the special prosecutor for organised crime when I filed a criminal complaint against Alexander Tijanic in September 2005, for abuse of the official position in buying out the "Universal" films, through a phantom of the "Digitrak" company, with a bunch of material evidence. He who passed the Law School could see the abuses involved. The application was not rejected, because then I would take over the prosecution, and it was not processed, but is standing in the drawer, because he is a favorite of Mira Markovic, Mirko Marjanovic, Vojislav Kostunica, the head of the Public Service, on the shame and shame of all citizens of this country. The progeny of hate speech is the head of the Public Service. Thirdly, I understand Mr. Baralic, he promised me he would check, his intervention is well-intentioned, but they also deceived Mr. Baralic. I asked the government a question the other day, and the prime minister, and the minister of culture -- is it true that RTS has arranged a series of 100 episodes with a producer house from Croatia "AVA", at a price – a minute, 1000 euros? Mr. Baralic received some answer that he allegedly did not. That's right. Time will prove it's true. Now it's not just a question of whether it's worth or not 1,000 euros, it's a question of whether it was a public tender, whether RTS could have produced it himself, because it has its own drama directorship, it has its own production, could it have done it through some production house from here, when the series will be recorded here and with our actors? I'm responsible, but there are bigger experts than us, so that in that case the recording of that series would be incomparably cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7140	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7141	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the current government is not paying attention to the laws to which the Constitution obliges them, which are to be found at the sitting, first of all, during the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, I am asking the question when will be on the agenda a set of judicial laws, on the choice of judges, re-election of judges, prosecutors, the President of the Courts and other holders of judicial functions? This is foreseen by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 5 paragraph 2: 'In the course of the Second Session, following the government's election, the National Assembly will agree with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution to the courts and public prosecutors, the laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, the election and termination of the office of the President of the Judges and Judges, the High Council of the judiciary, the organisation and the jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the selection and termination of the office of public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors and the State's chief prosecutors. 'Ladies and gentlemen, these laws must be before Parliament in time and in the way that the Constitution provides. The Constitution is the highest legal act. The law implementing the Constitution is imperative for Parliament and the competent authorities to submit proposals for certain laws before the Assembly so that they can comply with the Constitution. I recently asked a question relating to the number of cases in front of the Constitutional Court. So how many pending cases are there per year, given that we do not have a Constitutional Court, that Serbian citizens do not have the opportunity to address, both natural and legal persons, the competent institutions of the state, i.e. to the competent constitutional court to prevent the will and inflation of unnecessary, to say, in practice inapplicable, both law and sublegal acts? Our citizens have no one to turn to, to seek protection, to have no protection because there is an inflation of regulations and other sublegal acts of the current government in this country. It's about inflation laws that can't be applied in practice. That's why I'm asking a question and I'm looking for answers - when will these laws be in front of Parliament? There are other issues I have asked about the jurisdiction and work of the Constitutional Court, so that Serbian citizens can know whether to count on the Constitutional Court of the Serbian State, or to address the relevant international institutions and the International Court in Strasbourg directly. That's what I wanted to say as an SRS MP. Serbian radicals advocate, above all, that the right be above politics, not as is the case -- politics is above the law, above the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7142	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. And now I give my word to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to give a relatively brief presentation, although there has been a lot of discussion from my previous presentation to this. However, I failed to discuss the situation in southern Serbia, domestic violence, the situation in Ruma, the situation in RTS, etc. I find the elements that would be relevant to the insurance law. That's why I'm going to look back at those parts that are referring to the insurance law right now. In this regard, I should apologize to you at first, because from the presentation of one MP, I have concluded that the word 'false' has been experienced with dissatisfaction. Personally, I don't think she's offensive, but if anyone feels that way, then I apologize to him, and I'll try not to use her. I think it's important to mention four or four things that are exposed here in the meantime. It is not the correct view that this law is about the Privatisation Agency. It is also not the correct view that this law is about a 5% commission, as well as that the Privatisation Agency has included 160 million etc. The right attitudes are next. First, a privatisation agency in the financial sector is called the Deposit Insurance Agency, has nothing to do with the Privatisation Agency. Secondly, the issue of funding the agency, and I will return to those views regarding this 160 million. In fact, when you have one such organ, you have two options to provide funds for its work. One option is to include it as a budgetary user and on the basis of plans, you give it an annual amount of funds. The second is that he from some of his activities, through some, as is said here, commissions, and so it says, provides funds for his work. When the Privatisation Agency was originally established, then this first case was in the option, it was a direct budget user and did not charge any fees. It then gave up that concept and came into this new story, about these five percent that it's about. But that was recently, two or three years ago, so I think applying a percentage of five percent to total privatisation leads to quite wrong figures. But, on the other hand, what is favourable is the fact that the Assembly has a board that deals with privatisation issues and the Privatisation Agency has an obligation to regularly deliver its reports, so that all those who are interested are tasked with making a report - and vice versa, and in advance, so that they can get information on how many commissions there have been, so that we do not bid by heart and give great figures. To get back on the subject now, that I'm not walking away from her either. So, the commission mentioned here is a commission belonging to the Deposit Insurance Agency, for two remaining insurance organisations, where the state has a certain participation, i.e. social capital. I already said that yesterday, but it's very important here to mention this about these percentages. It is also not the correct view that social capital is majority in these two insurance organisations. What I'm saying is very important, for the next reason. If it were to give up the concept that was proposed, which is the relationship - 70% is sold, and 30% is divided free, and it goes to another concept, then we would be able to go to a direct privatisation, which is now in progress, practically, to make it possible for the state interest to be minimised, because we have only 40% of the capital that is in play. What I want to conclude is that what is proposed in this law is about changes in the work on privatisation, for workers and citizens far more favourable than the option that is now on stage and which would have been realised if these changes had not occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7144	Thank you. Replica, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7145	Yesterday and today I am speaking, explaining that jurisdiction over insurance companies, not your credit, was transferred not during your term of office, but earlier, from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Finance, and the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency was transferred to the Deposit Insurance Agency. So we don't have a dilemma here. The principle remains that the commission, as a fee for success, is accounted for in the privatisation of the real sector, means, businesses, means, through the Privatisation Agency, under the Regulation signed by Mr. Bubalo, which was published in the 'Official Messenger' No. 49, which is 5%. This means that in 2006, let's not go any further, let's just take that white book of foreign investors, we have the budget, the proceeds from privatisation, which you call "the foreign direct investment," were four billion, of which only 0.8 real ones, those greenfields, and the remaining revenues from privatisation. It doesn't matter if they were charged by one agency or another. These were in 2006, 5% per 3.2 billion in the privatisation money -- 160m euros. How much will you charge, Mr. Minister, I've written amendments? You are given the right, by law, to determine the amount of commission for the privatisation of insurance companies. So much for that. It's not that we don't understand each other. We don't listen to each other on purpose, or you don't listen to my arguments. I simply am not protesting you against it, but I would like to warn the citizens that we are very realistically looking at, not only the difference in the concept of privatisation, where, I repeat, they do not need to invest in insurance companies new funds to provide a quality service, but to open the door to foreign societies, that they are developing a new service - life insurance. That's what we're different about. You will not give citizens an opportunity to, for example, exercise action and buy actions that today are worth, perhaps one amount, and in just a year, or in just a year, with the development of the insurance market, will be worth more than that, just as I have no dilemma that we have two major state-owned societies. The company that owns the state, it's a Danube, it's more successful, and I've given data on it, compared to DDOR, which has mixed stock capital. So we understand each other perfectly, but I understand you, too, and you've been assigned to defend a law that is not favourable to citizens, which we understand perfectly. I am truly sorry, you, by accepting the post of minister, have accepted that, but I want the citizens to hear our reasoned arguments against your law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7146	Thank you. Minister Cvetkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7147	I think there's another misunderstanding point. My proposal was that, instead of bidding the figures, you were looking for the exact information about how much the Agency charged. This remains in the proposal, so that we do not come up with an enormous number, etc. As far as the IPO is concerned, I think the public offer as a proposal is very good. Otherwise, it is necessary to provide quality material for the development of the capital and stock market and is seriously considering the option. However, it is not, or does not necessarily have to be related to privatisation itself, it can also be tied to capitalisation, it can also be tied to some companies where minority packages are sold. It's possible it's an interesting topic of IPO, I think it is, but it's not the subject of this law. And finally, to conclude that it is safe and necessary for citizens to know that the solutions proposed in this law are better for citizens and working people than the solutions that exist and that would apply if this law did not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7148	Thank you. I hereby conclude a principled search of this law. I'm setting a break. Resumption is at 15 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7149	Dear gentlemen, we continue our work. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organization and jurisdiction of the State orgnance in the War Crimes Procedure You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government, as well as reports by the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: The Serbian Radical Party's MP group - one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party MP group - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds, MEP group G17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, Parliamentary Group of Liberal-Democratic Party - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Union of Roma Serbia, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, MP group '' - LSVV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Proposer representative Dusan Petrovic, the minister of justice, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agenda item is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. In 2003, Serbia passed laws in this parliament that established specific rules under which criminal proceedings were conducted in two large areas. One area is the fight against organised crime, the other is the introduction of criminal proceedings in war crimes proceedings. Both procedures, with their rules, represent certain derogations from the general rules which have been governed and laid down by the Code of Criminal Procedure. As everywhere in the world, it turns out that it is not possible in Serbia to carry out crimes for the most serious crimes, both from organised crime and crimes of war crimes, and not to establish procedures that deviate from those who are regular and who are committed in criminal acts outside these areas of criminal law and criminal law. It is not possible to conduct criminal proceedings without specific means of proof, such as witnesses, such as special powers of prosecutors and investigative judges to state authorities, in particular, but also to banks and other financial institutions, with regard to obtaining evidence to be conducted and proving criminal offences in such proceedings. Also, specific institutions of criminal procedural law, such as the covert investigator, the conclusion of simultaneous legal transactions, the provision of simultaneous business services, etc. Both sets of rules are contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in one particular chapter, but also in two laws, and on one of those two laws today we are having a debate and the Assembly should, if most of them are found to exist, bring about an amendment to that procedure. In addition to all the problems that one country has in transition and which are not only specific to Serbia, nor in anything special compared to other transition countries, we had an unfortunate historical period in the 1990s, when, from 1991 to the end of 1999, wars were waged in the former Yugoslavia's space. In these wars, unfortunately, there has been a situation where a large number of people are suspected, accused, a number of persons have been convicted and convicted of committing crimes, and the crimes contained in both the UN convention and our criminal law and the criminal law of every civilised country, therefore, crimes against humanity. For these crimes, it was necessary to establish a special set of rules under which these proceedings are conducted. It turns out that to successfully conduct these procedures, it is necessary to amend and supplement the rules under which these procedures are going, and that is, the subject of what we are discussing here today and what we should decide on. Namely, criminal proceedings, from the moment they begin, but also pre-criminal proceedings, against those persons suspected of committing crimes found by this law as being the subject of prosecution, which, in different situations and in different ways, hides themselves from the availability of justice. This is why it is very important to open up the possibility for those who are responsible for this, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, who is responsible for launching and leading these criminal proceedings, the Council for War Crimes of the Belgrade District Court, also to create a legal framework and to establish and offices new institutes that will cover the perpetrators of these crimes, or the persons suspected of having committed these crimes, from the hands of the law, which hide traces of the crimes committed and thus obstruct the exercise of justice. Therefore, this proposal to amend and supplement the Law should introduce into our criminal justice system the possibility that these special procedures, under which war crimes are still being tried today, should include those persons who assist the perpetrators, which are provided for from Article 370 to Article 386 of our criminal code. I am fully convinced that, from 2003 to today, the Special Justice's conduct has been fully legitimate and confirmed by the correctness of the decision to prosecute these crimes by such special procedures and special institutions. I mean here and in the field of organized crime, as well as in the area of war crimes. Unfortunately, it turns out that the regular judiciary does not have enough power to deal successfully with such actions and it is important for us to pass a new regulation that will strengthen both the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and create a possibility for the Council of War Crimes and the second-degreed instance, which is particularly the Supreme Court of Serbia, to establish the truth, to establish the truth in a single, legitimate way, to establish the truth in criminal proceedings. For Serbia, this is of great importance, to us as a society, to us as citizens. It is of invaluable importance to determine whether persons suspected, accused and accused are indeed guilty of these most serious crimes being put on their backs or not. I am convinced that Serbia has the strength to do so. I am convinced that the Serbian judiciary has the strength to bring these proceedings to an end successfully and to establish the truth. The truth is all that matters. When there is a suspicion that crimes have been committed, there is no other truth than judicial truth. So, I urge you, after the debate, to pass a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes proceedings. I call on you to make a decision that will strengthen Serbia's judiciary and strengthen the state in Serbia, which will allow our society to be stronger than it is now. This is important for anyone who lives in this country, because where justice cannot be obtained in court, where it is not possible to establish in criminal proceedings who is guilty and who is innocent, there is a law stronger. Where there's a stronger law, there's no civilization. We're a civilized people, we're a civilized country, and that's why there's no reason why in court procedures we don't prove the truth in these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7151	I thank the proposing representative, Dusan Petrovic, the minister of justice. The Rules of Procedure are being advertised by MPplatmir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7152	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, you have not given me the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, with all due respect to Mr. Minister. I don't know if it's about party discipline or anything else. I answered on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. In fact, during the day, I received a delegation and received letters and decisions regarding education in the municipality of Dragas, so let me talk to the public and get to know what it is. Allegedly, the temporary institutions of self-management in Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Education, have made a decision, pursuant to Article 13 d) of UNMIK Regulation No 2001/19, on the exercise of the defence of temporary self-government institutions in Kosovo, Administrative Regulation No 2003/2 to implement UNMIK Regulation No 2001.3e on Civil Service of Kosovo, Article 20. The law on primary and secondary education in Kosovo. Namely, the Ministry of Education and Science makes a decision: ''1. All teachers of the Bosniak-Gorskina community are obliged to sign work contracts for school 2006/2007. year with municipal directory for education, according to public competition; 2. All schools working with Kosovo's plans and programmes to continue their work normally; 3. This school year should be a period of introduction to plans and programmes and school textbooks, according to education reform in Kosovo and 4. In school 2007/2008 year, mandatory to implement Kosovo's plans and programmes in all schools. Explanation - relying on the above provisions, as well as with the aim of organising a curricula programme under the provisions of the law in force, teachers are asked to have signed labour contracts with municipal education directors for 2006 and 2007. The teachers of this community are obliged to school 2007/2008. They've been working towards plans and programmes of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for years. With all this in mind, it's decided to be in disposition of this decision. ''The decision is delivered by SO Dragash, the cabinet of ministers and so on. Based on this decision, the municipal directors of education, as they call them, have made their notice and their decisions, and I quote that. ''Subject - notice of the date of signature of the contract of employment. We hereby inform all principals of the primary schools of the Bosniak and Gorani minority communities that by Day 5. Ten. In 2007, the deadline for bringing in work contracts signed by workers working in your schools. Workers who have not signed a contract to work with the municipal education directorates will be expelled from the school facilities they are already working in. ''I reported from because I think it's a serious problem and this applies to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, to the Coordination Centre, and, above all, to the Ministry of Education. Back in the eight years, in the territory of the municipality of Dragas, in Gora, there are about 1,200 students and there are 160 teachers and professors. For the past eight years, teaching has been without major problems, under the Ministry of Education programme of the Republic of Serbia, and everything has been financed, continues to be financed, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is why I am asking the competent ministry, in this case, of the Ministry of Education, to take measures to avoid, within two days, the interruption of teaching and exorcision of teaching staff from the Dragas schools, although they identify themselves and demand that the programme and teaching be attended in the Serbian language and according to the programme of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7153	We're continuing the 9th point of the agenda. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Whether the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, has issued an opinion, wants to explain why he has singled out his opinion, Article 93, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Not here) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The river has Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS, and then Dr Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7154	I hope that in the next 20 minutes, with as little use as possible of some professional terms, I will present the SRS' position on this bill amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. At first, I must inform you that the SRS has submitted amendments to this bill and will vote against this law. We have enough arguments, but I would ask at the outset for a little attention, because it's a serious issue, more for the public, and also for MPs who are in the new council, so they don't have some continuity, or they don't have any idea what's been going on with this law since 2003, when it was brought in. To begin with, I have to inform you, it seems to me that this law was passed right after the emergency in 2003, and it read - the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the State Authorities in the case of war crimes offenders. You see, this -- against the war crimes offender, was later changed. It was changed during the next change, which was in 2004. Why do I point out these words - against the war crimes offender? Those words were later replaced by words - for war crimes. Because based on this, I'm making a connection to something the billmaker is calling for, and that's the statute of the UN tribunal. He has a full name in his original, you will see what it looks like, the International Court of Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. In the very name of this Statute, many questions are prejudged. This prejudication means that any person against whom the indictment has been brought has previously been held responsible because the name says that it is responsible persons for serious violations of humanitarian law. So the court doesn't determine their responsibility. Their responsibility is practically assumed. It was similar with our law. So, in the war crimes case, there's no suspect, he's already a war criminal, as soon as he's been charged. Someone later realized it needed to change, to throw it out, so that word was replaced by words for war crimes. When this law was passed, why was this law passed? The law was passed in 2003, based on some end-of-the-work strategy of the UN tribunal. Then someone concluded that it was impossible to capture everything and that something called experience should be resorted to. Experience is Nuremberg. There was a statute in Nuremberg, and then, on the basis of that, the Control Law No. 10 was passed, which led the occupiers in Germany to carry out some justice. Why is this relationship so important? It is important because in the Statute of the Nuremberg Court, Article 6(a), in the context of crimes against humanity, there was also aggression, and an integral part of it was a conspiracy. Today in modern times, it's called a joint criminal enterprise. There is no joint criminal enterprise in the UN tribunal's Statute and it comes up with some interpretation. You'll see later why this relationship is important, because we've got a picture here. In 2003, Serbia had already had experience with war crimes trials. It was done by regular courts, but since it was unable to secure control of those on the side, as these procedures are being conducted, then a system designed for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia, to go to something special that would be under control. This was particularly controlled by the fact that the judges were determined to judge these cases in this special court had to go to training in the United States, to learn how to judge these cases. However, the United States has no experience in the war crimes trial. They had one item, Vietnamese, I think it was Lieutenant Kaylie, who, even, suffered the most severe punishment of 10 years in the military camp suite. Why does this relationship matter? It is important because our court is under watch and the UN tribunal and foreign intelligence services. We used to inform the public about the famous Sam Lazarus, who was walking through that court and through the prosecution as he wanted and as he imagined. So the law we're discussing today and its fourth amendment and supplement is no different from Control Law No. 10, based on which they used to de facto in Germany. We do not have derbification, which is what Natasa Kandic and the others are in charge of. The original text of this law contained numerous shortcomings. I don't want that text all the way through. I will draw your attention to the first next amendment to the law, which was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 135/04. Then, in another way, the actual jurisdiction of that court was determined. I'm not going into any of the details of actual jurisdiction right now. You know I have a negative attitude towards it. How was the court's jurisdiction defined? Crimes against humanity and international law were laid down, in Chapter sixteen, at that time, by the basic, criminal law, which is somewhat acceptable, at point 2 severe violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which are listed in the Statute of the International Criminal Court. How can the UN tribunal's statute be a source of law for the Republic of Serbia? That's absolutely impossible. I must draw your attention that the UN tribunal's Statute has brought to the Security Council a resolution. The Hague tribunal is an illegal, illegal court. It wasn't formed by an international contract. The proof of this is the Roman Statute. In July 1998, an international treaty was adopted in Rome, with accession states having Member States' status. The congregation was later held, when a rule of procedure and proof was adopted. The characteristics of the Roman Statute are also that the elements of the beings of all criminal acts that are placed in serious violations of international humanitarian law are defined by someone with legislative power, which is the assembly of Member States. What happened in The Hague? In The Hague, it happened that the Statute authorised judges to adopt a rule of procedure and evidence. While I'm at that rule, I have to point out to you Article 14a of the proposal, that is, this law in the original text, which says, in the case of the former Yugoslavia, in accordance with the statute and rules of procedure and evidence. Our legislator didn't even know what that rule was called, because he said the rules on procedure and evidence. The act brought by judges of the UN tribunal should oblige our judiciary. Is that possible if the principle of legality is not violated in the broadest sense? Anything's possible. What is the structure of this law? It's a painting of The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal has a section called the prosecutor's office, has a court section that has a search and appeal council, has a secretariat, has a detention unit. Can you imagine the name of our custody unit? Look - special detention unit for holding custody. The sentence of prison is maintained, detention is not maintained, detention is the measure to ensure the presence of the accused in court proceedings. We've got a hold-up and a hold-up. We have a Council of War Crimes, which matches the court's search and appeal councils in The Hague. We have a special department to do administrative and technical work. It's a secretariat, as in The Hague, there's a secretariat. Of course, someone's gonna understand that some frog raised her leg to get her shoes on, because she saw a horse weave. It's becoming a cartoon in Serbia. Needs a court, needs a prosecutor's office, are special structures that will be kept awake and operate on orders from abroad. As Control Law number 10 was an expression of occupation will, this law is also an expression of some who can be considered occupiers. Just say that Natasa Kandic is cheerful and dressing in that court, in the D.A.'s office. She's representing the damaged, she's commenting, she's bringing, she's bringing in, she's deciding who's going to go to special, who's going to judge and who won't judge. She decides who can be the judge in that court. Can we, on the basis of that, conclude that it is an independent, impartial, competent court? Not at all. There's no way to reach such a conclusion. The Criminal Code has been passed and serious violations of international humanitarian law are contained in our code. These are the members Mr Petrovic mentioned from 370 to 386. There's no problem. I must tell you, if the jurisdiction of this court is defined, this council, to be more precise, it is said that point 1 applies to this chapter that we have prescribed these crimes, then it is impossible to apply point 2 which lists the crimes prescribed by The Hague tribunal's Statute. That's impossible. I don't want to go into the material and legal reasons that are numerous. New crimes are being invented in The Hague, even those that do not exist in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the UN tribunal's Statute. We have a paradoxical situation. If you're forcing our judges to apply The Hague tribunal's statutes, and we're going to take, for example, one crime, genocide, what about the provisions of our criminal code on genocide? What's up, primate? I only took this as an example. I can also take a crime against humanity. In a completely different way, it's regulated. It's much better in our law than what the UN tribunal applies. There's not a single case that's being tried in our courts that has no joint criminal enterprise, because there's no material and legal provision on that. In The Hague, as you have seen, it is, above all, judged for a joint criminal enterprise, and that, first of all, for Serbs, or, to be precise, exclusively for Serbs. The only one accused of a joint criminal enterprise, in some ways, is Ante Gotovina, which causes anger in the independent state of Croatia, because they believe they were victims of aggression and cannot be in some joint criminal enterprise when they defend themselves, Kobajagi. They were defending themselves by Mesic driving 150,000 people out of territory where not even a bullet was fired. Take care, this is very dangerous what's going on with us. Then we get to a mirage called the DA. Because of close relationships, friendships, family relationships, somehow a man who's known for being pretty lazy in the District Court was chosen. On his charges, the judges couldn't even handle it. They called on him to change the charges, to edit it elementally. He's acting like Carla del Ponte. He makes political comments, he talks about sanctions. Remember, he was chasing pigeons on time. He's an officer of Carla del Ponte, not an official of this state. That concludes on the basis of his behavior and actions. I guess he's somewhere on an island today, talking to his colleagues. Mr. Petrovic, he has concluded some agreement on some co-operation. If there are elements abroad in the agreement, it would have to be ratified in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I get the impression that he took his independence as an absolute will, through the prosecution and through other authorities, you can say the advice and some other structures. We will continue this search to point out concrete examples where they are trying to put themselves in that most dirty position of Carla del Ponte, which is to provide false witnesses to The Hague tribunal. For the sake of the public, since we have made a little comment today on this gentleman and his work style, only to brief you that, according to the information we have, Mr. Vukcevic hired the Prosecutor's Office and all other structures covered by this law, in some way, so his deputy Bogdan Stankovic demanded, because he was asked by Patrick Lopez Torres during September, that some people are being brought to the Hague tribunal office in Belgrade, although those persons do not want to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, although they have repeatedly, several years ago, said - we do not want to see you, we do not want to falsely testify against some people. There's a stereotype, Mr. Petrovic, that's supposed to be a threat to them. No danger threatens these people. How would we know if these people hadn't informed us what pressure they were under? The Hague tribunal, through its investigators, officials of Jevrem Grujic, etc., this part of the NGO, which you well know, is illegally operating on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The witnesses are reportedly required to testify falsely. When people don't accept it, there's more pressure. Why? Because The Hague has some truth of its own, and he wants to impose his own truth. I agree with you, if you need some truth, give the one we're going to determine by respecting the principle of contradiction, the public, etc., but to come out the truth. I need to draw your attention to the proceedings against Carla del Ponte. I hope I get a chance to talk about all the criminal acts against Carla del Ponte. You're reading the papers these days, what kind of person it is. I would recommend you take a look at a documentary that Carla made about herself, and it's called "Karly's List." She boasts that she is setting up ministers in Serbia, and even, snidely, on the plane, toasting champagne with her pet and commenting on who she was talking to, as he is, whether he is blunt, whether he is dull, whether he is afraid, whether he is lying, whether he is not lying, about people who are in power today. The film is dedicated to the period from September to December 2005, which are authentic recordings of talks with the highest authorities in the Republic of Serbia. You've heard recently that the book by Florence Artman, which says that the UN tribunal is not an independent court at all, that some judges work for foreign intelligence, that some prosecutors work for foreign intelligence, that there are a lot of officials working for other intelligence services. Unfortunately, after so many years, what we warned you about when we passed that co-operation law with The Hague tribunal was all true, that none of the information we told you was false. The fact that you didn't want to see it at that point, that's your problem, but in time, we warned you about what was going on, because 'what was born, the time didn't correct'. It's a fact and you can't get away from it. We will continue to take advantage of the opportunity to point out the specifics of this proposal on amendments and additions to the law. We think you're making a big mistake. For starters, I would draw your attention, Mr Petrovic, given that you are the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia, that with the same care you should take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I've made eight decisions here. All decisions were signed at the time by the deputy secretary of the UN tribunal. His name is David Tolberg. He was elected deputy prosecutor in 2004. Deputy Carla del Ponte is still. In these eight decisions, he practically carried out the torture. From 11 December 2003 to 1 July 2004, Vojislav Seselj could not call anyone on the phone because he had a communication ban, and the ban on communication, Mr Petrovic, was, I read his views: "Being in mind that the defendant is in the parliamentary elections in Serbia, scheduled for 28 December 2003", and then his next finding, that you know what it is, says this way: "the defendant was a candidate in the parliamentary elections", that is a later decision, "having in mind the results of the parliamentary elections in Serbia, held on 28 December, which say that the political party, headed by the defendant, won 82 of the 250 seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Two more sentences, Mr. Grouchy, I know I'm a little out of time. The next set of decisions is: "Being in mind that the presidential elections in Serbia are scheduled for 13 June 2004", so that we can skip those several other decisions, he even knows, before 13 June 2004, that there will be a second round of presidential elections in Serbia; Serbian citizens have not yet expressed their will at the first vote, and he already knows that Tadic and Nikolic are going to the second round. There is no presummation of the innocence of the person accused and is in custody. Vojislav Seselj has been in custody for five years. Thirteen areas of human rights, all in the domain of the right to a fair trial, have been violated by decisions, actions and actions in The Hague tribunal. State shut up. They're preparing a search that's supposed to start on November 7th. No principle of proof will be respected in that search, if that happens. The witness will be dead, several thousand pieces of evidence will be included, without the possibility of Seselj asking any questions about the case. The state of Serbia is silent, and the Serbian citizens, who are mass signing this petition, are citizens from all parties, to be clear, that no one is offended, are asking the Republic of Serbia for a direct TV broadcast of the trial, because the public needs to exercise control as judges have tried, as they have applied the rules. So much for Vojislav Seselj, much for the public of Serbia? He's only looking for what's elemental. The whole concept of this law is wrong, Mr. Petrovic. I know you weren't a minister at the time, but it seems to me that you were an MP in the Federal Assembly. I know how this law was passed. We've pointed to numerous objections, only the legal nature. It's all gone through. The result is bad. Let me draw your attention to one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7155	Mr. Krasic, you may proceed, because you have a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7156	Mr. Grouchy, I'm going to break up for you, so you don't have a problem, that someone else doesn't abuse you for being kind to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7157	I don't have a problem, don't worry about anything. The word is by Dr Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we SPS MPs would have been far more pleased if we had been in a position from Mr Minister, as the legislator of this law on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to hear the real motives for its proposal. In fact, the law is seemingly short, three members, but it is interesting that it comes now that more and more talk is about the arrest and extradition of Karadzic and Mladic, not taking into account the fact that these people are on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. By different representatives of the so-called international communities, or those who officially and unofficially speak on behalf of the European Union, are talking about the need for full co-operation with the European Union. The full co-operation with the European Union, as they are experiencing, is, indisputably, the arrest and extradition of these two people. On the other hand, they are not on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that Serbia cannot therefore be held accountable, but it is placed on her soul. We in the SPS are experiencing this law, a debate on it and, probably, adoption by the assembly majority, as their contribution to this co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which, absolutely, we oppose. We believe that this law is a direct consequence of the Hague tribunal's pressure, in particular, Carla del Ponte, on the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the need to prove this degree of co-operation. For years, we have been saying backwards that The Hague tribunal is a political court and, as such, there is no valuable quality that would recommend it to be an international court that can, I say, express an appropriate kind of justice and punishment. I don't think any of us colleagues in this room or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be against establishing the truth about everything that happened in the events of the 1990s at the premises of the entire former SFRY and that the perpetrators of these war crimes are being punished. But the fact is, at least we in the SPS are experiencing this, that since the mid-1990s, the UN tribunal has turned into something else compared to the intentions shown in the 1990s, when the UN tribunal was founded and when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia accepted that obligation of research and co-operation, co-operation in investigating crimes committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Later developments showed that it was a couple of excellencies, a political court. Now, in 2007, it doesn't take much arguments for this claim. Here, look at what the people themselves who are working in The Hague are saying about the tribunal these days. It is interesting to remind Serbia's public of what they say, because it is now not an SPS position or someone who does not think well of The Hague tribunal, they themselves say it is one court of pressure, one court of concrete policies of certain groups of Western countries and that they are willing to do anything to achieve their goals. Independent Banja Luka journalists performed an interview with Mr. Dragan Kalinic, Carla del Ponte. There is, in black on white, a threat, in fact, that there was direct contact with Radovan Karadzic and a direct threat that he would be killed if he did not surrender to them, or if the surrender is not agreed. The fact is that Carla del Ponte threatened to abolish Republika Srpska, all institutions of Republika Srpska, and thus by negating the Dayton Agreement. You can imagine how much authority this person has and, what people would say, that the fat back has when he dares to threaten to abolish Republika Srpska as a part of Bosnia and Herzegovina established by the Dayton Agreement! It's about the fact that it's a political court, says Mrs. or Miss Florence Artman, who was the closest associate of Carla del Ponte. That's what our media is carrying, who's interested in reading it. As she says, the example works, one side is how Carla del Ponte acted as a prosecutor, but we have this other side. Since the Hague tribunal and the cadiya, both the judge and the prosecutor, and the judge, and the judge, and the verdict, are doing everything together, she is talking about the case being done, Theodore Meron has acted before as a representative of the US administration, but rather as President of the Court. She's saying, for example, that Jeffrey Nuys was an agent of British intelligence. Why am I bringing this up? Because she also finds that the events on Srebrenica would be different, in order to probably learn a lot more about what was going on in Srebrenica that Jeffrey Najs allowed British, American and French intelligence documents to be available to the International Court of Justice in the process, or within the Hague tribunal. Obviously, however, man feared that certain parts of his work biography would reach the public court. After all, let me mention what Jeffrey Nuys himself says about that court. That's what he said when he was almost in Belgrade, and that's what he said about his favorites. He said that The Hague tribunal was a political court, created by politicians in the United Nations, and that the Milosevic trial was one problematic procedure, in which the court was to establish political responsibility by means of legal means. So if you have one such court, and that court is pressuring the domestic judiciary, we Socialists think that, then we can't think positively about the proposals that are being made in order to allegedly improve the work of the judiciary and to determine the responsibility of the perpetrators of all war crimes. We can't help but mention, because this is an opportunity to say this, that the UN tribunal has had, in recent years, an absolute, double archaic. Whether you agree or not, the fact is that the largest number of accused and convicted belong to the Serb people. The fact is that they are double arches and how applicable they are when it comes to Serbs. Take a look at the case of Mr. Krajisnik, who was sentenced to 40 years in prison because he knew or had to know that it had happened, and Naser Oric, for participating in the direct murder of a number of people, was sentenced to two or three years in prison. Look at all the other things that were happening there, the attitude towards the Hague indictees against whom the charges have been brought that are from Serbia and those who are not there -- a favored attitude towards these others and an extremely rigid attitude towards those who are Serbs. I must, unfortunately, mention here, because a man deserves it, and we SPS members have this obligation, the tragic fate of President Slobodan Milosevic, because he was killed by the UN tribunal's carelessness. There were all relevant medical findings to meet a man and to provide treatment at the appropriate clinic, in a country that is a member of the Security Council, one of five permanent members of the Security Council. They didn't allow it, which essentially contributed to his death. So, there is an absolute indemnity on their part regarding the indictees who are from Serbia's space. They changed the rules, who knows how many, hundreds of times, and every time they come across an obstacle. Rules are being changed to ensure that the final effect, and that final effect is only what corresponds to the interests of Western countries. I must mention, it is also a debt to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must remind you, respected colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to the aggression of NATO in 1999. On the question of one of the journalists addressed to Jamie Shea, who was their spokesman, the spokesman, whether they were afraid that perhaps the Hague tribunal would launch proceedings against them, he said they were not afraid; he was their speaker, he said -- no matter what, out of the question. How can someone financed by Western countries be the subject of the work of the UN tribunal?- I'm sorry. I mention this because the UN tribunal was formed under the Charter of the United Nations, but it ignored the fact that NATO, in 1999, without a Security Council decision and contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, bombed a sovereign country. I must mention this aggression, because for us it is an eclectic example of the tribunal's relationship with the state of Serbia, then to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, later Serbia-Montenegro, but also to the state of Serbia, because Serbia was ninety-nine percent the subject of NATO's aggression. I must say that during the aggression, 2300 air strikes were carried out on 995 objects, that 1150 NATO fighter planes launched 1300 cruise missiles and dropped 2,000 bombs, not only on military, but on civilian targets, that 36,000 cluster bombs and 15 tons of ammunition with radioactive charges were delivered, or a total of 112 locations bombed. In addition to military goals, civilian targets have been bombed -- refugee columns in Kosovo and Metohija, a passenger train in the Grdelička gorge, a bridge in Varvarin, markets in Nis, the Dragisa Misovic hospital here in Belgrade, the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. It was destroyed in the bombing of 45 bridges, 28 railway bridges, 148 residential and business buildings. More than 300 schools suffered, many of which were destroyed, damaged, in any case, incapacitated. 176 cultural monuments have been damaged, of which 23 medieval monasteries, a large number of churches throughout Serbia, several mosques and objects of Islamic culture. A third of the country's electronic capacity was destroyed, two refineries were bombed, Panchevo, Novi Sad, NATO forces used the so-called first time. Graphic bombs, which have disabled Serbia's electricity system, from which it has never, or at least so far, recovered. I mention this, firstly, because there is a need for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be reminded of the aggression in 1999, but also of the hypocritical stance of the UN tribunal -- that they did not have enough evidence to initiate proceedings against those who ordered and committed aggression against the SRJ. Please, fellow MPs, when this data is heard and the Hague tribunal's position is heard that they have not had enough evidence, then I think any further story of the UN tribunal is pointless. I have to mention some other things that happened back then in these places, because there was a lot going on, a lot of people were involved, but definitely justice is trying to make it selective. Why am I saying this? We're opinions, I put it out in the beginning, that the adoption of this law at this point has one motive that we haven't heard. The question is, who's behind this? I agree with Mr. Krasic, the question is, who's behind this? Not only the promoter, not only the UN tribunal, there are others involved, who are interested in running things the way they are going, that Serbia be charged with everything that happened in the 1990s, because The Hague tribunal was founded by the UN. In the mid-1990s, he turned himself into something else, and he needs to justify Western countries' policy towards these areas. I have here a document of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, where they speak of their work, their way of working and who helps them. Believe me, fellow MPs, and I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be interested in hearing who's all helping the prosecution's work on war crimes. I quote: "We have immediately started with professional training in various forms and forms, through seminars, consultations, education, with the help of the OSCE Office, the Council of Europe, the embassy of individual states, in the first row of the United States, international NGOs, domestic NGOs, primarily, the Humanitarian Law Fund, in recent times and the Hague tribunal. "I think it's a shame for the state that some of the above-mentioned aids the prosecution's work on war crimes. That state, primarily, needs to do. It's good to determine who the perpetrators of war crimes are, but it's a shame that these are aided by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, because that says something else. If they help, then they're probably looking, not likely, but certainly, to work in a certain way. I'm not saying this by accident. In 1999, I mentioned it several times, but I have to do it now. Following the end of NATO's aggression, the signing of a peace agreement and the adoption of Resolution 1244, by the OSCE, for example, a large human rights document in Kosovo and Metohija came out from 1 December 1998 to 1 July 1999. That book is in our country, I think, if memory serves me well, the publication of that book has been helped by the humanitarian law fund. They were also promoters of that book. Otherwise, for those unlisted, the books, on a few hundred pages, talk about the state of Kosovo and Metohija, the state of human rights. For those unlisted, the report was made on the basis of questionnaires made by UN tribunal officials, I potential that -- UN officials, in refugee camps. One refugee camp was in Macedonia, the other refugee camp was in Albania. It was operated on a number of 780,000 refugees. You remember, one of the reasons, the alleged causes of aggression against the SRJ was to prevent ethnic cleansing. Hague tribunal officials have been making questionnaires, UN tribunal officials have been filling out those forms regarding these refugees. The fact is that there were refugees, but it's interesting that compared to 780,000, after being operated with that number, the questionnaire was made - 0.040 and some percent. It is negligiblely small in relation to the estimates made on Serbia. The assessments of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, were disastrous, as these assessments were meant to justify a bombing that had only recently ceased. The evaluations were supposed to justify the cause -- the Racak case, to justify everything that the West did to Serbia in the 1990s. If anyone has time, it would be good to look at that book, that report, because it's speculated by grades, there's talk -- there's talk, it's known, it's always spoken in the third person, there's no concrete information, no concrete thing about all these events. I don't happen to mention this, because the document, the OSCE made it, was then, in 1999, one of the documents that Serbia was anathemised, and a few years later, two years ago, the document was not included as evidence material in the case against Serbia's state and military leaders in The Hague tribunal. It's not included in the evidence, because it doesn't have the value it's supposed to have as evidence. If the UN tribunal experts worked and everything is true, they probably collected relevant evidence during that job, so they could present it as evidence. I think Mr Krasic mentioned a lot of reasons, and legally speaking about The Hague tribunal and why this law should not be passed. I dared go a little further and talk about the motives of passing this law. Because here, look, we are constantly threatened by The Hague tribunal. We are being threatened by The Hague tribunal, where the UN tribunal's list of demands is constantly expanding. In 2001, when Slobodan Milosevic was to be extradited, the former DOS leaders spoke - only him and no one else, only him, and everything is fine, full co-operation, plus we get money, plus Serbia will be part of integration and everything will be fine. President Milosevic was disgracedly kidnapped, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, was extradited to The Hague tribunal, killed by non-healing, while the UN tribunal's request list was extended. Remember, honourable fellow MPs, the fact that at the time of Operation Sabbe, some people were arrested, engaged in criminal activities, and were then handed over to The Hague tribunal from prison, because they were indicted by The Hague tribunal. Remember that former DOS leaders announced the arrest of people to show how they co-operated with The Hague tribunal. Remember, meanwhile, that the number of people the UN tribunal is interested in has increased terribly. Remember that at the time of every major political event, The Hague tribunal is calling for full co-operation with The Hague tribunal. At a time when a referendum on Montenegro's independence was to be held, all bells were told that there was nothing from Serbia, that it could not be a partner in the common state, because it does not co-operate with The Hague tribunal, and, if Montenegro breaks off, their path will be facilitated. Two years later, one of the defendants was found to be in Montenegro, hiding downstairs, and no one spoke a word of criticism. I don't want to, I don't care what happens to Montenegro at all, I'm telling you that they're double arches. I mentioned all this because I think we should say today, to hear from Mr. Minister, he may not share this attitude, but we Socialists think that the motives of passing this law are different from that declared -- that, I say, all perpetrators of war crimes are arrested and punished. It's not just that. This is the direct dictatorship of Western countries, this is the direct dictatorship of Carla del Ponte, this is the direct dictatorship of certain interests. Then that's what you have to say. Why hide? If we're talking about the right stronger, then we should tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is what this is about and that, I mean, let it be said, if you want, not to say something else. For us, the Socialists, in any case, it is unacceptable to pass this law, because we believe that a dictatorship to a sovereign country cannot be the main reason for the adoption of a law in the highest legislative home, such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For that reason, we will not vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7159	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7160	Mr. President, it's a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure, but before I begin to explain it, just to complete the information Mr. Obradovic gave. He discussed a final report by the UN Prosecutor's Office of the UN war crimes tribunal, and it is true, the Commission of Experts, with all the problems it had with the NATO Pact, believes there is insufficient evidence to press charges against NATO officials for crimes from the UN tribunal's Statute. But what they have absolutely found is that NATO has committed a crime against peace, aggression, and aggression and a crime against peace are not covered by the UN tribunal's Statute. So they found that there was aggression in that area where the prosecution was asked. The Commission was formed by Louise Arbur, which was later changed on September 15th 1999. I'll tell you about how Carla del Ponte came, what it's got to do with Pacoli, what Jelicin and others have to do with the prosecutor's change, etc. So the prosecution's experts have come to the conclusion that a crime against peace has been committed in the territory of the SRJ. Now, Mr. President, what I've reported for is a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petrovic, that's the member who says the bill should contain both the explanation and these other parts. I think this debate would be necessary for you to give us some more information. Why you have entered into Article 1 of the Code a criminal offence - aiding the perpetrator after a crime in Article 333. Criminal law? We need an explanation for the reasons, which is what this is about. You will agree, Mr Petrovic, that the crimes against the judiciary are covered by chapter 30, and that in that chapter, the crimes against the judiciary, there is this crime -- aid to the perpetrator after the crime was committed. It's clear to all of us that it's about, as you say, the flocks. We haven't heard that word yet, when we hear that word, then we'll probably do it another way to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7161	Mr. Krasic, I have a proposition for you. Since you're the first person on the log-in list right now, let me break your time so I can give you the word on the list and start saying all this stuff that you wanted to say. Do you agree? Since you're running out of time in the Rules of Procedure, here, now you're getting your word and we're starting a debate. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7162	I agree, Mr. President, if that's the case, I can only continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7163	Here, you have a new time and it's starting to run for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7164	Mr Petrovic, in Article 333. Criminal code is an independent criminal act. When I say a crime of my own, it means it's punishable to help every criminal, not only these crimes involving crimes against humanity, but ordinary thefts, etc. etc. In Article 333 and penalties are classified depending on the severity of the criminal act of an perpetrator whom he was concealing, safeguarding, etc. How could you put this crime into this law because this is a law of jurisdiction? If we go with that logic that you applied in the making of this bill, I must slightly criticize you. I think it could've been a crime -- not reporting the crime and the perpetrator, and then it could've gone and -- false reporting in connection with points 1 and 2. This for false reporting, Natasa Kandic reported to Tomislav Nikolic that he killed 15 people in the village of Antin. How did she charge him? She accused him on the show, through newspapers, all possible prosecutions, courts and all possible police, who denied him, said there was no evidence of that. Has anyone started a trial against her? No, I don't. Next, giving false testimony. Why didn't you tie this crime to the jurisdiction of this special court, the special council and the special authorities, but you took this cover-up? Furthermore, I think you have a very narrow interpretation of the concept of retroactivity. You're going to say - it's war crimes, they don't get old. They don't go out of date, but these acts help the perpetrator after a crime has been committed, do they go out of date or do they have to share in the fate of war crimes? I'm glad if it isn't, I'm very glad if it isn't, but I doubt it, Mr. Petrovic. No, no, this isn't just a procedure, this is a matter of jurisdiction. This is, above all, a law on jurisdiction, and a particular chapter on the procedure, where listening is possible, etc., that is another area, I agree. I'm talking about the first member talking about jurisdiction. What do they want with this law? That the case against "bulbs" should not be brought before a court of law, but before the Special Court. Why? Because the Special Court is under the control of Natasha Kandic, Sam Lazara, Nancy, as they were called, NGOs, you have this one here, as it is called, which has only an address, and there are no people, the Youth Initiative for Human Rights, as they are called. They sent trainees to The Hague to prepare for future war crimes judges, can you imagine? There's no one at that address. Look at their site, it's in Serbian and Albanian, Nosov, Nozrov, as they call it. Those are the ones who filed a criminal report against me last year, only because I went to Vojislav Seselj for a visit. Now they're attacking Wolf and me, just because they know we need to be on the team to help Vojislav Seselj, there's no other reason. Just because the trial isn't fair and the public doesn't know anything about how someone's rights were violated and the state is asleep. The state says - we have fulfilled our obligations. What obligations, to whom? Next, how are you going to determine this new point 3, Mr Petrovic, and I am making contact with points 1 and 2. The first point refers to our Criminal Code, the second point refers to The Hague tribunal's Statute. Does this mean that a person who is allegedly suspected of helping a person, is it understood that the person who committed the crime, suspected of committing a crime, has been accused, and before whom? In The Hague or Serbia? If Serbia has been accused, well, come on, there is some reason to include this, but if that person is indicted in The Hague tribunal, then it is another matter. I think you have a law of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, I think it's a member of 333. A criminal code - an independent criminal offence and a trial for this act does not require special jurisdiction, a court is sufficient, a court of law. The practice of special courts is abandoned. I have to tell you that. They don't exist. Take it easy, Mr. Ristic, now I'll explain everything nicely to you. You were my defender, Mr. Ristic, when it was necessary for posters, and you defended me. No, no, let it go, Mr. Milivoevich, these are serious topics, not for a joke. I'm drawing your attention to one more thing. This so-called rule of 11 bis of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence, which is valid in The Hague tribunal, was the moment when the need to change rule 28, and it is based on the fact that the on-call judge has easily passed over the fact that the indictments that are being filed are incomplete, incorrect and that I don't tell you what's going on in these indictments. There is a danger that, if an individual judge lightly declares the indictment, the UN tribunal's jurisdiction and, in a criminal and legal sense, an insignificant case is established. The Hague tribunal also began to work with criminally-legally insignificant cases, such as Duško Tadic, the first subject. For your information, between 50 and 100 books on Duško Tadic's trial have been published in the world. None of them are affirmative for The Hague tribunal. They're all critical, scientists, minors, cross each other with their left and right hands. Is it possible to apply such rules in The Hague and do so? For your information, this now judge, Ori Alfonse, as it is called, was in Duško Tadic's case a co-conspirator with Vladimir, which Bosko knows better. Judge Ori, as part of the team for the defence of Duško Tadic, wrote a complaint challenging the jurisdiction, i.e. the legality and legitimacy of the UN tribunal, and wrote an extremely good complaint. No distraction existed after several years, but now not as a defender, but as a judge in the tribunal and to say - this is a competent, legal, legitimate body, legal court. You see what this change of opinion, professional opinion is, we are not talking about political etc. You send people there, as one of your own has said, to prove their innocence there. Innocentity is assumed in every man. Whoever's accusing you, he needs to prove that it's your fault and, basically, that's where the innocence is to be proved. Someone there on the defense team calculated -- one false witness from the D.A.'s office doesn't help even 10 real witnesses to the defense. Ten real witnesses to the defense, which are very reasonable, facts about events in place, time, participants, etc., cannot disprove one false witness. There's a category there - a refreshing of the memory of witnesses. They say this witness needs to refresh his memory, he needs to go to recycling. All judges working in The Hague, when they come to their homeland for the weekend, experience the inconvenience of their fellow judges. They baptize themselves with both the left and the right, they say -- how can you apply some rules that don't apply in our country? Whether it's continental or this other system. At our house, she saw a frog bitching, raised his leg, waiting to be shoeed, looking like The Hague tribunal. It's something that's freakish, which is a shame for law, for the history of law. That's what's up with us. Watch how you move on. It's said-- it's a flock. There's a word in our language that's rather affirmative, because it indicates that someone is hiding a Hajduk, who, according to the western criteria, is a William Tel, who is fighting for justice, against those who are oppressing the people, who are robbing etc. How, in our jargon, do you want to judge the flocks? What you have suggested, I would accept, Mr Petrovic, but only on one condition, to refer to everyone suspected of committing a crime under Article 332. - not reporting the crime and the perpetrator. I would say, first of all, Tadic and Kostunica. One was the defence minister, one was the president of the SRJ. All reports of dear Carla del Ponte say that the SRJ was hiding Karadzic and Mladic. I want you to carry out a procedure against them. It's a much more serious crime, although I think there are elements here and for the help of the perpetrator after the crime was committed. Why don't we take that order? Do you want to initiate proceedings against Vladan Batic, because as justice minister, he ordered the district attorney to give up the prosecution of 15 people who were generally known to have committed a crime? Mr Petrovic, look at two Security Council resolutions from 1993, the February one and May one, say this Mayan is important, it was brought on May 25th 1993, on Tito's birthday, when the Statute was adopted. If you look at the reasons for the establishment of The Hague tribunal -- mass rape, mass murder, etc., I just have to say one thing -- in all the procedures that ended before The Hague tribunal, there were 160 and something, I think 108 ended, you have none in which you proved the accuracy of any sentence in that initial report containing the reasons why the Hague tribunal should be established. Now, to be perfectly clear, a few months ago, there was an Italian Foreign Minister, Masimo Dalma. He was prime minister in Italy in 1999, and since the Italians, the people, demonstrated in front of the Avians, were opposed to moving from Italian territory to Serbia, to calm them and the public in Italy, Dalema made a statement - the citizens of Italy, we did not start a war with the SRJ, they started a war with NATO pact, and they began war by killing 300,000 people in Kosovo and Metohija. His statement was published in the paper, very precisely I can tell you - 19 April 1999. When Mr. Dalema was, two months ago, here to convince you that this Ahtisaari plan should be accepted, which you did not ask him - Mr. Dalema, give us evidence of those 300,000 dead. You see that those who pressure you to do something lie to you. A few months after that squeeze, it turns out the truth is on the other side. To be clear, for your sake and for the sake of the public, every crime should be punished, anyone who committed any crime should answer, and there is no dispute. No one can defend anyone who committed a crime. But it has to be in court proceedings, in accordance with the law, and not -- law under the feet, procedure under the feet, let those from abroad dictate judgments, etc. No one can support a violation of the laws and regulations. No one in the National Assembly should put anything unconstitutional into the laws and regulations. How can our court judge and appeal to the UN tribunal's Statute? That's impossible, Mr. Petrovic. It is the same as if we applied the criminal law of Great Britain to events in Serbia, according to Serbian citizens. That's impossible. It's the last change, not the one you're proposing. Article 333. The criminal code refers to an independent criminal offence. Such acts are governed by regular courts. There is no need for these acts to be pulled out and given to the Special Council or to the authorities responsible under this law concerning war crimes. Secondly, Mr Petrovic, the SRJ, which also means Serbia, was represented in July 1998 when the Rome Statute was adopted. We have the status of a Member State of the Parliament of the Roman Statute and you must know that. Ours were also involved in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure and Evidence. Mr Petrovic, that rule of procedure and proof has been passed by the Assembly of the Member States. She has the status of a legislative body. It was not brought by the judges of that permanent court. Furthermore, that congregation also adopted elements of the beings of all these crimes. A little disputed about aggression, but a crime against humanity, a war crime, is an element of the essence of a crime. So the Roman Statute and this regulation reflect international law when it comes to serious violations of international humanitarian law. The procedure is essentially European, ours. If you think you're upgrading our criminal legislation from this area, then use it, not the Statute of the UN tribunal, because it's an act no one can call on. So it was brought by the Security Council, based on Chapter 7. United Nations Charter of Peace Security, ad hoc. So that's what they're calling for, and you won't make much of a mistake. For your information, the Americans signed it and ratified it, so they didn't give ratification instruments, Clinton took a piss. You know who represented America in the negotiations? This is Mr. Meron, who is now the President of The Hague Court. And the Americans are blocking that court, they're not the only ones. They did not block it with bilateral agreements, that their soldiers should not be subject to the Roman statute, they are now blocking it and many states are blocking the court, because they heard that the court's case-law of the UN tribunal could be re-imposed to the court, to future cases. And no one wants to live. Remember one more thing, none of our courts can apply the theory of a joint criminal enterprise. The theory was invented in Nuremberg by the U.S. Department of Defence's attorney, for making it a strategic advantage for the prosecution, because no principle of evidence is respected. Both Americans and the British are giving up the joint criminal enterprise. Our courts can't apply that, and then you put it in touch with rule 11, which provides for the possibility to pass some cases, and be a little more active when the cases are moved or forwarded to the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when it comes to the state republics of Serbia, and there are several. Because, this country, I'm not calling you, but I'm calling the previous minister, she was too passive, because she wasn't fighting for the case because of our citizen. For your information, it's Mitar Harasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7165	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word, and let the Prophet Radet be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7166	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we look back and before we start discussing this law and everything that is related to this law, I just want to point out that I am a wartime military invalid and a war participant in 1990. Indeed, none of us had ever thought of fighting the individualization of responsibility and the punishment of those who committed war crimes, because they, in this way, did the most damage to us who honestly and honestly defended our people and responded honestly to the call of their country. That's all I'd like to say to the viewers, from which aspect I'd like to refer to this law and this whole story about the D.A.'s War Crimes and the D.A.'s Special Branch. Immediately, at the beginning, let me say that the SPS Parliamentary Group and I, as president of the Veterans of Serbia movement, are not able to accept these provisions of the law and this extension of the jurisdiction of this prosecution and this part of the District Court, for several reasons, so I will try to clarify these views in my presentation. As I was saying, this law only has three members, but it does have huge extensions in the field of action, first of all, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. I have to look back on one possibility given by this law. If we expand the work of this prosecution, it is indeed the possibility of a political impact on the country's events. The possible functioning of this prosecution so widely seems to be under the slightest control of all those institutions that should be involved in the protection and control of the work of courts and prosecutors. Why do I come to this conclusion? Because anyone suspected of a war crime and anyone suspected of helping some war criminal in hiding is immediately responsible. There is no possibility that his innocence can be determined, both in The Hague tribunal and so on. It will be an automatic condemnation of society, because 15 years of propaganda, even more than 15 years of propaganda against what we did in the war, leads to social awareness being at such a level that anyone who once mentioned that he was involved in a war crime has already been sentenced to years of imprisonment. The attitude of the defendants and convicted is to the detriment of the Serbs, and that is what I mean by The Hague tribunal. I suppose that's what's going to happen in this prosecution, and in this court, based on what's already been ruled. From what I've read, I think this court and this prosecution, by signing some bilateral agreements, should have helped these prosecutions in judgment, therefore, of their citizens who committed war crimes against Serbs, above all. However, it seems to me that this part of the prosecution's work has not produced any effect so far. I'm going to look back at the tribunal of The Hague, and you'll see later, from my presentation, why you need to make a connection between this prosecution and the UN tribunal, which, truth be told, this prosecution doesn't hide in its reports it sends and there's no reason why we don't do it either. So, first, I'm going to warn you of something that is the practice of the UN tribunal, which is the ratio of the number of convicted citizens of the former SFRJ in The Hague. This relationship is 85% for Serbs, 10% for Croats, and 5% for Muslims. We now have one verdict for Albanians and two acquittals. When these verdicts are translated into years convicted of these crimes, you will see that this relationship is even more unfavourable for the Serbs. Most importantly, it is the level of social responsibility of the people who were judged there, or the social and political elite who were tried in The Hague, because they are only Serbs. So, you don't have a politician of any other state who's been convicted of criminal association and I don't know what everything and all the imaginary crimes in The Hague. It was only the Serbs who responded to one of the presidents of the state, the other president of the state, the ministers, that you probably knew better than me who everything in The Hague tribunal was condemned. It seems to me that by establishing an analogy between this prosecutor's office and the UN tribunal's prosecution, we have the opportunity to see all the possibilities of abuse and political pressure from these special prosecutors and special courts. I'd like to ask one more question, who, at this point and who, later on, or what social class is this law going to judge? Except for the people who participated in the war. The provisions of this law do not fall under deserters, defetists, all those who spoke against war, but solely those who participated in war. I fear, therefore, that the moment at which this law is proposed and in which it is brought about the problem of resolving Kosovo's status, i.e. problems in achieving state sovereignty and territorial integrity. Indeed, this is the way the charges, indictments and convictions were filed, i.e. The Hague tribunal's work should aim at one thing - to deprive Serbs of every defence right and to send each Serb a clear message that he should not fight for his territory. If he fights the most honorable and honest, there is a great danger of being convicted of war crimes afterwards or of having big, big problems. Why is that? It's not such a crucial relationship, it's not a direct consequence of the war crimes committed, it's training and instruction that this larger and the prosecution had in the phase of professional training. The deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, at one point quoted the report given by Mr. Veselin Mrvak, as the deputy prosecutor. He wrote in his report this way - immediately we started with professional training in various forms and forms, through seminars, consultations, education, with the help of the OSCE Office, the Council of Europe, the embassy of individual states, and in the first place the United States, international NGOs, domestic NGOs, primarily, the Fund for Humanitarian Law, and in recent times the Hague Prosecutor's Office. ''The example for the sake of this, the representatives of the Hague Prosecutor's Office, from the point of view of expertise, professionality and efficiency, have highly assessed our actions in one case which they have otherwise given us. Among other things, because we've been processing', and listen to this, this is very interesting, "greater faces than the ones they've marked as suspects." Gentlemen, we have become more Catholic than the Pope. However, there is another part of the quote that I would like to highlight. It is said: "However, the solution to some other out-of-law problems does not depend on us, for example, for the sake of example, allocated funding for current costs for 2005 has been reduced compared to last year and insufficient, so we have been placed in a position", and the whole quote is because of this: "We cover missing funds through some international institutions". It's clear to me that whoever's funding probably has some demands, I'm not sure someone's going to fund the work of an institution like this without asking for anything in return. Why are we now strengthening an institution that, by the logic of things, needs to be weakened, moving towards shutting down and disappearing, because the wars ended 15 years ago, or eight years ago -- since the savage bombing of NATO and the killing of more than two thousand civilians in Serbia? I don't want to draw the conclusion that we're making right now, and that's what we're supposed to do, with a bill like this, that we're about to have some armed conflicts in these territories, so we need to strengthen the institutions of this type, exactly, to prevent unwanted consequences, such as war crimes. I hope that's not true. I sincerely hope so, because as someone who has experienced the horrors of war, who has suffered injuries, I can say that there is no greater horror than that. It is very illogical that at this time, when the UN tribunal closes and completes its work, we formally strengthen our institution, we give it new powers. I don't know what kind of message this is. "Because the uncertain fate of the UN tribunal in 2010 is certain to shut down." I'll read you a quote from the papers, which says, "The UN tribunal's countdown has already begun. According to the SB's decision, it should close the door by the end of 2010. Public accounts of today's court officials, prosecutor Jeffrey Nyss and former spokeswoman Florence Artman, as well as information provided by the Prosecutor's Office by journalists who witnessed the same prosecutor's office, only contributed to the impression that it was an institution of departure, in which the government had some degree of destruction. Perhaps UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon himself, before at the end of December, decides who will succeed Mrs. del Ponte as chief prosecutor, will have to deal with the situation in the Court or, at least, the Prosecutor's Office." I would hate to think that the strengthening of this court's institutions and this prosecution had a role in replacing The Hague tribunal. All of us who participated in the war thought that one danger would be removed from our backs, that is, a possible mortgage and the possibility of judgment for what we were doing. Mr. Minister, I want to commend you. In order to prevent this right now, I have a nice picture of you and the D.A. For what you have stated - that you will help the work of this prosecution through the means of the Justice Department, I would like to commend you. Do you know for what reason? Because I think this will lead to the fact that this prosecution no longer needs the help of NGOs, international institutions, but that it will be financed from budget funds and that it will work more efficiently. Just a few more quotes to tell you, Mr. Minister. It is said that relations in the Prosecutor's Office, this one of ours, have indeed received some elements of relations in the UN Prosecutor's Office. In short, Judge Gordana Bozilovic-Petrovic, now former Council of War Crimes Judge, said "the voice of the public" that the decision not to extend her mandate was made under the influence of a foreign embassy, is not said which, I suppose, all Serbian citizens will know, as well as some NGOs. Also, it doesn't say which, I'm sure you know who they are. She said Sinisa Vasic's decision was away from the trial in the Suva Reka case because the case planned a media anti-state campaign to weaken Serbia's negotiating position on the status of the southern Serbian province. Otherwise, Judge Bozilovic-Peterovic was president of the Council in the Scorpions case. Just to remind you, you know at what point the whole story and the whole Scorpion movie was shown, the moment the International Court of Justice was supposed to pass a verdict on Srebrenica. To leave time for my colleagues, I just want to say this. I have a great desire for the Prosecutor's Office, for war crimes in Croatia, BiH and Kosovo, to mean that UNMIK representatives, for spokesmans and public relations advisers, have Serbs. I'd be very happy if we could make it happen. Anyone who understands, they'll know what I said. Is it possible that in Serbia we cannot find for such functions, for two of the most responsible functions, Serbs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7167	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has expressed its position under the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure through amendments. The bill has three members. We have proposed three amendments, and each reads "wipe" because we think that this law should not exist in legal traffic in Serbia. In today's discussion, I will not speak, nor will my colleague Krasic, too specifically about this law. That's what we'll talk about when it's debated in detail and when we talk about amendments. I will focus more on your goals and your intentions in proposing this law. Through this law, as well as through the basic law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, from the previous government, to this present one, since 2000, has completely ignored the presummation of innocence. You have proposed this law, Mr. Petrovic, among other things, to condemn the Yakats. It's a new term that you use in an ugly sense, and since I was born in Livno, the word "poors" associated me with old man Vujadin, the "damn Lievno" and the people who were very honorable and proud. I feel the same way about these people who, as you say, are "poors" to General Mladic. Believe me, like most citizens, I would be proud if I could be his strength. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you what you're going to do and how you're going to collect all those "jakats" on whose gates there's crying on which it says "safe house for Ratko Mladic"? These are all safe houses for Ratko Mladic. You're free of your laws. I ask you, given the presummation of innocence, we are fellow lawyers, can you say that Ratko Mladic committed a war crime? Mr. Minister, I insist, not like this from the bench, but I insist you say that, so that you could even discuss with me the proposal for this bill of yours. I didn't ask you, you can call as an MP, so once, thank God, someone from the DS comes out to defend the law of one of their ministers. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] So, I'm asking the minister to say if Ratko Mladic committed a war crime, and from that, it follows whether he can have a "jake" or not. It's a very simple question, Mr. Minister. Why are you passing this law? Because you have no confidence in the judges of the district courts, in that honorable part of the court, but you've made special courts, special prosecutions. And that's where the honorable men go from there. You bought them. These are people that the state bribed because it gave them three times the salary of other colleagues, who work equally heavy objects, harder or easier, is not important, but in any case, they're all the same professions, only they didn't all go to school and train in the white world, mostly in America, but only those you put in special courts and special prosecutors. They're guaranteed to give you sharp sentences. That's why you're passing this law, because what's meant to be here already exists in Criminal Law and you didn't have to pass it on to these "specials." What's the point? The point is that you in Serbia, from 2001 to today, are intensively tribunalising the Serbian judiciary. The most responsible for this tribunalisation of the Serbian judiciary are, of course, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. You, Minister, with this law, have become a member of this association to commit a joint criminal enterprise against the citizens of Serbia. Instead of the law, I'm going to get a little closer, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, and to the MPs, this proposal of yours through some specific names and specific cases relating to the work of the Special Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office. Just so my colleague Ristic doesn't warn me, I know it's a district court, a special department, but my colleague Ristic understands me much better when I say a special court, because everyone knows there is a Special Court of War Crimes and a Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. So, who's in charge of this prosecution? A certain Vukkovic, known for that famous sentence, will catch pigeon writers if he finds they carry messages to Ratko Mladic. It's been a long time since then, he doesn't catch the pigeon writers, thank God, nor Ratko Mladic, but he still hopes. This Mr. Vukkovic was a party secretary in the D.A.'s office in his time, and he is known there as a large non-worker, as someone who has never done any serious object. If in any prosecution they say - that's the lazy one, make sure they think of Mr. Vukkovic. Otherwise, he is also known for being officially not, the woman and sister of DS members, and his sister is born on the DS's main board. Of course, I don't think it's supposed to be a flaw for him because unlike you, I don't think it's a mistake for someone to be a member of any party, a party that is defined. Never, unlike you, we don't tell demagogue stories -- this is a non-party personality, this is a non-partisan personality. Whoever you're setting up somewhere, of course it's a party personality. I understand that, it's your present right. Currently, this Mr. Vukkovic is on Hvar. What's he doing there? He's there with prosecutors from an environment where you imagine they're agreeing to exchange war crimes indictees. They made some kind of deal, he on behalf of the Serbian state, that Vukkovic. He is the one in whose hands is fate who knows how many people, for whom someone there on Hvar today will say there is a suspicion that he committed a war crime and Vukkovic will deport him there somewhere, whether Croatia, whether BiH etc. That's right, counterpart Krasic, he's also told that there's no evidence and that none of his colleagues know where he is or whether he's graduated from law school. This is something that's in the story sphere, and I'm not going to say it. Mr. Vukkovic is also known for his statements regarding the "Ovcaru" which he said about war crimes in Zvornik, so these days, so high-minded, he said that the SRS is afraid, that is, as he said, of "Ovcar" and "Zvornik", because of Milan Lanchužanin and Duško Vukovic, as he already called himself, the late man. Do you know what he did then? Since they failed to find any possibility of condemning any SRS volunteer, even Vesko Krstajic, President of the Council in the process, said he was sorry, that he was convinced that two people who were accused, not convicted, who went as volunteers of the SRS to wartime, committed a war crime, but, unfortunately, he cannot prove it. He is still the president of the council today and he is still on trial in that court. Then they formed the object "Zvornik 1" against a group of people from Zvornik. The process lasted from 1995 to today, and they failed to make any connection between any perpetrators, or those crimes in Zvornik, and Vojislav Seselj, or SRS volunteers. Then what did they do? Then last year, on the orders of some Fatima, I can't remember her last name, but I do know that the canton prosecutor in Tuzla has been inaugurated a new procedure -- "Ovcar 2," and Fatima has sent certain statements to serve this council of ours for war crimes. It's the same thing they're trying to plant Vojislav Seselj in The Hague -- statements instead of living witnesses. Of course it's not going to be anything from that job, but that's what citizens will be tracking through RTS, thank God, soon, so they'll see what it looks like. They will, they will, if you don't want to watch, you change the channel, but most in Serbia will, they will. He doesn't want to see the King. He says he will? Everyone will watch, everyone wants to sign, but forbidded Tadic to sign because they know that the appearance of Vojislav Seselj will significantly raise the SRS rating, which is anyway, thank God and thank the citizens of Serbia, very high. What else is characteristic of this court? Since recently, newspapers have been writing, they have fought bloodyly and have fought to make the adviser of this Vuckovic become Mrs Biserka Zivkovic. Why were they fighting? Because, God, it was an expert, so she had to be asked to beg her to become a counselor. Then they say in the paper that she's famous for being a professor. She was a professor when she graduated law school, so for a certain time, at a school in Nis, she taught. Of course, it's totally fine. Then it is said - it is also known for being a director in a business organization in Nis, in a successful organization. Biserka Zivkovic was a market manager in Nis. Also, I don't mind. The point is that Biserka Zivkovic is Zoran Zivkovic's wife. When Zoran Zivkovic was a federal minister, then Biserka Zivkovic at the republican level was secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, right? That's right. Well, then, when Zoran Zivkovic became prime minister, so that Biserka Zivkovic would not remain in heaven or on earth, and was already chairman of the Management Board of the Official Messenger, then, believe it or not, as chairman of the Management Board of the Official Messenger was admitted to a permanent working relationship and was in a working relationship as chairman of the Management Board of the Official Messenger. Now, how do co-operation with The Hague tribunal be paid off, how do some people get paid, individually? I don't have much time, but I'm going to give you a few specific examples. You remember that minister, and today the minister, only in the second portfolio, called him the stewardess minister, is the one who flew to The Hague every week and sent Serbs to The Hague, Minister Loncar, to know who it was. From the modest ministerial salary, Minister Loncar, ever since he started flying to The Hague, managed to buy a large apartment in Novi Sad, he also managed to buy a good car, C-5, something I don't understand, but they say it's very expensive, so he managed to buy a business space in Novi Sad, and then he opened a foreign language school in Novi Sad. So, obviously, good job. Furthermore, Bruno Vekaric, it is one that appears so significantly every evening, frowns, as someone very smart, on small screens. Bruno Vekaric is a spokesman for this special prosecutor's office, and now I'm going to tell you how his job paid off. First of all, this is a criminal report, so I'm going to read you some information about Bruno Vekaric and please just don't get me wrong. I pray that the citizens of Serbia don't get me wrong about what I'm going to read, how much it's allowed to read. "The first municipal prosecutor's office in Belgrade, on June 22, 2000, a criminal charges were filed against Vekaric Vatroslav, which is Bruno's father, "from Father Stjepan and Mother Vesna, born in 1944, some date, in Dubrovnik, Croatia". I don't want to read the mother number. Belgrade, the address, I don't want to read. "Citizen of Serbia-Montenegro. Nationality - Croatian, schoolkeeping - Dr. science, interest - politician, professor of the University, employed at the Institute of International Politics and Economy. ''This institute for international politics and economy, where Mr Vekaric worked, is the place of the execution of the crime for which criminal charges were filed. "The object of the attack - Public procurement law, execution time - from September 2003 to 30.03.2004. Not to add, '500 thousand, 770, 770, etc., damaged - Institute of International Politics and Economy, Macedonian number 25.' Why does his dad matter? Because Bruno Vekaric graduated from high school and a higher administrative school, then, thanks to Vojino Dimitrijevic, who was a colleague of the Institute's dad, Bruno Vekarić came to the Faculty of Law in a voluntary way. Mr Batic hired him at the justice ministry when he became minister, there was a ministerial assistant and until then no one alive but the family's ropes knew about him. Since then, Mr. Vekaric, especially as he became a spokesman for The Hague's Prosecutor's Office and as he takes off with statements that fly out on TV every night, bought a large apartment at the Limes hall, and there he bought a business space. Says the people who were in that apartment, I'm not, that apartment looks like some spaceship. They say you press a button, and then the whole kitchen shows up, and when that button comes back, it's a wall. They say they didn't see what Bruno Vekaric had in the movie either. Then there is business space at the Trade Court, co-owned with Vladna Batic, they say. Next, Bogdan Stankovic. He's Deputy Vukkovic, this "main Hague prosecutor," I say, in The Hague, even though he's here because he is a Hague prosecutor. This Bogdan Stankovic asked The Hague tribunal to provide false witnesses against Vojislav Seselj. To this end, Patrik Lopez Tere and a certain Zdrlic, who was told to you today by Mr. Vukic and will speak again when he comes here. The Zdrlic, by the way, is a Ustasha and is a representative of The Hague tribunal in Belgrade. Of course, there are both Natasa Kandic and Sam Lazaro on the team and they are doing everything to get false witnesses against Vojislav Seselj. We of the defence team of Vojislav Seselj have not sat down, we have come to these people, that is, these people to us. We got a lot of information. Mr. Vojislav Seselj has initiated criminal proceedings for disrespecting the Court of Justice against Carla del Ponte, Daniel Saxon, based on 34 certified statements by people who have been tortured and harassed in the worst possible way, where -- on Jevrem Grujic Street, in Belgrade. I asked, this is the answer to my parliamentary question by Minister Jocic, i.e. I said that we have the knowledge that in the street of Jevrem Grujic there are rooms in which the UN tribunal investigators are staying, that people are being brought there to be false witnesses in the Hague case against Vojislav Seselj. According to information obtained from these people, who have certified their statements with competent courts, there are also some detention units in those rooms, because they have people there for 4-5 days to eventually act to sign a statement against Vojislav Seselj, who is wanted of them. Among other things, what Minister Dragan Jocic says to me: "In line with the Law on Ministrys, the affairs of the state administration concerning the security of certain persons and objects, including foreign diplomatic representations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is carried out by the Ministry of Interior." Is it possible, Mr Petrovic, that the case in Jevrem Grujic is 11 foreign diplomatic representations, and if so, which states is foreign diplomatic representation? Further, says Jocic: "The Ministry of the Interior does not have information, or knowledge that there are detention units in that facility, as well as that persons in the same facility are being held for several days. 'The Ministry doesn't have any data. The Serbian Radical Party has data. Serbian citizens have data. I made all this, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, of course, and because of the MPs I call not to vote for this law, as SRS MPs will not vote for this law. I think that on the basis of what I have said, all those who have listened today and who are monitoring the work of this parliament fully understand that there is a joint criminal enterprise against the citizens of Serbia, under the supervision of the UN tribunal, that in Serbia its leaders are Kostunica and Tadic, and that they are members of ministers in the government, both in this and in the previous one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7169	Thank you. The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Jadranko Vukovic be prepared. Mr. Jovanovic, you have six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7170	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard what the SPS has to do with this amendment and the addition of the law. I'll try to be brief within the time available and give some of my reviews and opinions. We had this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings in preparation 2003, 2004 and 2005 and in principle were regulated issues of organisation, jurisdiction and authority of the state authorities and their organisational units for the detection, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences. As we have heard here today, in the opening statement, from the minister, today's proposal to amend and supplement the law only extends the authority's jurisdiction when it comes to the prosecution of war crimes offenders. We have seen the reasons for the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and, in principle, concerns the extension of jurisdiction and, possibly, some damage that the authorities will have to deal with when the law is passed. We haven't heard here today the real reasons why this law was passed, and that's why the SPS won't support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. What has characterized the last decade of the HH century is the presence of civil war, involving all the nations and ethnicities living in the former republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The obligation was for everyone, first of all, to process all those who committed war crimes. I want to point out, not to realize that the SPS supports war crimes offenders, that our position is that everyone, including ourselves, should be brought to justice by those who have committed war crimes, to receive the proper punishment. Our judiciary prepared for this kind of work. There are international regulations, there are also our domestic regulations, but at a meeting organised at the Faculty of Law, we heard certain findings, even in 2005, even though these laws were passed in 2003 to 2005, that our legislation was not in line with international law and that certain institutions, which, above all, worked on data collection and the discovery of war crimes offenders, were not trained for such a kind of work, so they resorted to certain consultations, seminars, etc., with the cooperation of certain international institutions, the US Embassy, NGOs, both domestic and foreign. I ask the question is whether these bodies, which will receive these powers, will be independent in their work? We should not doubt them, but I ask the question -- will there be independence in the work of these bodies at all, given that we have experience in the Hague tribunal, when it comes to the international community? I don't think the international community has had the right treatment for all the former republics, especially our citizens, or the Republic of Serbia. I also want to point out that the SPS cannot agree with apologized for the crimes committed, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. I agree, you should apologize, but you should also have reciprocity when it comes to this apology, because crimes have been committed by citizens of all republics. Also, I want to particularly apostrophe one fact here. Our authorities have boasted, or the Prosecutor's Office, that they have prosecuted, or prosecuted, even more war crimes procedures than the UN war crimes tribunal requires, according to the criteria. Is this what our authorities need, and, on the other hand, the international community does not put pressure on us as it does on the processing of war criminals in the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? Here I want to ask again, what, first of all, about Operation Storm, Flash, what about Atif Dudakovic, what about Voluntary Street, what about Slovenian territorial defense activities? I wonder if the other republics are doing what our state authorities do. I don't think they do it in that degree where we do it. So the SPS is afraid that behind all this, when all these processes are over, there are still no new challenges that await this country. For these reasons, and for the reason that we haven't heard the right explanation, the SPS can't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7171	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jadranko Vukovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, because it is very difficult to speak after Mr Krasic, but I will point out some facts why this law should not be supported. I have carefully analysed what the government is proposing, so I have noticed that this bill has been imposed as well as the one discussed in the Serbia-Montenegro community, the Law on Measures against the Assets of War Crimes Indictees. Obviously, this law was also ordered by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and has a specific objective for which it is being brought. In the reasons for the law being passed, the Proposer says: "The proposed amendments and additions to the law extends the jurisdiction of the authorities provided for by this law and to the criminal offence of the perpetrator after the offence has been committed, in case of war crimes" etc. Mr. Minister, you are certainly aware that in our Charter of Minority Rights, the European Declaration of Human Rights and other international documents, it is written that no one can be found guilty until it is determined by a judicial and judicial decision. Such a bill would therefore be a precedent in legal theory and legal practice and would apply only to our citizens. This once again proves that we are slowly becoming third-class citizens and that guaranteed human rights do not apply to our citizens. Such a law would never be passed by one America, or France, which means that if we have any self-respect, we don't need to adopt it either. It would be a completely different situation if it were to be done with judicial judgments. This law represents a courtship for world powers, whose main exhibits are Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, who will at all costs allow himself to be experimented with elementary legal standards, which agree to the humiliation of the country and which do not disturb the shackled and tied officers in another country. You remember our officers were both shackled and tied up in another country. We need to stop this kind of serviality and not meet, absolutely, all the requirements, if we want to preserve basic self-respect, but to adhere to universally adopted standards and principles. Dear colleagues, you are aware that our state has passed the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal, has accepted the obligation to arrest and deliver its citizens, which has been confirmed several times, as almost all political and state leadership is in The Hague. There's no need to go any further than that, because that would be below the line of tolerance. While you here, I think of the promoter and the people who will support this bill from this high home, you are dealing with this issue, which the state body in the war crimes procedure, officials of the Republic of Croatia, saw this the other night, Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, question the law on Croatia's co-operation with The Hague over the sentence of the 'Vukovar Troika', Mrksic, Sljivancanin and Radic. I ask you what our state authorities, from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the ambassadors in the Netherlands, have done to our citizens who, contrary to the Constitution, have been extradited to The Hague Court, except by being granted them an advance sentence, and, as you know, other countries, specifically Croatia, are not citizens, but are freeing criminals and helping them in every way possible. Professor Vojislav Seselj has been fighting the war in The Hague for nearly five years, and no state body is doing anything, nor is he responding at all. As you know, Professor Vojislav Seselj himself went to The Hague, towards him the most rigorous measures, and Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic are wise to remain silent and, according to our knowledge, secret diplomacy, do everything to make sure that Prof. Vojislav Seselj never returns to the country. Is this the most important thing now, or is it, perhaps, your intention, I mean the bill, to prepare for your new arrests? Why are we now bringing this, when known, Mr. Minister, that the duration of The Hague Court is at hand by the end of 2008? It is obvious that our ministers are courting those who bombed our country and they are not at all interested in Serbian citizens in The Hague. It is obvious that these authorities are intruding from them, such as the leader of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, whom Serbian citizens would certainly want to see on the country's most responsible duties, above all, because of his ability, honorable and patriotic attitude towards the country and the citizens of Serbia. In the end, I would like to draw your attention that when the SRS comes to power, and you are aware that this will soon happen, instead of these laws, will pass a law that will deal with your responsibility for all that you have not done to our citizens in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7173	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic, then Maras Slobodan, Vladan Batic and Zoran Krasic reported. Here you go. They're not here all day, they're here now, so they called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, President, reporting under Article 225, the subject is the same as today, this scandalous show that was broadcast last night on the first RTS programme. The LDP thanks the distinguished colleagues and colleagues for today responding to this event and for supporting our initiative to condemn this kind of behaviour from this place, from the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to the strongest extent possible. The Gender Equality Committee has done one very important thing, they unanimously initiated the request for Mr. Aleksandar Tijanic's resignation. This is important because this committee has shown a high degree of responsibility and awareness of what its impact on the position of women in Serbia is. He also showed that there are topics that indeed all MPs in this House can be unique. This is what LDP is constantly talking about, people's lives, how people in Serbia live, what are their daily problems, these are topics that cannot be slow about and where we really need to be unique. Meanwhile, Mr. Tijanic has returned, saying that tonight we will have a chance to see the sequel to this show, which says the groom sincerely regrets and apologizes for the fact that this slapping, or how they define this violence, has happened. The LDP didn't convince us that, but even if that slapping was really the last thing that happened in that relationship, that kind of behavior model shouldn't be promoted at the national service. You know, in Serbia, there are many NGOs and activists and activists who are fighting violence against women and a broadcast of this kind of show seems devastating to what these people are doing. The LDP advocates a policy of equal chances for all people in Serbia, regardless of their gender and nationality. We show it today, we show it, and we'll always show it. What we did today wasn't done because, well, we wanted to attract attention, we didn't even expect it, and the reactions like this really encouraged us to do what we did. Most political parties in this parliament say they advocate European integration, and that is fine, and we are one of those political parties, but we will not have European Serbia until we have a European system of values in it. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this system of values, one of its postulates, is also nonviolent behavior between people. It seems to me, and to the LDP, that we've all really taken a big step in this direction today to change that system of values in this country that we live in. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7175	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras, then Dr Vladan Batic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President Dulic, you are the last person in this assembly room who can tell anyone he wasn't in this room, so now he's here. Well, you are the most missing person from the assembly sessions and, indeed, I think it is inappropriate for you to comment on the announcement of other MPs in the Rules of Procedure from where you are sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7177	Mr. Maras, unlike you, I am also involved in other affairs that are related to the functioning of this assembly and believe me that every day, all day, here, only Mr. Krasic is longer than I am in this assembly, if Mr. Krasic agrees. Don't complain to me, especially when you know very well that the Assembly worked without a problem, so you walked in and you called in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although you didn't participate in the work at all. That's all I noticed. Here, here, you have a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7178	Mr. Dullich, you must know that we are doing something in this congregation. So if we're not in this room right now, we're at the Parliament Club, and we're doing jobs that are also important for the work of the Assembly. I'd go back to what I answered, so, uh, 225 and 226. After today's release of LDP MP Milena Stankovic, you were witnessing that the Director of Public Service, Mr. Tijanic, for who knows which time, in a vandal manner addressed the MPs of this assembly and characterised their work, which is not his job. His reaction was reduced, i.e. two key comments - that there was terror in the Rules of Procedure and that the show that was seen yesterday was a socio-psychological analysis. Also, Mr. Tijanic found it appropriate to rephrase that show at 14.40 p.m. and to give the citizens and children a chance to see what everyone would normally call domestic terror, or domestic violence, and those shows were released yesterday, on the International Day of Combating Violence, that is, the International Day of Non-violence. I'd like to tell you who the person who said terror was being committed in the Rules of Procedure. That's the JUL Minister, I know there are a lot of colleagues here who participated in the 1996 demonstrations, which in 1996, at the Pevac pub, paid the police for beating the protesters. When he was a minister, he said at the cabinet's session that the protesters need to be treated communally, and you all know what that means. It's a person who insults women in their public appearances. This morning, I quoted one of his statements from 1998 that women are charlains. There's a lot of worse statements that we can't quote here. What's the matter with Mr Tijanic? Mr. Tijanic has one top employer, one who pays him and doesn't like to be heard in this assembly hall that he's part of the mob, or that he's the boss of the mob, that the man who puts the citizens in such a situation because he likes to have a monopoly over everyone in this country. It's Mr. Miskovic. Citizens are certainly aware that because of Mr. Miskovic and his monopoly behaviour, they pay more expensive products than others in our environment. Mr. Tijanic has been an associate of all possible services for the past 20 years. A man who admired only one woman, Miri Markovic, a man who tried to degrade the MPs in all ways, to take advantage of their work and who yesterday took advantage of the opportunity not to transfer the press conference to CESID, for the simple reason, precisely because of what we are talking about, his boss Miskovic, and everything else the LDP is doing. He used it to keep his mouth shut, and he'd better be quiet any time now than he'd come out like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7179	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7180	... and insult the Messengers. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7181	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, then MP Zoran Krasic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226 - I ask for an explanation from the RTS Management Board, from the Minister of Culture, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the Republican Broadcasting Agency, about something that is absolutely inappropriate, and what makes, by its actions and inaction, its gestures, everyday, in various ways, the Director of Public Service Aleksandar Tijanic. I'd like to say something, while I'm here, about the current law. The truth is, I must proudly tell you that I am the creator of the basic law on war crimes trial. Just a little attention, so you can hear the motives. It's precisely because of the great controversy over the proceedings in The Hague, because of the story that selective justice was being conducted there, because it was high time to go through moral catharsis and to admit that some of our countrymen, in our name, committed crimes and to realize that Serbia couldn't have a future as long as its foundations were soaked with other people's blood, and that those crazy minds that scattered corpses in every river, bars, lakes, had to be found on the defendant's bench, in the name of our children's future, was the idea of trying to show that we've been through that moral catharsis, that we've reached that level of consciousness, that such criminals who have dirtyed our light history should be branded, that we judge them. I must say, that's when the whole world welcomed it, but even if it was, even, preliminaryly agreed, that four generals should be tried here. Such an agreement was made, but a new government came with Minister Stojkovic, who immediately said he would abolish the Special Court of War Crimes, with a controversy in this parliament to immediately allocate some money to the Slobodan Milosevic family, and it immediately fell into the water. As far as this law is concerned, I'm not sure whether the intentions are genuine or if there is some hypocrisy in these messages to the UN tribunal, that we will take some more measures, because the UN tribunal is awaiting a definitive epilogue. We're not interested in these stories. If the proposer's intention is sincere, I think it can be supported, that it can be accepted, because there are no human rights violations here, listening opportunities, recording, tracking, it exists in countries with a much longer democratic tradition and in much more orderly legal systems...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7183	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7184	... I'm done. Therefore, it is no heresy and no violation of human rights. Even, truth can contribute to the realization of some proceedings, I repeat, in front of our courts. Unfortunately, in this segment, human rights are being violated in another way. Here for years the current government, through secret services, has been tracking, recording and listening, without any approval from the prosecution or the court, of political insinuation. Since I'm out of time, tomorrow I'm going to continue on what I've been through, no court, no prosecutor, no law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7185	I'm asking you, Mr. Batic, that you didn't sign up as a speaker, since your MP group has 13 minutes and 12 seconds, enough to discuss this law. So that you don't report to the Rules of Procedure, we can put you on the speaker list, so you can pick up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7186	Thank you. I wasn't there, but not for those reasons you mentioned. I think it's quite inappropriate, Mr. President, to comment on who, as much as how it works. I say that on behalf of the DHSS, because if we were to run a work analysis, it can only be done on the basis of results, and the results of your work and the Presidency of this Parliament are, unfortunately, very bad. Oh, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7187	Thank you very much. I'll put you on the speaker list. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7188	Mr. Dulic, that's Article 226. I think that, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the MPs, some clarification is needed. Article 226 speaks of an explanation. It comes down to the same thing. Of course, I expect an explanation from Mr Petrovic, but even if that explanation does not follow, I do not blame Mr Petrovic, because you will see from my question what it is, so I think he can't even answer that question. It is known that the holders of these judicial functions in the broadest sense should not comment on current court cases and should not in their work handle any policy, but, above all, on the law and law and certainly should not perform in public with political comments. I'm just telling you, I think you do, too, because all the media published it, this war crimes prosecutor, some Vukcevic, is very often calling out for political comments. Not only does it make political comments, but it also comments on current items, usually what 'goes to investigate', is not said. He recently said that the Radicals are offensive in the Assembly, collecting cheap political points, it's itchy, about "Ovcaru" and "Zvornik", that there's a need to itch them, etc. Except I think it's illegal for one prosecutor, I'd just like to draw your attention to the fact that the SRS has never commented on an ongoing court case. We could have commented on these side effects, extrajudicial influences on our judiciary and criticised it, and that's what we're going to do. And today, in the follow-up, probably tomorrow, we'll always do it. What concerns me is a kind of silence over the fact that there is complete evidence of human rights violations of the defendants. Mr. President, the trial of Vojislav Seselj was announced for November 7th and, I don't know if you know, the prosecution hasn't revealed 600,000 pages of material yet. So there are 400,000 sides that they say are accusing, and 207,000 pages that the prosecution, or Carla del Ponte, says are liberating for Vojislav Seselj. Can you imagine 600,000 pages, how much space that is? You see, and no one raise their voice and say, well, wait for the people, what kind of trial is that, has the defendant been informed of all aspects of the charge against him? So does he know what he needs to defend himself from? He doesn't know the names of the witnesses, they're all under some protection, he's running a case against Carla del Ponte and two others from the D.A.'s office, because they illegally did an act of contempt, which is also a criminal act. That would be, about us, a crime against justice. In The Hague, it is a contempt of the Court, because justice is being disrupted. I'm done, Mr. Dulic, enough of what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7189	The word of the messenger of the people is Bojidar Koprivica; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7190	Dear Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure has only three members, including a member who regulates the entry into force of this law. In practice, the law only has two members, so let the public know what laws you make and how you boast about how many laws you have passed. So you've passed a law with three members, or two, but a law with evil intentions. Article 1 of this Act regulates which criminal offences should be subject to this law, which are criminal acts referred to in Articles 370 to 386. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. This includes crimes - genocide, not to list all other crimes, war crimes against the civilian population, all the way to the crime - the aggressive war of Article 386. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, there are a large number of crimes, that is, 16 crimes that fall within a group of crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law. By amending and supplementing this law, this law is applied for the detection, prosecution and trial of 16 crimes that fall under crimes against humanity and international law, which can be characterized as compliance with the Criminal Code, which entered into force on 5 October 2005. But, Mr. Minister, it's inexplicable and inadmissible, from the point of view of the profession, that this law applies to a criminal offence after a felony has been committed, therefore, from Article 333. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. Given the very large and wide disposition of the beings of this criminal act, this work has a form of helping the person not to be discovered, which in practice can be a variety of actions, the giving of accommodation, the movement of the security authorities, then, the giving of money, clothing, as well as data and a series of other actions, so it is very difficult to separate the actions that make up the being of this criminal act, and thus, in practice, many abuses are possible. Is it possible, in order to assist the perpetrator after the crime, to characterise it if someone has given a Serbian hero, General Mladic, a glass of water or a cabbage head? Of course not, but this criminal DOS government has arrested and such, although the called experts knew that this crime requires imagination, and it is a direct imagination, and it contains both consciousness and will to prevent the discovery of the crime and the perpetrator, well, if someone has given the head of the dome to General Mladic, you know that there is no imagination, and there is no criminal act. Also, you should know, and I think you know, pretend you don't know, that to imagine this crime, it is necessary to establish that the aide and motivated that the perpetrator is not discovered, which has not been done so far, but that innocent people who were tried by this DOS regime have been arrested. So because of the very wide disposition of the crime, it's hard to determine the being of a criminal act, because it's a set of special elements that make it a crime that doesn't differ much from the other part. Therefore, this law must not be allowed to be applied and to assist the perpetrator after a criminal offence has been committed, because specialised authorities, prosecutors and judges, who have special powers, will abuse and prosecute innocent people, for the sake of alleged efficiency, by using the witnesses of their associates and special powers, according to that people's -- if they are witnesses, the cow is ours. Honorable MPs, in their long history, defending their integrity, the Serbian people were constantly faced with crimes, although they did not give cause for it. The society of the people in World War I only gave recognition to Serbia and its army, because it strictly adhered to the customs of war. You are hastening to judge those who defended our country, and you do not think to judge those who, without cause, brought down our country, settled into NATO's terrorist organisation, and you have declared the country's defense a crime. That hellish killer, The Hague tribunal, is a court for you. The courage of our president on that world stage of injustice has impressed the whole world. These evil people, who judge him, will be remembered as the product of a crazy time, which has surprised the people of the monster, such as Clinton, Blair and the other scum we thought belonged to long ago. History, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, will record Dr Vojislav Seselj as one of the rare heroes of the winners of the murderers, who committed their misdeeds against the Serbs under the company "Merciful Angel" and thus defiled everything that is sacred and human. Today, along with Vojislav Seselj, there is a whole free-liberal humanity, and soon the time will come for his triumphant return, following the successful defence of the attacked and accused Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7191	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, under article 93 and Article 95. The Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov. Mr. Vladan Batic, give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing one again in a series of laws that are not at all interesting to the citizens of Serbia. And you know for a fact that we've been discussing a whole series of laws that we've been going through in the last few days for certain reasons. If it were a benefit to the people and to the citizens of this country, if it weren't only for certain individuals, then that would be fine. We have already heard the opinion of Serbian radicals here today, who have made it clear that they will not support such a pointless law from the legal point of view. I think it's clearly explained why and how. It's a little strange when a minister of justice comes here in the government, a ruling coalition, and he's proposing and defending any law, which is the same government and government minister who doesn't adhere to either the Constitution or the law. We don't have a Constitutional Court, we don't have the laws they were required under the Constitutional Law to bring them, or all of us, to the first regular session of this House. There's been a story, until now, that he's always the president of the assembly, and he's constantly nameless, and he's clearly said that the government doesn't send laws. Therefore, you, who generate an unconstitutional order and are now proposing some laws, have no credit to trust you with anything. You see, Minister, you came out here recently, so you defended the suspension of the Criminal Code and requested a stay until 1 January 2009. Why is this law controversial? You explained, in public, that for two reasons, he caused disputes, mostly because of human rights violations. What rights? It has just been listening to both audio and visual recording that has caused a major controversy, which is still going on, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not, as well as the protection of the witness associates. You know that well. Now it's a little weird, when we have the Criminal Code, to suspend until we get rid of this stuff. When it comes to Special Court and another group of citizens, then we can do whatever we want. It's, at the very least, two-faced. I don't want to use medical terms, no need. Here you have shown me a very interesting and strange thing, I have listened carefully, you have said that, unfortunately, and you have held a political lecture here, you have not treated this proposal professionally. I don't mind. We, radicals, certainly don't blame you for that. You said that unfortunately, with us regular courts are unable to qualify and sanction war crimes. Here's a stenogram, I wrote it right. A heavy charge for our judiciary. If that's true, what does that mean? So special judges have to prosecute special cases, and for the rest of the people and citizens, those who aren't able to. That's what you said about this pay phone. We'll get a stenogram, then you'll see. Can you be the first man of justice and defend them, when you have that opinion of your colleagues and of your courts, we don't get into that either. But with this legal proposal, you are now entering a violation of human rights. Your colleague told you nicely about the presummation of innocence and what that instrument means. You brutally disrupt him and violate him with such a proposal. This criminal code, which was passed in 2005 and we talked about not being good, you suspended exactly so that human rights would not be violated, and here we can violate human rights, it's allowed here. It won't be allowed. A few things about The Hague tribunal. It's a political creation, it's a court that's in ruins today. Open up "Politika", quoted a fellow member of the SPS parliamentary group as saying in yesterday's "Politicals", an interview by Carla del Ponte. You see, in his book, Florence Artman says he's a spy, you see that he's saying the same thing about them, you see that they're now revealing all the dirt that's been planted in that court. You now want, as Mr Krasic has told you, to introduce the codification of that court in an illegal manner into our legal system and to legalize it. That's what you want. We do not agree with that and we believe that most citizens do not agree. You don't mind that Vojislav Seselj has been sitting in the UN tribunal for five years and violating fundamental human rights. You'll never raise your legal voice, and the legal principles are universal, you know that well, the Charter of Human Rights, that I don't read to you. That's the first thing you need to know, the law above the law. You will never stand up and seek the protection of the rights of a Serbian citizen who is brutally violated by human rights. Why? For two reasons. Because you're ideologically scarred, that's first, that's what you're saying, and this bill is on the wings of that political acuity and brought in. There's another thing, uniformity. We know well that those who support The Hague tribunal and who work here in his interest are well paid. This book says how you are paid and how you are recruited, you who confess and who swear to The Hague tribunal. I don't have time and I won't read it to you, but we'll read it, there's time, and we'll prove that Radovanovic, of the communist party secretary, has now become chief associate with Carla del Ponte. It says here and it's clear. Here are the sums of money he invested and invested the West in order to have a situation like this. So, we're against this, we're raising our vote, and we're not voting for this. All righteous people will also be against it. Once a lawyer wouldn't let a professional ethic suggest something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7193	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic appeared, and let MP Petar Jojic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7194	Article 226. Probably Mr. Petrovic can't answer what I'm about to ask as a question right now. Mr. Petrovic, it's a rumor, and I'd like to share it in some way, that Bruno Vekaric, this special spokesman, is all made up by his father. Last night, for a wonderful miracle, he showed a great deal of decency, unlike his boss. He was, I guess, the first lawyer, and then he graduated, thanks to his father's friendship with Vojin Dimitrievich. You can check it out, and it's not, in the end, that important. I am interested in whether what is said to be true is that Mr. Vukcevic has a daughter who works in Italy, at some company in Hamovic. Why do I ask you that? I see you're surprised, I was amazed when I got that information, so I want to check it out. What's this about? We really need to figure out what the motives of this Mr. Vukčević, who, on behalf of one party, was at the head of all the prosecutors of his day, are, in fact, disturbing him more often to show such anxiety in his work and unprofessionalism. I don't want to challenge Mr. Batic's replicas, he explained everything. What Mr Batic said and explained, if put into the context of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to this Law, then, Mr Petrovic, the conclusion is that Zoran Zivkovic is responsible. That's how it works out for Batic. Why? Zoran Zivkovic had the courage to say Carly del Ponte - I will not take charges, I am the Prime Minister, give them to someone else. Everyone attacked him for it. Just to remind you, the first rally in support of a police officer was in Serbia at the end of 2003, remember, when the police demonstrated, they did not allow the general to go to The Hague. It's all contradictory of what Mr Batic said. His very thought of making something special because it's not ordinaryly capable, it's pointless, because, yet, this larger one applies our regulations. The judges will not take hold of the UN tribunal's statutes, that tomorrow someone calls them for what they do, but they stick to the principles of legality in their work, no matter what we think of these judges, how they judge, what they do, etc. (From O.R.: Time. I've got time, don't worry. Enjoy. I think it would be good for you to answer, if that's the case, then Batic would be responsible, and he was covering up the defendant. The great feller of this law within the meaning of Article 333 is the time when an act of Article 333 was carried out and the territory in which it was carried out. That member is completely inapplicable from the point of view of this special council and the special prosecutor. Some positive effect, in terms of prosecution, will not be achieved, will absolutely not be achieved. You're aware of that. There are fundamental, essential problems of Article 333 in this law, if those provisions are incorporated, unless all those provisions that I have quoted are previously incorporated, which are far more difficult than that provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-03-0.u7195	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. We interrupt the session here. Continuation is tomorrow, 10 o'clock. In turn, MP Petar Jojic and MP Aleksandar Vukic remained, and the SRS parliamentary group remained for 33 minutes. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 national MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borka Vukic, Nada Kolundžija and the MPs participating in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as MP Ivan Andric and Radovan Radovanovic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Organization and Oversight of State Organs in the War Crimes Procedure (head debate) The word has a National MP, Petar Jojic, and be prepared by Aleksandar Vucic. Here you go.
