ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u562	Ladies and gentlemen, I guess we're different by a lot of things, but I think we're at the same wavelength. Today is May 9th, Victory Day against the greatest evil of the 20th century - Fascism, and I want to congratulate all the citizens of this country this great day. It's the day that all democratic, progressive patriotic forces defeated that greatest evil on the globe of the Earth. Once again, happy Victory Day May 9th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u563	Have all the heads of Parliament used their rights, do any of the other bosses want a word? He doesn't want to. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF SERBIA I am opening a search with regard to candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u564	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not comment on candidates for the vice-presidents proposed by the parliamentary groups from the ranks of their members. It is a practice in the National Assembly and the vice president of the National Assembly are selected from the ranks of parliamentary groups that have a number of MPs, corresponding to their size. I believe that it is the right of each parliamentary group to propose a candidate for Vice-President and if we go into commenting on the proposal, both for vice-presidents and board members, we would probably never, apart from the parliamentary majority, choose candidates who belong to parties that do not make up the parliamentary majority. That's what I wanted to say about the part of yesterday's discussion that just referred to the question of whether the quality of the candidates should be discussed. For us from the Democratic Party, this is all a very serious topic and you know that our fundamental commitment, the goal of our political action at this point, is the main strategy, that all our forces are directed towards Serbia becoming part of the European Union. We do not think that, as one colleague said, the European Union is ideology. The European Union is an existing political value system. To remind only my colleague Dacic, it is nice to remember that today is Victory Day and I join the congratulations on a significant date for world history. Today, at the same time, Europe Day and, also, in that sense, we should celebrate it, because we are part of Europe, at least geographically and culturally, if not politically. So at this point, the European Union is a political creation and a complex system of organisation of European countries, which is governed by certain standards. According to these standards, citizens in these countries live far better than the citizens of our country. We are sure that Serbia can reach standards in all areas of social life such as that in developed Western countries and, accordingly, it can be part of this great family of peoples. We just need to try a little bit here and be a little less demagogues, more practical, and realize that all of our actions are, in fact, focused on what's concrete, and that's a better life for our citizens. I respect the ideas and the President of the Assembly, as well as consistency, above all, the President of the Assembly and all those who think that Europe is not our way and that our place cannot be in the European Union. But I must say that I disagree, because I find it unsustainable for the longer term that the country on these meridians, in this part of the world, is leading a policy contrary to its neighbours and the rest of Europe. So, it is simply an illusion to think that you can provide your fellow citizens with a better life and greater respect for your country and nation, so that you can make it possible for the International Community to, at the very end of the line, that you can protect national and national interests unless you are compatible with that desirable political and security system called the European Union. For two thousand years, Serbian citizens have defined themselves in the elections that Serbia's right path will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u565	Mr. Markovic, please. I have to stop you for half a minute and I have the right to do that, please. In the past, this congregation has declared its accession to the European Union. This topic was on the agenda. The assembly voiced its commitment to the European Union by a majority. That point has been discussed, it's been voted on. Please, if it's possible, we're talking about what's on the agenda. You'll keep talking, I'd just like to, for the sake of the other MPs, to know that this really isn't on the agenda. It can be whenever you want, although it's already been discussed, if someone has changed their attitude in the meantime, but I don't see the need to say this morning that it's the right of parliamentary groups to propose vice presidents and board members, that you don't want to discuss it and that you start a discussion about something else. It's really not right. Go ahead, continue, but still respect at least a bit of planned agenda and a point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u566	Mr. President, I think that by the end of my presentation you will understand why I am going this way, so I suppose you will apologize for having misunderstood me, but I welcome your wish that today the Assembly, unlike yesterday, will work on the Rules of Procedure and I hope you will have the same arches, both for us from the opposition and for the representatives of the DSS and your party. So we want that road, whose foundations were hit in 2000, Serbia continues. We are a very concerned assembly of parliamentary majority that was made here because we are afraid that Serbia's further path to Europe is seriously in doubt. We have already said several times that the parliamentary majority that has been formed here, by your election as National Assembly President, represents some kind of revitalisation of the value of politics and ideas that have been dominant in this country for 10 years, but which, unfortunately, all of us, have had very serious consequences for our national and national interests. As an expression of our disagreement with a policy that is obviously, at this point, dominant in Parliament, I assume you now understand why I was talking about what our policy is. So, as an expression of our disagreement, we, Mr. President, will not propose a vice-president of the National Assembly as long as there is such a composition of forces in the National Assembly, which is not, I will remind you, an expression of the will of the citizens in the elections held three or four months ago. I'll tell you why I think so. I don't really think of the Serbian Radical Party with its idea, which I said what I think, that it's really unsustainable for the long term and that it's harmful for our citizens, that it doesn't take real policy into account, so I don't mean 81 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, but I think that citizens, 660 of them. 1,000, 15% of them, who gave their vote so-called. To the people's coalition, they haven't given a vote for the negatives of value and the path we've consistently held since 2000. So, I repeat, this is about the new parliamentary majority being set up a system of ideas and policies that, in our deep confidence, have been devastating for our country and nation in the 1990s, and as an expression of our deepest disagreement, we will not offer a candidate for vice president of the National Assembly. I expect you, Mr. President, to refrain from any form of replication, which you did yesterday and which I don't think was correct, but I also expect you to apologize for interrupting me. I think you should listen to the whole exposure in the future, and then come to a conclusion on whether someone's in the topic or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u567	You're right, but I apologized the moment I interrupted you, so I don't think a double apology means anything to you. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, then Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, you say you stand for some values, European values that have been established in Europe. Among other things, these values include the right of political parties to advocate their programme and policy, but also the right to advocate against other political parties' programmes and policies because otherwise they would be in one single party. You must understand one thing: that the Serbian Radical Party primarily advocates the interests of its own people and the state and that the interests of Europe and the values that Europe stands for are not always the interests of our country and our people; often they unilaterally advocate certain things that are not the same when they are concerned, even harm you. Here, I'll just tell you what happened in the last two days. EU High Representative Javier Solana has advocated that the control of the security services belongs to the President of the Republic. It is simply amazing that such a high representative from the European Union, who should be the bearer of progress and democracy, is behind something that is completely retrograde. He advocates that the executive power be given the right to control the security services. I guess the achievement of democracy is the civilian control of these services, given the importance and strength they have. I suppose Javier Solana should advocate that the Serbian Parliament should have the right to control both military and police intelligence. If these are the values of Europe, I expect Javier Solana to send a message to the French people, given that they have received a new president, and will ask the French to give Nikola Sarkozy the right to control the security services in France. I hope that the Serbian Parliament, in line with democratic traditions, will seek the right to control these services, because it is a democracy advocated by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u569	Miss Jerkov. Please, just say on what basis you're looking for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, related to yesterday's advertising of the Rules of Procedure, members of the 27th and members of the 104th MEP Gordana Comic. Then, Mr. President, in your explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you said: "If anyone is threatened by any human right and if the protest is expressed against it with a badge, bring me this badge and I will wear it during the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". I brought you a badge today. It has a picture of Dinko Gluhonjic, a journalist and president of the Association of Independent Journalists of Vojvodina, who has been threatened with death for months. Here's his picture. I brought a badge, and I demand that you honor what you said yesterday, show that you will advocate the rights of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not just those accused of war crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u571	You could have given it to me in front of the O.R., too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u572	The discussion in this House may seem polite even though we disagree. So, Mr. Todorovic, I want to tell you that I really do not dispute anyone's right. Neither can I, nor can I think of it, nor is it in my nature, nor in the nature of any member of the Democratic Party, to dispute the right of members, sympathisers and voters of the Serbian Radical Party to represent those views they think are in Serbia's interest. We think the views you represent are not in Serbia's interest and it is our right to say so as you say your position. There's something else I want to say. There's a lot of talk about it. You're talking about civilian security control of the military, police, etc. Mr. Todorovic, civilian control is one thing, what you were talking about is parliamentary institutional control. When it comes to control by Parliament and the President of the Republic as part of a bicepal executive authority, it is simply that such control exists in democratically developed states and traditions of Europe. So there is control of the President of the Republic in each of the states, there is control of parliament, and we, hopefully, in this alliance of yours with the SRS and the DSS, will still change our rules of procedure and set up a defence committee and a security control committee. I expect this will happen very soon, if this assembly of Parliament persists. Therefore, this is related to these objections by the European Union. And why are these objections addressed - because of what our citizens of our country know, or at least feel, which is that security services have worked for the past two or three years without, I think, any control, and Parliament, and the President of the Republic, and civil society. So what you're saying, civilian control is something quite third, it's the control of civil society that's being realized through some other mechanisms. Our country has some problems because security services, first of all, police, are unable to make certain commitments, which both this and the previous government have committed and promised to execute, implement. It is therefore necessary to establish a system of control of these services and to make commitments towards the international community come true. I think, in that sense, your replica after my presentation was unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u573	I'm the one who called the heads of Parliament this morning. If anyone else wants a word, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u574	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address you on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, as president of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. On Tuesday, in the morning, it became clear to all of us that the borders between democratic and non-democratic forces in this house have changed. Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election as National Assembly President, which we do not dispute, according to the procedure, has been elected by the majority of votes as Parliament's president, the borders between the democratic and non-democratic bloc have changed. The fact that a member of the Serbian Radical Party has been elected to such a responsible state function is difficult to explain in 2007. It seems to us that we are going back to the 1990s, when it was very difficult for all of us, for already out-of-date reasons. In recent years, there has been a lot of work and effort in democratisation of our country, and it is particularly important to stress on 9 May - a lot of work and effort and in the process of bringing our country closer to the EU. Serbia and its citizens don't deserve to go back. At the same time, we must realise that this situation has been caused solely by the inability of DS, DSS and G17 plus on the democratic government of the Republic of Serbia. The inability and irresponsibility of individual parties, shown over the past months, has distanced us from the desired European integration. Today we can also see concrete first signs of this distance. It's not worth talking about the past. I will say a few sentences on the position of the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and MPs who belong to the Parliamentary Group of Minorities in Parliament's work the following days. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and other parties belonging to the Parliamentary Group of Minorities in this esteemed House have been given a voter mandate to effectively represent their interests. That is why our MPs will continue to participate constructively in the work of the esteemed Parliament. On the other hand, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and SVM do not want to propose members for the National Assembly expert committees and will not have a candidate for Vice-President of Parliament, nor will they support anyone from the proposed candidates. By doing so, our parties, which remain undoubtedly in line with the democratic bloc's parties, want to show dissatisfaction with the fact that in 2007, the SRS MP could have become president of this respected home. On Monday, we also made sure that the election campaign was in full swing. To this day, I have spoken in Serbian in the National Assembly, but because the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians would have had the chance to address their voters with these speakers, as well as all other parties, I ask the President and Secretary of the National Assembly to start from the next day of the session, in accordance with Article 231. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall ensure the translation of our oral presentation into Serbian. In Article 231(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure states: “The MP has the right to speak and to file written documents in the work of the National Assembly, as provided for in this Rules of Procedure, in his native language. The National MP who intends to serve in the work of the National Assembly in the native language, in the sense of the position of the 2nd member, whether in a particular case, is obliged to inform the Secretary of the National Assembly in good time, in order to ensure the translation of his or her oral presentation or documents to the Serbian language. “ I must say, with pride, that among SVM voters there are citizens of other nationalities, and Serbs, and members of other minorities, but, of course, the vast majority of our voters are citizens of Hungarian nationality. And, if the election campaign has already begun, I must speak to my voters, as other MPs have done in this respected home since Monday this week. We will, in accordance with our right, be able to speak in Hungarian in accordance with the above mentioned Rule of Procedure, in future at the meetings of the National Assembly. This morning I submitted my request to the National Assembly, and also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to hand over a copy of this request to the Secretary of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u576	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 1, regarding this previous speech. I believe that the national minorities living in this Serbia and until now have the exact same rights, the same rights as the majority people in Serbia. In Kikinda, I don't know why the problem is that now the president of this assembly, the president of the municipality, has been a radical for two and a half years. In Kikinda, the president of the Assembly, too, is radical and Hungarian, for two and a half years. There weren't any problems on national grounds before radicals or now. Kickinda is a city where people live in complete tolerance, so the choice of radicals for the president in kickinda didn't lead to any worse change, but even better, in terms of international relations. There's one more thing I'd like to say. As for the right to speak in Hungarian, I think the president of the Assembly will make it possible. That's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u577	There's a word from MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u578	The story of democracy is familiar to us, and since you have a problem with the President of the Assembly because he's a radical, it wouldn't be nice for you to talk about democracy here. Because there are MPs here from Subotica, and we know what your democracy is like in Subotica. When we formed the Committee on National Relations in Subotica, it did not occur to your majority and your president to put members of the national minorities on the Committee. In our Committee on National Minorities in Subotica, by the will of your majority and the Democratic Party, you are not allowed to enter Roma, Muslims, but you have called and wanted to give us a minority that does not exist in Subotica, Montenegro's national minority, you tried to place a Montenegrin. Now, that's your democracy, and don't talk too much about your democracy here. We have a lot of information about your democracy, but I wouldn't talk about it today, because it's not about the agenda. There will be opportunities in this assembly of Parliament and we will hear much more about your democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u579	Has the word Pastor Ballint.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u580	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radic, you know very well, since you are a committee member at SO Subotica, that according to SO Subotica's decision in the Council for International Relations, only the representatives could enter. The Roma today have no committees and no Roma party has had them in SO yet, and I sincerely hope that the next local elections will include representatives of the Roma parliamentary parties in SO Saturday. It is certain in this case that, according to SO Subotica, members of the Committee on International Relations, or the Council in SO Subotica, will have. In various local self-governments, this issue has been resolved in various ways. It is decided in Subotica that only the committees can be members of this council for international relations and I can say that in this way there is no violation of democracy in any case, no violation of the statute of SO Subotica and no other decision of SO Subotica. That's what I had to say for the truth. Otherwise, I have no intention of replicating these issues, because I am sure that this is not of interest to other MPs, nor to the citizens of Serbia. As far as I know, today's agenda is the selection of vice presidents and working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not SO Subotica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u581	He has a replica of the People's MP Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u582	Mr Pastor, surely it is not the subject of today's debate SO Subotica, but it is not the subject of national minorities. When you talk about the statutes of SO Subotica, you must also know him. If you weren't a councilman, you could have bothered to read it, and you followed, I see, local parliament assemblies and you could have known so much. In the local Rules of Procedure of SO Subotica, for members of national minorities to be represented on the Committee, the condition is that they are over 1,000. I can't understand that the rebels in Subotic are not 1,000 if that's how 16,000 were declared. The Roma have about five or six thousand. Simply, these national minorities, which are not with you in the coalition, you do not need them in the local parliament, or anywhere, and it is known in general in Subotic that some national minorities, as the Union of Vojvodina Croats, enjoy enormous privileges. It's your democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u583	Please, Mr. Shane, let this be over, so I'll give you my word, so we don't interrupt the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u584	Dear Mr. Radic, I did not talk about national minorities and their position in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we will have legal proposals if this assembly is established in the right sense, if we choose vice presidents, more specifically, if you choose vice presidents, assembly committees, and if we are in a position to propose laws. We have draft laws, amendments and additions to the law, which we will immediately hand over to the president of the National Assembly. I repeat once again that I did not now speak of the position of national minorities, but only informed the president and secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 231. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I intend, in the future, to speak in the native language, for one single reason -- if all the other parties speak with these speakers to their voters, then I, too, must speak to my voters, first and foremost, in Hungarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u585	Your right to speak in Hungarian is undeniable and inalienable and the Assembly will give you that right. I would hate for that wish to be an expression of some resistance to the president of the National Assembly, because that wish is someone returning to the past. [[Applause]] At the time of democracy, since 2000, we haven't had any requirements for translation into the native language. Let us only organize the congregation. So I'd like to ask you to speak this remarkable Serbian language for a while, which you know very well, until we organize a translation. I would also ask other MPs who speak the native language, not only Hungarian, but others, to inform us in good time, since they are obliged to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether they want to be used in the mother tongue, so that we can make it possible. In the meantime, I remained in doubt whether members of the National Minority Council were only representatives or members of national minorities in Subotica. [[Applause]] You have not answered that question, and I think you should start in Subotica, the Assembly of the Municipality, the debate and include Roma members in the Council of National Minorities, i.e. to transfer this tolerance that we now have in the Serbian Parliament to all the local congregations in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u586	I'm reporting on behalf of the Roma political party in connection with the Subotics Community Assembly, and that's why I've been looking for a replica. We must primarily understand that Serbian citizens have stopped voting by who is the bigger Roma, who is the larger Hungarian, who is the bigger Serb. Serbian citizens vote for who will offer a better economic programme, they are interested. They primarily seek to address social issues and employment issues. If we were to talk more about it here in the Assembly and create conditions, if, at different levels of government, we all advocated that Serbian citizens live better, then surely these parties would have more people in the Serbian Parliament, more people in the Vojvodina Parliament and more people on municipal committees. It's so much about the election campaign. I don't think it's a good idea to encourage some international conflicts from this pay phone instead of tolerance, because Serbia is a tolerated state, but there are individuals who are a little different than the citizens of Serbia and let's not inspire it here anymore. About Saturday, here, I'll wait until the MPs agree with each other and continue to listen to me, President. I'll wait to apologize in debate clubs, and then I'll continue, because I'm talking to MPs here, not myself. Therefore, the law is very clear, the advice for international relations is not the working bodies of the municipality, nor the working bodies of certain political parties. Councils on International Relations are representative bodies of national communities and the corrections of the authorities of the current, elected congregations at local level. Therefore, if you have the National Council of the Roma National Minority, or the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, or any national minority, as a correction of the Government of the Republic of Parliament, the Republic Government, then there is no correction to be appointed from the same composition, because I see a conflict of interest here. There is therefore no reason to live in Subotica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, in all municipalities where Roma live, and thank God, in this well-intentioned state in all municipalities, they are not in the advice of international relations in helping the state of Serbia, their municipalities, further building a tolerance society. We push them differently on the sidelines, leave them in the machines where they can't live, otherwise we push them into social misery, because they can't communicate with the community, and then they can't integrate. So, I ask all MPs in the Serbian Parliament to also transfer to their political parties and their municipalities, that we all advocate that Roma, even where they are not one per cent, are in the councils for international relations. If we have said that national minorities can enter the Serbian Assembly under more favourable conditions and we have shown here that there are affirmative measures towards national minorities, let us also do so to the Roma, which are the most socially endangered category. I think it'll be our contribution. If everyone in their community does, we'll show that we really take care of the Roma. Thank you very much. So, Roma are not on boards of municipalities, because committees are working bodies, and working bodies make up elected committees. Somewhere different, and we bear the thought that new models are being built in the Serbian Parliament too, because this Rules of Procedure is not in line with the Constitution, this Rules of Procedure is not in line with democratic fluids. We need to see how Serbian citizens can participate more in the process of defining a democratic initiative in all institutions. Thank you very much, President, for letting me speak a little more than time suggests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u587	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u588	Thank you, Mr. President. I have answered, dear colleagues, with the intention of advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure regarding the agenda of the Assembly, with the wish, my and most MPs of this National Assembly, to return to the work of the National Assembly and the subject on the agenda. Why am I saying this? We entered a story that comes out of the box and the agenda and what the law provides. With some circumstances, I had with me the Law on Local Self-Government that very clearly regulates this issue and there is no need for MPs, through the Assembly's pay phone, to bicker and show themselves to larger or smaller advocates of respect for the rights of minority members. Article 63. The Law on Local Self-Government says very precisely: "In national mixed municipalities a council on international relations is established, which is made up of representatives of all national and ethnic communities. National mixed municipalities, within the meaning of this law, are considered municipalities where one national community accounts for more than five percent of the total population or all communities account for more than 10 percent of the last census in the Republic of Serbia. Representatives in the Council for International Relations can have communities with more than one per cent participation in the general population of the municipality." I don't think there's really any need for further stories. One more thing, when I checked in, Mr. President, I'd like to draw attention to another dimension that we witnessed yesterday. For me, as an MP of this esteemed home since 2001, it is truly incomprehensible to the kind of outpouring of negative emotions that I experienced yesterday and the day before, during the act of establishing this assembly and electing the president of the National Assembly, by some MPs, as well as what was heard of this assembly speaker. I'm saying this because in the last few days we've been able to hear everything, just not about what's on the agenda. In fact, we were in a situation, about the election of the president of the National Assembly, so I'm not talking about a man, but if you need to talk about a man who's now elected, let's just hear about everything just not the candidate or anything like that. I'm not saying this by accident. Parliament has been around for 17 years, and different people from different political options were Parliament's presidents. I didn't hear until the day before yesterday that it was democratic or something. Don't cheat on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a problem that the president of the assembly is from one parliamentary party, but rather the problem is that it does not correspond to some party and some interests outside this house. We had the president of Parliament from the least political party within the DOS, or from a little less in the previous coalition, so none of it made a case. We now have the President of Parliament from the most numerous parliamentary group, so that is the problem. It would be fair to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the problem is not personal, but rather interesting. Some parties have seen themselves in some places, and some countries have seen their representatives in Parliament or at the head of Parliament. And something about hate speech, about hate speech again. I'm glad neither my colleague Vukic nor my colleague Dinkic are here today, because I noticed an interesting situation. All the so-called. independent media and NGOs have dried the trees and stones to the statements of individual representatives, in particular, to Mr Krasic, in the previous National Assembly meeting, when he gave a certain qualification of the G17 Plus candidate, when he condemned or made a statement concerning a particular belonging, belonging to one movement. It's interesting that no one reacted yesterday, he didn't say a word because, for example, he was an MP of this esteemed home accused of being a murderer. Nobody said a word. You know, belonging to some political movement or option, of course it's not good, but that still doesn't mean that the man is a murderer, and someone is told that the killer is just like that, that's okay. Why? Because that's what someone who represents themselves as a Democrats says. I think it's a shame for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it speaks about how many of these double criteria exist here. Some are allowed to tell everything because they qualified themselves as Democrats, so they are allowed to do so, and others are not allowed to say anything. While I'm here, behind this speaker, I have to say that it's a good thing that the National Service has shown some of the atmosphere about the election of the National Assembly president, but it's not a good thing that he didn't show that other part of the assembly debate - about talks about forming a government and the need to control the security services. It's not a good thing the National Television didn't show it. I'm saying this not only in the context of what Mr. Aligrudic said, but here, and today you see the statements of foreign representatives Solana made a mistake in saying "black on white" that Tadic should control the security services. So, the essence, however, is in the security services and the desire of one political option to control the security services, to control all of us, to control Serbia, because someone needs to control the security services. I'd rather, I mentioned it the night before, that there was a speech about security services from the point of view of the need for the Assembly to control security services and to pass laws that would allow the National Assembly to control security services and to improve security services to protect the state, to combat crime, not to have one political option or one man in control of security services. What does that mean, one man? Serbia's president has no constitutional authority to control security services. Then how can one man, this man, control the security services? Through his own party. So we should get our man. That, unfortunately, was confirmed by Mr Petrovic that night, that the essence of the Democratic Party is to control the security services. I mention all of this, unfortunately, as negative examples of what is happening in Serbia and what is happening to us. Mr. President, I ask that, in the course of this session of the National Assembly, you apply the powers of the President of the National Assembly and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that we stick to the agenda, which is called the establishment of the Assembly and the selection of vice-presidents. Those who went on the campaign, good luck to them, but let them out of this room talk about political options, what they wanted, what they thought, and let them explain to whom they promised, expecting to be in these places. Serbian citizens don't deserve to hear some empty party stories, especially because they don't know what's behind them. We should go back to work, choose, if we can, vice-presidents, committees, and move on, as there are probably more laws on the agenda of the Assembly, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are interested in being adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u589	If I were to apply the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradich, I would have long warned you, taken your word. Still, I think it's better this way to say whatever you want. I think the atmosphere is largely tolerated and there's no need to apply the rigid provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Keep going, and let my soul be burdened if the Assembly doesn't work well. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u590	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to say anything new if I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. - that MPs can only talk about what's on the agenda. However, the presentation of the head of the National Minorities' Parliament Club has turned here into a debate on the position of national minorities, whether minorities are frightened by the election of Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president. Speaking of which, I'd just like one explanation from the head of the National Minority Group. I fully well-intentionedly support everything he has said here, but whether he is also MPs of the Sandzak List - Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, since they did not vote for a democratic candidate, although they had an obligation, because the conclusion of the Minority Parliament Club was that they support candidate Milena Milosevic. Apparently, two of Suleiman Ugljanin's MPs did not vote so, they fled the hall, refused to object to the new assembly majority, leaving the possibility that if the government of the assembly majority was formed, they would participate in power. I must say that because of voters in Sandzak, first of all, the Bosniak national community, so that the public in Serbia and Sandzak know the real truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u591	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u592	Ladies and gentlemen, by establishing a new parliamentary majority, which resulted in the election of Parliament's president and will result in today's election of vice-presidents, Serbia has returned 10 years ago. It was in 1997 that the authorities of the SPS, the SRS and the JUL were established. Today someone else took over the role of JUL, but according to the same behavior matrix, according to the same system of values that the JUL was working on. At the time of that government - what did we have in Serbia? Trouble, poverty, empty shelves, gas cans, single inflation. We had spite, defiance, isolation, an argument with the whole world. We've had media closures, dragon sentences to owners, editors, journalists. We had one crazy policy about Kosovo and Metohija. At the time, it was possible to finance Albanian separatists, arming, forming parallel institutions of government. At the time, we remember that show of Rambuje, those smiles in Rambuje, those farces around the state policy regarding the resolution of the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, ignoring the G-8 proposal, the Contact Group, simply ignoring everything normal. In the end, it ended with a capitulation in Kumanov. That's the policy balance. Let's remember, that time was filled with a number of unexposed murders, with secret security services, with a kind of tycoonisation of Serbia, that wasn't what it was called, but today it's a favorite term. The judiciary has been transformed into a service of the current authorities to carry out the dirtiest jobs. Let's remember those farce trials of NATO leaders, Spiders, Wasps and other nonsense, other trials. We were experiencing a fundamental violation of human rights. That's how it was then, with that coalition and that authority. I'm afraid that's happening again today. Again, we have misery and poverty, despite those great promises of the current government. We are witnessing that in Serbia, in various places, people are starving. That's what you've all read, that's what you've all had a chance to follow. We are once again witnessing the closure of certain media, the shutting down of certain media, the threats to individual media, and again we have a bad policy on the Kosovo and Metohija issue. We don't have a State Negotiation Team report on the results of the negotiations to date. It's ignoring and insulting the National Assembly. Finally, we have seen today what are the current effects of establishing a new parliamentary majority: the biggest decline in stock exchanges. Experts say the direct damage is about half a billion. No flag has been raised outside the House of the National Assembly, although Serbia should chair the Council of Europe. We have visas, we have a delay in visa relief, we have inflation, or growth in the euro. To me, it's perfectly normal and completely natural to establish... Can you let me speak normally, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u593	Mr. Batic, there's no way out of law school. You didn't explain to me at all why you went out for a pay phone, on which basis, I don't know who you're replicating, I don't know what minority you're talking about, I didn't get you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u594	Mr. President, you didn't come up with that lesson in law school where it's said that there's no right to wrong. You're not qualified to judge this. I'm talking about the agenda point, and the agenda point is the election of the Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u595	But we haven't moved on to a debate on the agenda yet, Mr. Batic. You couldn't have gotten the word if I realized you were speaking on the agenda. There's still been reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u596	I've seen that there are no more reported by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u597	Now I understand the basics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u598	All representatives of the parliamentary clubs spoke. Therefore, I suppose it is normal that now the word can be taken by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u599	I can't, because I had Mr. Pastor's replica. I thought you were answering the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u600	If you let me finish, if you don't, I'll break up, and I'll repeat all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u601	You know, if I had strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to apply for a written discussion. You didn't do it either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u602	Can I finish or sign up and talk again? In the future, you will assign the forms to the parliamentary groups, so that they can register...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u603	That extraction is no use to you now, because yesterday I called for a form to come for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u604	Mr. Nikolic, you expected, probably, big political points by taking over as president of the assembly. You're not doing it, Mr. Nikolic. My good advice to you - you tried, you saw, put your hands up from it, it will be better for you and us. Can I finish now, Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u605	I don't bother you at all, but a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u606	So I said it was a completely natural coalition of the SPS and the SRS and I have nothing against it. They're ideologically and politically close, and it's totally O.K. I'm speaking to the MPs of the third group. I've known many of them since the first days of the multi-party, since the early 1990s. Party discipline, party membership, must never be above the basic and personal morality. I refer especially to those whose ideologist was the late Borislav Pekic. Remember Pekic's words that personal morality is the basis of every general policy. Don't blush, be ashamed of your housemates, your fellow citizens, your descendants, for some chair and some authority. So we will not vote for the vice-presidents of Parliament, not for personal solutions, but for not voting for Serbia on March 12th, it leads to the past. We're on the Serbian line on October 5th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u607	Here you go, Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u608	Mr Batic has made such a series of lies, which can only be heard from his mouth, and such a series of upside-down and evil political observations that they are no longer worth answering. The public knows all this. So, I just wanted to announce to these that, in the event of such calls, the DSS will not react again until the end of this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u609	Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u610	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone after I was asked one question, and I want to answer that question. The question was - on whose behalf I had just stated that we would not propose vice-presidents of the Assembly and that we would not participate in proposing candidates for members of the Assembly committees. At the beginning of the presentation, I said I was speaking as president of the Group of Minorities. As you well know, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities consists of parties -- the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. The day before yesterday, at the session of our parliamentary group, a decision was made to support the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms Milena Milosevic, and so we voted. Also, yesterday, at a meeting of the Parliamentary Group, we agreed that our position was not to propose to the vice presidents and members of the assembly committees. To repeat, I speak on behalf of the Group of Minorities. I can also confirm that this is a matter, of course, of the Union of Duchy Hungarians, and for the other members, specifically, the parties belonging to this parliamentary group, you must individually ask them. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Group, a decision was taken not to propose to the Vice-President and members of the Committee. So, I was speaking on behalf of the Group of Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u611	Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm so surprised how Mr. Aligrudic recognized himself. I'm so surprised. I didn't insult anyone. I've got the factographic data, the facts, I've been telling the truth. But since Mr Aligrudic has already said that this will be a reason not to discuss, or participate in today's Parliament's session, I am asking the question - what should I say that they are no longer involved in Parliament's work, because it is best for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u613	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) The first on the list of registered speakers is Srdjan Shain. Mr. Batiæ, should we count on that first presentation or would you like to re-speak, since you are next on the list of registered speakers?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u614	I don't want to talk about individual candidates, I'm not talking about that part, I'm talking about how many vice-presidents there are and how generally to choose the governing body of this highest legislature. I think that what citizens of Serbia are, and that's one tolerated community, truth be told, there are things like that in Zrenjanin, where six hooligans are picked up, and then they attack the Roma settlement "Dudalu", meaning that if we ignore individuals, we should also paint here in the Serbian Parliament. Also, this attitude of national tolerance must be painted at the chair table. In that sense... President, I know I'm a minority, but I'd like most of them to hear me. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u615	Please allow the MP to speak. If you have something to discuss, you can do it outside the O.R. because the quorum is not needed right now. The SRS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u616	What you don't care about, I understand, you don't have to tell me, but it would be good if you told the voters that you don't care about that question, that I don't think you don't think so, or your party. I think your party thinks a little differently, but that's what your vice president is going to tell you, I don't need to tell you that from this pay phone. You seem young, so I think you have time to learn that. I'm sure there's someone to teach you, because it's not a whole party like you. I think it is necessary to do the following: one minority representative is required for the table, regardless of who makes up the parliamentary majority, and I say that there is a parliamentary majority, since all these proposals are voted by the parliamentary majority, I am not talking about a parliamentary majority to vote the government, regardless of whether it will be a representative of minorities from the SRS, the SAA or the DSS. This would make it very clear to the citizens that this assembly and Serbia, regardless of which political ideology is taking place, always remains in one ideology, which is the ideology not to be annulled in the Serbian Parliament and in the working bodies, as well as in the sitting-seat bodies, the sincere desire of Serbian citizens to achieve full equality of all national communities, including all minorities. In that sense, I suggest two solutions. Either to withdraw one of the candidates, in agreement, or to appoint a fourth representative who will be from the ranks of the national minorities and from the political parties that make up the majority. So I'm not talking about the need for someone from the Minority Club to come in. I also plead that I do not accept being vice president of the assembly, but I ask you to take care of it. It is not up to me to send these or such messages to the international community, which someone will say that at this table there will be more than 25% of minorities, and in the last meeting there was at the chair and representatives of minorities, I am much more than we are sending to the citizens of Serbia, and we are sending a message to the citizens of Serbia - go to Djadu, so slap them there a little bit, because we do not respect them here or here in the Assembly. I will vote to be Joja Damjanovic here vice president, regardless of what's in the SRS, because Roma is and because that's how this assembly... (Momir Markovic, from the post: He was a minister. I know. I said when the ministers are elected, I'll talk about the ministers, and now I'm talking about this. So let us send clear messages from the Serbian Parliament to the citizens of Serbia. A message to Serbian citizens from the Serbian Parliament cannot be that minorities are not involved in the work. The fact that certain representatives of minorities will not participate in the work of the Assembly is their right as MPs. However, political parties that make up the majority in Serbia and have minority representatives, I think they have an obligation to include minorities in an adequate manner. Think of this as a well-intentioned suggestion, not as politics, you realize that this is a mechanism to show the citizens of Serbia that Serbia is tolerated, which is, and that we are going to fight against that small number of people who are making problems together, by all means of law, and that this country is ready to bring them to justice. (Momir Markovic, from the post: Speak to Boris Tadic. I am not saying this to Boris Tadic, I am telling the members of this congregation. I'm not saying this to anyone else, I'm saying to someone who needs to exercise parliamentary control over the judiciary, over all the executive authorities in Serbia. I therefore see myself as an MP who addresses Serbian MPs and citizens, and I intend to address the president of the Serbian Parliament this week, to ask them to launch an initiative to form a Constitutional Court, to do both their part of the job, to propose representatives of the Constitutional Court. When I talk about you, I mean the Assembly, and that's my part. It is not my role to make correspondence with the president of Serbia, because he is closer to me than MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u617	Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u618	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel the need to ask the question - is there anything in common between us all here. I believe there is, yes, by the logic of things, there must be. It is, above all, the Constitution and the anthem of the "God of Justice". Can I sing it so we can all get up? I'm afraid if we really believe in God and justice, if we really understand such words, then we should put our finger on the head, because, excuse me, Mr. President, maybe it will sound blasphemous, I'm trying to preserve this Parliament's dignity and, of course, my own dignity. If we allow politics to be like a prostitute, let us not be surprised that this bright home will become like a public house. I'm already afraid we're on the verge of that danger. I fully agree with Mr. Shane, that it is necessary to send messages to the citizens of this country and the basic question, I am now speaking to the citizens of the country, yes - why we receive salaries, please. Because of the shame, I'm going to give up my salary because I know that millions of people are starving, people who work with a hack, who hold hair, a hoax, and have nothing to feed their children. Are we meeting here to fight with each other or to solve state problems responsibly, social problems, economic, economic, school, etc.? Does the people of this country pay us to turn the Assembly into a spithouse? That's unworthy, Mr. President, of this home. Of course, I never have any objections to individuals, nor to Mr. Tom Nikolic, he knows it himself, he was a guest of Tanjuga at the time I was assistant editor-in-chief. No, we don't need to talk about individuals. Here is a key problem-- a structural problem. It's not about that. After all, Bracika, the famous Bracika Kertes, translated into Serbian – a gardener, said - I am Hungarian. Well, what if he said that in "Joghurt Revolution"? The fundamental problem, when it comes to national minorities, is whether a majority member sees it as a member of a national minority. If he doesn't see it, he just proves that we all live together in an inhuman world, and in order for this inhuman world to change, we can only do it together. I know that there are countries where Roma and other national minorities have an incomparably worse treatment than in Serbia. We had an example of Slovenia, Slovakia, etc. There are very often such problems in Serbia, but, thank God, Serbia cannot compare with these countries. Brothers of Serbs, I understand the political divisions, but let's not make trenches anymore, let's not make, as Dobrica Cosic said - divisions, because it can lead us to tragedy, at a time when we have thousands and thousands of problems in Serbia. Let's try to take advantage of our minds and restore our dignity to this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u619	Has MP Andrea Galgo-Ferrency arrived? It's not. The word is Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u620	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that the parliamentary elections in Serbia ended on January 21st and that nearly four months have passed since then, and that we have not yet established the National Assembly and its committees. These days we hear serious preparations for some repeated, repetitive parliamentary elections in Serbia. Perhaps all of you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, have received various messages from your fellow citizens that you represent in this tall home. You've spoken to them and I believe you've heard what they think about what's happening to Parliament. And I got a lot of these messages, but what I got yesterday is a memo signed by a hundred and some of my fellow citizens of the Royals. They asked that what they wrote to me I interpret to you here, as their representative, or as a National MP. However, reading that letter, which is honestly written, obviously from the soul and the way ordinary people experience it, I decided not to convince and interpret it. I'm just going to read it integrally, so all of us sitting in this room watching what's going on here these days think a little bit before we go out with a lot of bile and fire for this pay phone. "Remarkable MP," my fellow citizens say. "It has been almost four months since the 21st day of January when, believing in our country and its institutions, we went to elections and showed our political will. None of us had any idea that for weeks behind this we would be witnessing something that could most easily be called carelessness, intolerance, disrespect for Serbian citizens and lack of interest in our daily life problems. We have chosen you by believing that you will be able to agree, to find the best people for responsible functions, and to take your jobs, form the government and everything else you need, that Serbia can live normally, to meet the basic interest of our ordinary people, to be safe, to be employed, to have where to study, to treat, to pay and pensions are enough for even what we call the needs of an ordinary average man. Our children want to see the world, learn something there, our children want computers, friendships and acquaintances beyond Serbia's borders. Our parents want a certain age, so that their pensions are not charity and social aid. They want to be treated, at least once a year to go to some of the Serbian spas, to warm themselves up in winter and eat a decent meal. We're humble people, and we don't ask for much. Therefore, we ask you, on our behalf, to ask your colleagues whom we have chosen to be our voice in the Serbian congregation to manifest themselves and to remember for at least a moment, while sitting in the congregation hall or in the congregation restaurant, or to raise their diaries or belongings in the congregation register, to remember who they represent and who pays them, that they do not forget for a second that the poor man who bought the loaf of bread today paid taxes to this country. We ask you to tell them to be courteous in the congregation, not to fight or to be offended, and not to compete in the amount of hatred and mutually-produced accusations and insults, in the amount of anger, jealousy, and pride. Let them turn every time they speak behind a pay phone and look at Serbia's coat of arms and flag. Let this be a warning to them that they are not gods, but servants and representatives of the people and citizens, a state whose symbols are above their heads. This country has been created for centuries, millions of our ancestors have installed their years of work in it, and many, unfortunately, bones and blood. You compete in creating good laws, good behavior, competing with good ideas and ideas. We are appalled by the fact that some of the politicians would share Serbia with some two Serbs. Are they aware of what they're doing? Wasn't there enough division, conflict, civil wars in history? Are they aware that every member of every family in Serbia is a supporter, a sympathiser or a member of some of the political parties? Let's split the families into two parts. Let the brother and brother, son and father be caught by the throat, etc. Let the two Serbians finally be accounted for, so that we may empty the cities of Serbian and white plague with the empty villages anyway, so that the United Nations may set crosses without names and buried heads. Serbia today is a sad country, tired of riots, chaos and injustice. Who will restore Serbia to smile, faith, hope and love? You have to do this, you who asked for our support, you who applied for such serious and responsible occupations in the election. We ask the doctor and expect him to treat us, from teachers to teach us, from farmers to feed us bread, from politicians we ask them to govern this country and provide us with the lives of a worthy man. That in these few days they look well at our past, present and future, and that once and for all they realize that they do not exist for themselves, but for the sake of us who are, for the sake of those who will be thanks to those who were. Tell them not to justify or apologize. There's no excuse, and we don't take apologies. Until January 21st, they convinced us that they loved and respected us, that they wanted the best for us. On that day, with our votes, we gave them the power to agree to create a plan and programme and to lead us and Serbia in the only possible way, through freedom, justice, truth, renewal of life and youth, out of unemployment, through all kinds of progress. Don't even think about being divided and quarreled with each other. Don't think that in a few days, they're talking to us again with empty stories, passwords, flossules and how they haven't been able to come to an agreement. We have no more time, no more will and desire to listen to them. We've had enough democracy from election to election and let them realize once and for all that we will no longer pay those who are unable to do their job. Isn't politics the art of making compromises? If they're not aware of it, let them stand down. Remember these messages of ours, dear messengers, and pass them on to your colleagues, and remember, everyone remembers that you represent both the sieves and the hungry, and the healthy and the sick, and the educated and the uneducated, and the busy and the unemployed, and the refugees and the displaced, and the homeless, and the proselytes and the warmed up, and the joyful and sad citizens of Serbia. They are neither black nor red, nor yellow, nor blue, nor left, nor right. They just want to live normal. If you do not agree, Serbia will not forgive you this time. All your attempts to blame each other and to get some political benefit out of this joint accident or a pointless percentage of support in the re-elections -- you won't get away with it. We are no longer politically naive and unenlightened. We believe you won't let us down. We believe that you will properly interpret our views and attitudes and that is why we write this to you, we ordinary, concerned people, citizens of your and our King, citizens of Serbia. It's better for you to do it for us than to ever come before a congregation building again. May God protect you all and help you to conquer yourself, to be good and responsible people, who will serve for the benefit of our only Serbia. We want to be proud of you, not to be ashamed of how you represent us. Don't forget, and that poor guy who barely collected a little church girl this morning to buy only a loaf of bread paid taxes to the state and filled the register with both the Parliaments and the Government of Serbia. With respect," and behind it goes about a hundred citizens of the Kings.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u622	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished representatives of public information funds, citizens of Serbia, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, which says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. By the time I heard back, I too received a letter from the King asking me thousands of citizens of the Kings how did you vote on public rollout, Mr Jovic, how did you vote for the election of the President of the Assembly and aren't you the Jovic who was removed from the post of President of the Kingdom Municipality by the votes of the Serbian Radical Party?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u623	Can you read us that letter?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u624	There's no need, it's very long and there's a lot of sides. I'll give it to you, Mr. Nikolic, if you're interested, and I'll give you a police report on how radicals forged the signature.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u625	Don't give it to me, give it to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u626	You asked me, so I answer to you. The Parliament didn't ask me. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Jovic, if you haven't made a smile, if you haven't sold your faith for dinner, if you haven't failed hope, maybe only love is still left, but the next time you think about how you voted when you read these letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u627	You'd better give me that letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u628	An esteemed colleague, each and every one of us in life, even inside himself and in his head, must create a system of values and a hierarchy of responsibility for certain things. What happened to me personally in the Kingdom, which is why I resigned as President of the Assembly, or the Kingdom Municipality, has really nothing to do with the need for the state of Serbia to get its institutions, that the state has anyone to represent and defend, because we are in a real political crisis. Let's also agree on the leaders of political parties in Serbia or to go back to parliamentary elections, which seems likely to happen, and in the meantime, the United Nations brings some resolution, a new resolution, or the Security Council, on the future, on the status of the state of Serbia, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija. Who's going to react to that? You said, or lawyers say they can't react to it as chairman of the assembly's session, but as president of the assembly. Obviously, there was no agreement here on who it would be and how the majority would be made enough to form the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is regrettable that this has not happened and it is unfortunate that we have had to seek some other compromises in order to form at least one institution, which is called Parliament. What happened in the King and what happened to me is another story and I wouldn't open up a debate here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u629	Milos Jevtić
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u630	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak exclusively of the agenda item that we have today, which is the selection of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, as well as members of the Assembly Committees and working bodies. I think that the practice established in the last two calls, therefore, in the last seven years, has been absolutely correct - all parliamentary parties represented in this parliament, which are relevant, had their vice-presidents. I think that practice should definitely be welcomed and not changed. Also, it was a practice for parties not to comment on individual proposals from other parliamentary factions and the Democratic Party will fully respect this practice today. So, we do not want to comment, nor to challenge the possibility of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party or the Socialist Party of Serbia to propose their candidates for vice-presidents of the Assembly, as well as for members of the working bodies. However, the Democratic Party does not want to give its candidate for vice-president, as well as candidates for other working bodies at the moment, because this practice, which has been established so far, is not fully respected. In all previous cases, the assembly majority established for the election of Parliament's president and vice presidents was, in fact, the parliamentary majority that was also the future government. In fact, the number of MPs necessary for Parliament's election and for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia is also identical, so 126. In this case, at least two parties making up the parliamentary majority, which are currently the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, deny that the election of Parliament's president is a political act and deny that it will be the majority that will make up the future government of the Republic of Serbia. So at this point, we don't know if we've chosen the president of the assembly and the future vice presidents of the assembly as a temporary solution for five days, so we're going to have a new situation and new elections from Monday, or it's a permanent solution that will result in the formation of a new government. To me, all the explanations I've heard so far from the DSS and the SRS have sounded pretty naive, but we're definitely going to have to wait until the expiry of the legal deadline, so May 15th, to see what's the point we're facing. The fundamental reason why the Democratic Party will not give its candidate for Vice-President of Parliament is that it is the fundamental principle of DS and the fundamental direction we want to move and lead our country, the direction of European integration. I will briefly analyse the situation by Monday, until the election of Parliament's president. The situation in which Serbia was in this area was truly insecure to the entire region today called the Western Balkans; we are the last on the list of all countries in the integration process. All other countries have gone far beyond us, including Bulgaria and Romania, which became members of the European Union on January 1st 2007, as well as Macedonia and Croatia, which have official candidate status. Even Montenegro has recently signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Albania also, from a few years ago. Serbia is the only country in the region, and it seems to me in Europe, which has absolutely no relationship with the EU. Our negotiations are suspended due to non-cooperation with The Hague tribunal. I think it's a situation we'd all have to be very concerned about. As of Monday, by choosing Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president, the situation has deteriorated dramatically. What we have argued - that the election of the president of the National Assembly of the SRS will have adverse consequences for Serbia, it can be seen in the previous two days. The European Commission has withdrawn clear consequences. The visa relief agreement, which was to be signed, which essentially tangs the interests of Serbian citizens who want to travel freely, without problems and waiting in line in front of EU consulates, will not be signed. I think it is quite clear that it is a reaction to this political situation in Serbia, therefore, to the election of the president of parliament from the Serb Radical Party. What I'm saying today, I'm talking right now on Europe Day, the day that was to be marked by raising the flag of Europe in front of the Serbian Parliament. The act will not occur and it is also one of the sequences of what happened Monday. The statement was issued by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Mr. Terry Davis, a man known for not being elected first-time secretary-general of the organisation, precisely because he did not get votes from members of his political group because he opposed the bombing of Serbia. He's known for that attitude. This afternoon, we will already have a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the ambassadorial level, which will, in fact, discuss what is coming next next week, which is the Presidency of the Council of Europe by Serbia. I think that's a question, too. It is the beginning of problems Serbia will face if there is a government in which Serbian radicals will be formed. What is very important to clarify to the citizens of Serbia at this time is the difference in the fundamental principles and orientation of individual parties. I don't like to use a division into a democratic and non-democratic block, I definitely don't like to use it from Monday, when that termology really became quite relative. What is significant to me at this point is the party's relationship to the European integration process. You can see this from the document that the chairman himself mentioned today during the debate, which is the Resolution on European Integrations adopted by Parliament in the previous meeting. The resolution was voted by SRS MPs, represented by Tomislav Nikolic. The SPS MPs also voted against the resolution. When you add to that what the last statement of will, the president of the SRS, told his comrades, which is that the sharpest opposition to Serbia's involvement in the North Atlantic Pact and the EU, is because, he said, there are all the traditional enemies of the Serbian people, for us one such choice is totally unacceptable. While the situation with the Serbian Radical Party can also be understood, because it is at least one controversial policy, which they have advocated for 15 years, what we definitely cannot understand at this time is the behaviour of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which has claimed to support Serbia's European path and that it wants Serbia to see one day in the European Union. It's a behavior that's not condescending, but at least now we're facing a new reality, which in a few days will have its own result -- either in new elections, or in the formation of a new government. What is very important at this point is that the fundamental principle, which I have repeatedly mentioned, is that Serbia should definitely be in the EU, is for the Democratic Party the most fundamental principle and essence of our policy-making. We don't want to stand down from that. The strongest motive for why we decided not to give our candidate to the vice-president of the assembly is that which I have stated, that Parliament Speaker Tomislav Nikolic represents an anti-European political option. It's clear to us at this point. Further consequences, which will happen after Parliament's constitution, at this point no one can predict, but what is clear from the first two -- is that Serbia is suffering and will suffer the adverse consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u631	Please do not go past history in your presentation. The SRS parliamentary group did not vote against the resolution that was adopted, we were simply not in the O.R. and we did not vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of truth, an MP is required, under Article 104, to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, because this assembly was before us, and it will be after us. We really need to take care of some things. The previous speaker brought some lies here. Untruths that, unfortunately, are not good for the Democratic Party. I have to inform you that the practice of electing vice presidents in the Serbian Parliament since the first day of the establishment of a multi-party assembly, you are young but I suppose there are among you who remember one of the first vice-presidents, Borvoj Petrovic of Kragujevac, who was elected on the citizens' list, were the same in 1994 and 1997; political parties were changing, the assembly's composition changed, until the liberators arrived until the real Democrats arrived. In 2001, you did not want to give the Serbian Radical Party the right to have its vice president, according to the procedure that existed until then. In protest, the SRS came out of all the boards and until the new elections in 2003 we didn't participate in any committees. Therefore, when speaking from a pay phone, you must either know the facts or not to deceive the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u634	If you want to, dear colleague, tell the truth to the end, then you really need to tell all the facts that are relevant. You did have the opportunity to participate in congregation committees and other working bodies, as well as in permanent delegations, but you did not use this opportunity. What I can tell you is that in the last session, that is, from the moment Serbia became an independent state, after a referendum in Montenegro, you had the opportunity to participate in a delegation located in the Council of Europe and in other delegations. You didn't do that. You had the largest number of MPs in that delegation, so four, including the current President of Parliament, who is my deputy in the Political Committee. No SRS MPs went to a meeting in Strasbourg, not once. They insisted that Mr Krasic could not get a seat in the delegation, while, meanwhile, the same MP was in Strasbourg for a study visit and the overall debate, which lasted, literally, six months, both on the tide and on the various committees, concerning the Resolution on Kosovo, which the entire delegation saw from the balcony, with air, amendments and changes. None of your deputies were in that delegation and participated in the work of the Council of Europe. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u635	He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u636	All uninformed since this morning from the Democratic Party, one gentleman and the other. You're wrong, colleague Yevtić, because you weren't an MP in the last term. Unlike those of you who very often want to change things to a "arm" and force, you think it is democratic, we respect parliamentary procedure. For us, the National Assembly of Serbia and its legitimately elected representatives are the only measure of the relationship between forces. The Serbian Radical Party, as the largest and most numerous political parties, in the agreements that followed for the establishment of a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, received, as you said, the largest number of seats, four seats, but the agreement by the heads of parliament groups, or names given in the order of the SRS, does not mean that these people, without prior decision-making in the assembly, can travel anywhere. Otherwise, the question of the legitimacy of the delegation has been raised which has not been decided by the Assembly, i.e. the Assembly has not confirmed it, but Mr Predrag Markovic, former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has formed some delegations, including for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the basis of the names received by political parties. Every delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, while being President of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, will be voted here, in a assembly home, not in that manner, so that you say that we did not want to exercise our right. You know very well that representatives of the SRS at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in a delegation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in which you were a member, as I recall, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Dragan Todorovic, represented the interests of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija very often themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u637	He has a replica of the People's Messenger Milos Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u638	I'd like to say something else about our delegation to the Council of Europe. They are not fully clear business provisions on how the delegation could have been elected at that time - whether it was meant for the Assembly to do so or simply to formulate their proposals and thus form a delegation. Mr Aligrudic was just the head of the delegation, and I can say that the formation of a delegation and participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was very important for the protection of Serbia's essential interests at the time, because, as I said -- the Kosovo Resolution was on the agenda, whose proposal was very unfavourable for Serbia. If you had a little feeling for a moment, if you really wanted to help, like all the other members of the delegation, who were present at all the meetings and committees, you'd find yourself in Strasbourg and you wouldn't be watching the meeting and the discussion from the balcony.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u639	I think this is rude. I'll explain it to you, and then you put it to the vote that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. When we agreed on the election of members of the delegation and agreed on opinions, an ultimatum came from a parliamentary group that would not participate in the work in Strasbourg if Zoran Krasic was a member of the delegation. That was the G17 Plus MP group, supported by all of you. Then you decided not to attend a session of the National Assembly at all, because you would vote on it by consensus. The rules of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe say MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly are elected in national parliaments, as set out by the National Assembly. We have no MPs appointed by the president of the National Assembly. Imagine now the situation that, by my command, I shall appoint you MPs in Strasbourg. Would you listen to that? Would you do that because you can get into that situation in five days? I think the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly is in June. If we don't choose a delegation in the Assembly by then, how will she leave? Are you going to represent the congregation in this way, and are you sure about that? Maybe, after new elections, but no new elections have been made. But to tell you that we could have helped Kosovo and Metohija and we didn't want to, that really doesn't make sense. That is why I will never order you to which delegations you will be a member, because it is not my democratic right. I'm a little more equal than the others because I can give my word to the Rules of Procedure. I am no commander of the People's MPs here, but neither the Serbian radicals, as MPs, will take orders from another MP. I wish you, wherever you travel to the world and say you represent Serbia, that before that someone has chosen you, a congregation, because then it is a sign that there is a people behind you, not your political party. There's a word from Messenger Milos Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u640	Mr. President, I am once again advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 96. So again, you, from the chairman's post, engage in a debate with individual MPs. Yesterday you made a remark that you didn't have a vice president to whom you'd give your seat as you went out for a pay phone. I just see one on your right, so please respect article 96. The Rules of Procedure and that when you wish to enter a debate with the other MPs, you come here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u641	He has a replica of MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u642	Replica refers to the presentation of MPs Natasa Jovanovic and MP Milos Jevtic. The truth works, you have to tell the next one. Indeed, it is a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, i.e. the composition of this delegation was announced by the signing of the President of the National Assembly of Predrag Markovic and, as such, the notice has arrived at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which does not enter the way in which the composition of the delegation was created and what our internal rules are. I really agree that our internal rules, first in that section, in that sector, are not defined. I also agree that the logical solution would be logical if the Assembly had done it by voting, and that's fine. But I don't think it's a good idea to bid the names of the last call right now and say what was controversial about one or another solution. As you would probably all agree here that it was very important in certain key moments, when it was debated about Kosovo, once again and again, knowing that, on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a long prepared resolution on Kosovo, and you see that today, thanks to one single voice, Lord Russell Johnson has been re-determined as rapporteur of Kosovo, which may be at the next meeting of the political committee in Kiev, which is in May, once again, to come out with some of his crazys and uncles, our way was to act. At this point, I couldn't go back, nor would it be good to return to the problems that existed and lead to a specific way of sending a delegation out of the last term. It's simple, I urge that the further discussion does not raise that question. The congregation, or this state, had to find a way to react. I'd close that question. As for the second part of my replica, it refers to a small part of Milos Jevtic's exposure, which does not touch this issue, but is political observations about forming a ruling coalition. I can't forbid anyone from having their own experience of what exists here, but most in the Assembly were defined for one single opportunity, about one single point, and that's the end -- the election of the president of the National Assembly, by logic and in the way we've explained 100 times so far. And the assembly majority that determines Serbia's political direction, which is defined through the executive authorities, because the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading the state policy, is not defined in the National Assembly. I repeat, since we talked about it the previous day, I don't think there's really a need, whatever it is that we're replicating or whatever way to respond to this exhibit of mine, that we're still going on about it. I repeat this again, as I have said through the replica of Mr. Vladan Batic, I have only done today once and more during today, I will not repeat it, whatever replicas and reactions this exhibit of mine has caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u643	Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently, this day has much better dynamics than yesterday. I'm happy about that. The assembly works a lot, I think, calmer and better exchange arguments. It is the third or fourth time that the objection of the People's Messengers is repeated that you are from the seat of the chairman, assuring us that, behold, there is no one to replace you in the chairmanship of the National Assembly. I must tell you, I disagree with your interpretation. I don't know what function the boy on your right, the MP, our colleague, is sitting next to you. You know that the vice-president helps the vice-president, that when there are no vice-presidents, this is what the youngest MPs do, that in the process of establishing the Assembly, when elected speaker, those who helped the chairman stay here to help the president until the vice-president is elected. Please, if the secretary sits on your left, explain to us the function of the MP sitting on your right. Secondly, your parliamentary group has 80 MPs. Is it possible that there are now no MPs who can come out and answer the topics that are being run here, but you have to give political observations from that place? Third, many controversial things were in Parliament's previous session on how to conduct sessions and the legality of work. I didn't notice that, as Serbian radicals, you stood up to it. As far as this new assembly of Parliament is concerned, I have to testify to you, regarding our international co-operation, the following things. Mr. Aligrudić... Mr. Nikolic, would you be so kind as to ask the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to refrain from this throw. Here, Mr. Spaho, I now call him, come out, Spaho, for the pay phone, say what you have. Who else? Here, I'm gonna call all of you, so if you're not allowed out, I don't know what the problem is. The Faith of Radet, here, here, here, I call the Faith of Radet a special name. So, don't like this, what this looks like. I would ask you, in the spirit of good parliamentary work, to refrain from commenting and bickering with MPs from the position you are now in. Mr. Aligrudic, I would simply ask you, what is this principle and how this principle did not apply three months ago, why don't you choose Mr. Nikolic three months ago as president of the National Assembly? How did that principle come to you now, how it didn't come to you in 2004, when you chose the Martian as interim president, how does that principle not apply to you when we need to form a government, so you don't let it be from our parliamentary group, which is the largest, but from yours, which is far less? What are the principles that rule in the Democratic Party of Serbia, if they are the same to you both DS and the SRS, all the same to you, just for someone to welcome you to be with them in government. Don't tell us, Mr. Aligruditch, about principles. The Democratic Party of Serbia at this point, on our political scene, has the least right to talk about any principles. I hope the voters who voted for the DSS will understand that very quickly. As you can see, there are political parties that have their own ideology, their own politics. The Democratic Party has its own, and that is the way of Europe, the European way, the modern state, modern, rich, and so it has been 17 years. Serbian radicals have their own policy, I think of it all the worst, but they stick to that policy for 17 years. However, when it comes to the DSS, I would really like someone to finally explain to us what your policy is, whether your policy is radical, whether your policy is democratic. You have to explain -- what your policy is, and that's the best principle to show how you actually act. At this point, I don't know what your policy is. To Europe? Against Europe? For Democrats or Radicals? Tell me what the DSS policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u644	Mr. Markovic, I am obliged to answer and direct you. You're not listening to me, so you're gonna make a mistake again. So one of the youngest MPs from each of the parliamentary groups helps me in my work. Just because you don't let your youngest MP sit here, that's your problem. The SRS has allowed its youngest MP to sit next to me and help me with my work, so you can't ask me at all where he comes from or what he's doing, so it's a business order. The business provision is that one of the youngest MPs from the four parliamentary groups is sitting next to me. I wish all four of them would sit next to me. When one of the MPs mentions me and talks about me personally, I have to answer. I repeat, if I leave this booth, there is no session of the National Assembly. You know that very well. That's right, there's no one to give me a word, he's just helping, he doesn't have the right to run the session. Now, let's say he brings you some of the paper that I'm sending you or he can take over some of the paper that you're sending me. It's help in the work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u645	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for two years, and it seems to me, for two months, I was, as you know, the head of the National Assembly and, at the same time, the head of our delegation to the Council of Europe. I have to tell you that in time, when the state community stopped existing, I had one long conversation with Mr Markovic and that I tried to explain to him then, I don't know if he passed it on to other MPs, and I'm afraid he didn't, that there's not just one delegation in the Council of Europe. There is a total, i.e. This assembly will urgently have to elect eight delegations, because so many congregations exist, that I don't list all these congregations, it's the OSCE, it's the NATO Assembly, it's a very important Assembly of the Black Sea Initiative, etc. He'll have to choose them. I must tell you, if this is about the Council of Europe, that as Serbia, we had nine representatives there, five came from Montenegro. Now this assembly has 14 representatives, or seven plus seven, and by the rules of the Council of Europe, there is no whether or not we want to, we have to choose a delegation and I think it's time for this assembly to choose all eight delegations. The general rule is that delegations form proportionate to the assembly's composition. So what percentage of MPs is that percentage of members are also in the delegation. As soon as we've finished establishing the Assembly, we have to realize that one of the first jobs that must be done is to form all delegations. In fact, regardless of whether or not we will have an election, some state affairs, often, unfortunately very important, I say unfortunately because, for example, it is a question of Kosovo and Metohija, European integration, etc., they cannot wait. We may be able to go to the election 17 times in a row, but that's why the world won't stop exist. So you take this as a replica to all those who spoke on this subject. The Democratic Party of Serbia will surely ask the president of the Assembly to, once we have completed the constitution of this assembly, one of the first jobs is just the formation of these delegations. I'd like to say something to Mr. Milan about his remarks. You know that it is true that the DSS proposed two months ago to complete the constitution of this Parliament and to choose, so to say, even if the interim president of Parliament, to some general consensus, simply, so that, apart from the president of the state, we could, on the one hand, have another serious state institution that, in the case of "don't God", could meet. You, unfortunately, refused. Since the deadline for the constitution of Parliament has been set, we have considered it an instruction that, in line with that, I do not repeat Monday's discussion, in line with all this, we allow Parliament to function normally. As for Mr Markovic's remarks that, if he wants to say something, he should come for this speaker, that is correct, but provided he has the elected vice president, or vice president. It seems that in this Houseman there is a way for everyone to talk and throw away what comes to his mind. I don't think that's good. Therefore, if we were a little more efficient, and I don't understand at all why it was necessary to open this kind of discussion of a formal issue -- if we were to vote for the vice presidents, all the parties who suggested it, if we had done it and those vice presidents were sitting at this table, then I would be in favour of it, and I would totally agree with Mr. Markovic that if the President had anything to say, he would come for this speaker, as well as any other MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u646	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u647	Mr. President, Mr. Shami, obviously, we interpret the Rules of Procedure differently. I've expressed my opinion and I don't see any logic in the fact that a gentleman sitting on the President's right hand can't help the work. I cannot believe that the aim and spirit of the Rules of Procedure was to add papers to the president of the National Assembly, pouring water or something else. But the president is president and president at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, and I will stick to it. All I have to do is ask the president to refrain from commenting too much on the presentation of the MPs. Mr. Shami, I had the opportunity, or the trouble, to hold talks in this national assembly with Mr. Aligrudic, whom I have now asked to stay, and he went out, so he was Mr. Aligrudic and the G17 gentlemen, just about continuing the constitution of the National Assembly. We have proposed that the president of the National Assembly be someone from parties who negotiated until the other day on the formation of a government, a party whose policy was dominant from 2000 until the other day in this country, some of the parties whose policy is the continuation of the continuity of EU accession. At least we thought we had that policy until the other day. We thought it was good, not only to establish Parliament, but not to question our commitment to European integration, whose foundations were hit seven years ago. Mr Aligrudic said that the DSS is not acceptable to the constitution of parliament without a comprehensive agreement on the government of the Republic of Serbia. If that was an argument then, tell me, is the comprehensive agreement on the formation of the Serbian government now with the SRS? According to information heard in this home, Serbian Radical Party officials are currently in The Hague, consulting their president to respond to the offer, rather than asking the Democratic Party of Serbia to agree to form with you the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Nikolic, I know you'll probably have something to say about this, but I will, indeed, protect you as an MP, perhaps with the greatest experience here, as a functioner and politician. Do not call Mr Nikolic the president of the National Assembly technical. He's your partner, he's our colleague, and he deserves you to respect him a little more. I don't see why you're doing anything, and then you're ashamed of what you did. That's no longer our problem, but I think it's a question for Tomislav Nikolic-- why he agrees that you humiliate him in that way. I will remind you that, when the vote to elect the president of the assembly, except that or three DSS and the NS MPs, we could not hear who they were voting for. So, it was quiet, through the teeth, the heads down, the left, the right, and nobody got up nice and said, "Yes, I vote for Tomislav Nikolic to be the president of the National Assembly." Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, this is a question, first of all, for you and I hope you think about it. So I don't agree that this gentleman behind me is the technical president. The gentleman behind me is the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the will of the MPs of the SRS and the DSS. Stand behind your decision to be the president of the National Assembly, and we will respect Mr Nikolic as the president of the National Assembly and we will fight to make it as short as possible, because our political option, our idea is directly opposed to the ideas of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u648	The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, one of the reasons why the Liberal Democratic Party did not propose its candidate for vice president is because we stand at the point that the majority formed in this House is anti-European, moreover, and Europhobic. Yesterday, Parliament's president unequivocally expressed the political concept of the majority in this parliament, saying that Serbia will never be a colony of the European Union, but, on the other hand, expressed regret that Serbia is not a Russian province. What needs to happen today in this House is the selection of board members. One of these committees is also the Committee on European Integration. Since we saw yesterday what your political concept is, I am addressing the political majority, I suggest we not vote on this committee, or the Committee on European Integration should be abolished. The reason is that there's something to be done on the Committee. You have proposed your candidates, but your candidates will not work on European integration. Moreover, I suggest you build a committee on Middle Eastern integration or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u650	Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u651	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda is a continuation of the constitution of the National Assembly and of its organs. It is clear that, according to the democratic practice that exists in this House, and according to what the common political mind requires, the parties that have received citizens' support in the past elections, according to their strength and size and support, have the right to participate in the work of the assembly bodies. That is why I do not dispute the right of any political party to propose its representative for one of the functions currently vacant, to which we should elect one of the MPs. I can't help but think that this parliament is slipping into autocracy, in self-will, that from the beginning of this session, it has been breaking the Rules of Procedure, the rules of conduct, and I'm afraid we're going towards this parliament starting to look like a party party. The party's contemporaries appear here, flagrantly breaking the Rules of Procedure, giving the party's comrades three times the time during the replicas. So, in one subtle way, the members of a party are favored here, with the aim of creating a basis for a pre-election campaign. What stands as a background and motivation for this fill-up of very significant state functions is that, so far, our partners in government-building negotiations have led a double policy, a public and a secret. The secret policy has been present in this parliament since the previous term. I have repeatedly pointed out exactly what decisions we can determine that this political majority existed a few years ago, and that negotiations with the Democratic Party were only an alibi that the party belonged to the democratic bloc and that before the world and the citizens who swore to the democratic values on 5 October show that they accept the option for some possible elections for Parliament. What I particularly want to point out is that the Democratic Party has proposed its candidate for Parliament's president, Mrs Milena Milosevic. At a time when this parliament was to be formed, the explanation was that there was no choice for Parliament's president until the majority was made to elect a future government. In pure analogy, using logic, we conclude that the conditions for the election of the President of Parliament have now been obtained, precisely because there is an agreement on the formation of the Republic Government. Please, Serbian citizens, it is not an acceptable excuse that Serbia must have an institution. The institutions of Serbia have, but the character of these institutions, as they behave, what message they send to citizens of Serbia and the international community, are very important for both the position and national and state interests. We have witnessed, back a few days, that the value of listed companies has dropped drastically, that Serbia's enforcement has begun, only because we have sent a message of uncertainty, only because there are some who speak here with hate, because primitiveism and intimidation are methods in political struggle, and the political ideology that uses this methodology is national socialist. Please, Serbian citizens, it is not an excuse for any behavior when you say - I am a Serb, this is Serbia and Kosovo will be Serbian. Such words cannot be swindled on Serbian citizens and they cannot push their back political ideology. Serbian citizens, to remind you, have declared a democratic idea in the last elections. They voted for those who promoted the democratic idea back 15 years, for all those who fought on October 5th. I must say that this democratic idea lives and that attempts to stop this democratic idea, to stop the process of democratisation in Serbia by killing Prime Minister Djindjic, have failed. Therefore, a democratic idea will live. I get a lot of calls from citizens around Serbia these days, especially from the south and east of Serbia. I must tell you that citizens are very concerned about the political developments in Parliament and they are wondering what political course will take exactly the most significant state institutions and parties that play a significant role in the work of these institutions. They're worried about this development, they're worried about their future, about their children's future. The hate speech, the calling of people, the labeling in the worst possible way, the citizens condemn it. They sent me a message saying we shouldn't look like the kind of people who talk like that from this pay phone. I fear that the development of events and the path that this Parliament is going to right now is going to order those who have primitiveism as a method of their political struggle, those whose extremism is the means and purpose of political struggle, whose extremism itself is the goal, because that can lead to people being deceived, and, above all, by those who are less informed and who may be less educated. It is precisely the social role of politicians to inform those who are least educated, least informed, of the most significant factors that should be the basis for creating state and national policies. We fight for open society. I expect this parliament to talk about how the development of all parts of Serbia will be balanced, citizens expect laws that will raise Serbia's economy and that will allow an increased economic initiative, the creation of new jobs, one fuller, more correct, fairer protection of all citizens' rights against state institutions. I can't agree with some things, but I won't say names. If I challenge the replica, I'll think someone identified themselves. I do not think it is possible for the president and vice-presidents of the Assembly to be elected persons, regardless of which party they come from, which are the rules of the most disorder, to abuse the position of MPs, to water the former President of Parliament, to those who have been punished by the competent authorities in Parliament for cursing, insulting and falsely labeling MPs, contrary to all the rules prescribed by the working procedure in Parliament. I can't understand that some who consider themselves representatives of a democratic idea, with their voice, have supported exactly this kind of historical flow in the movement of our institutions and our state, but, however, I think it's a democratic idea that will overcome all these processes. I expect that citizens will now recognise the position of individual political parties in relation to the values they advocate. We're not in favor of function here, we're in favour of values. Functions are transient, MPs are passing matter, some will be, some will leave here, some will be there for more mandates, but they will remain remembered for what ideas they have promoted in this House. I fear some will be ashamed of the difference between what they say and what they represent in the elections and what they do in this House. I fear that the citizens of Serbia have been deceived by individual political parties in the previous elections because they represented themselves as representatives of the democratic bloc. The democratic bloc is now very simplified. Serbian citizens recognize that. Many are ashamed of their party leaders who support those ideas they have fought against and for which they sacrificed both health and life on October 5th, when there could have been bloodshed, but, fortunately, there was no such thing. I also believed that the democratic processes were inevitable and that the reform would continue, that we would reform the system of state authorities, that we would implement decentralisation, that we would bring the government closer to the citizens, that we would give up all together, in all institutions, acts of authority and put them down to lower authorities, in order to control the behaviour of each of us more clearly and transparently, so that the officials would be more accessible to Serbian citizens for criticism, for impeachment or for subsequent elections. I advocate these values and I tell the citizens of Serbia that the DS will behave in this way in the future. In this House, we will refrain from the difficult words, and we will argue with the criticism of our idea, the principles we have established in our programme and which we stand for in every place. No worries, no fear, although there is a threat, on a party order throughout Serbia, to highlight party flags, where some party members say their five minutes came. I tell them - they're right, in historical terms, it's only five minutes. Otherwise, the idea of democracy has no time limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u652	Since it is my duty to hold order at the session and to care for the dignity of the National Assembly, I have not missed the insults you have spoken, I have not missed that you have accused your political rivals of being nationalists. Don't ever accuse anyone of speaking hate again. You have spoken the most difficult words of hatred that exist in the history of modern civilization. You accused your political rivals of being Nazis, so please, in the future, when you're told the hard words, remember the words you say. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u653	Dear colleagues, I have to address you on a claim made here again, following Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election as president of the Serbian Parliament, and which can be dangerous. It's about spreading a completely unfounded misinformation, which is called and appears to be a stock market failure and a decline in actions in all those organisations that take care of securities of value. The night Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was elected, at that historic moment, Mr. Canak came out with one Internet information, saying the price of action had begun to drop. Not wanting to react, because as a Serbian radical, I never deliver unverified information, I left time to see if anything really happened, and it is not uncommon for a variety of political events to affect the movement of actions. I checked. I heard in the hallway that a colleague from the ranks of those who call themselves a democratic block, a phone, was telling someone about a recent stock market crash, and I didn't feel called and obliged to react when someone in the hallway said that. But when information is repeated behind this speaker that the economy is being insulted and that it is failing, because Tomislav Nikolic has been elected as Parliament Speaker, I must, as an economist, respond. Do you really dare to present such news, believing that there is not enough written economists and businessmen in this country to monitor the daily movement of the stock market index? I think it's a shame that you present yourselves to the citizens as protectors of their interests, and you deceive them by providing such information. If you didn't know, last week's way of showing stock values and tracking indexes has changed. The way it reflects on very small jumps and downs in stock value is not yet explained, nor defined, nor investigated, nor could it be, because it is new. Why don't you tell the citizens that many of these actions have recently been on the market for the first time and have experienced a multiple increase in value - up to 300%, starting with the actions of the Novi Sad Fair, "Policy" or the like. It is a common phenomenon, and stabilising these actions and small declines, which have completely coincided with what is happening in Parliament, must not serve you as an excuse for claims that something wrong is happening in this country. On the contrary, we expect improvement in this way. I'm just going to add one important piece of information. By adopting the International Trust Fund Treaty, which you accepted for 6m euros donations to implement privatisation in 2001, in November, in the Federal Assembly, when you were able to adopt as DOS, all the paths and routes that privatisation is being made to date have been drawn up, and so that agents choose foreign donors for you, that they determine which consultants, legal advisers and financial advisers will make decisions on privatisation. That's when the sunbeam of the economy started. Don't, please, deceive the citizens in this sense, because I'm really going to be able to expose you a little longer, and I'm going to take more time and explain your lies to this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u655	Since Mr Ristic, among other things, invited people who are involved in politics to help those who do not know or are uninformed, I felt called to help Mr Ristic learn some things about the Serbian Radical Party. I'll read you some things from the 1991 SRS software declaration. I think it'll help you gain a little more insight when it comes to the SRS. Here, he says, "The Serbian Radical Party, acting as a highly democratic political organisation in terms of a multi-party system and opting exclusively for peaceful methods of political struggle, announces to Serbia and the whole world that our basic political goals are to restore a free, independent and democratic Serbian state in the Balkans, to establish a parliamentary democracy, in which people, through their free and permanently elected representatives," etc. etc. So, Mr. Ristic, when you come out and try to get sympathy for the electoral body you're talking to, don't use the lies, because it'll come back to you as a boomerang. Not remember the time of October 5th, I've been trying to explain it to you all along, for nothing good, but for the things you've done and for which you've reversed this Serbia. Be pleased that Serbia's Parliament has finally won the right representative of the democratic political party, the Serbian Radical Party, and you see that you have the opportunity to express your views, your opinions without any problems, to try to obstruct, which is your legitimate right. We don't mind it, you're not interested in the course of the session taking place the way it happens. We are prepared to do so, using our right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Unlike you, we don't punish, we don't throw the messengers out of the O.R. You did all this, on a day, two, a month, a few months, you took hundreds of thousands of dinars from the messengers, because you punished them because they did not speak as you will and acted as you will. We also felt that this was our legitimate right, as we today consider this to be your legitimate right, but it is not the right days to be false. It's already things that are cut out both with morals and with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u656	Are you giving up? He can't. You were the first to ask for a word. He asked for a word from the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u657	Mr. President, just one intervention in terms of figures spoken by counterpart Jorgenka Tabakovic. So we can't argue that what happened on the stock market is a result of political events, but we can't say what really happened on the stock market. And on the stock market, what you can read by opening up the website of Belex and in all the daily newspapers, that on Monday the stock dropped by 5% and that it was the biggest, extreme fall in the last two years, that is, all the time since the Belgrade Stock Exchange existed. These are exact data. Anything else we can say, words can change, forget. What else happened? Since 7 March, the daily course of dinars is determined on the basis of offers and demand for foreign exchanges of business banks. For the first time in two months, the National Bank, the central bank, had to intervene forcefully to prevent dinar depression and intervened with 37m euros on Monday to avoid further dinar jumps. These are facts, and because of what happened, all of us remain to evaluate subjectively from our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u658	Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, then Vladan Batic. Did anyone else ask for a word? Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u659	Members of Parliament, Technical President of the Parliament, Mr Nikolic, I had to react because Mr Todorovic called the MPs of the Democratic Party not to speak the truth. He's denying himself. There are negatives, negatives and truths in Serbian. We're not telling the truth. Just say it - don't tell the truth. On the other hand, Mr. Technical President, as your coalition with the DSS calls you, I must tell you that Mr. Ristic has not named anyone, no parties exist in the political skies of Serbia and what is currently happening with Serbia, but, therefore, I must say that I have heard nothing worse than what you said, which is that you called the president of Serbia a Ustasha. It is hard for you to have the right to qualify for the weight of spoken words, given that here, in the last session of Parliament, you have struck a man who has been turned his back. You hardly have the right and the ability to say how you should behave here, when your candidate for the Technical Vice President of the Assembly was watering the then president of the Assembly. It is hardly possible for you in any way to teach us a lesson in education, behaviour or parliamentaryism, because that is all that the Serbian Radical Party has done. I am sure that during your technical presidency your colleague will not wear those pajamas they wore in the House of Parliament, but I am also sure that your choice is no better for Serbia and that it brings us back not in 2000, but in 1991.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u660	Then I'd have to apply to the patent office. How did I punch a man in the head in the face? How did I do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u661	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u662	You have no right, since logically you can't prove to me that I hit a man with my back on his chin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u663	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u664	You'll get your word when Mr. Batic is finished. I've already given Mr. Batic my word. Sit down and you'll get your word. And you, Batic, can't tell who's going to talk. Here you go, Mr. Batic. The next is Mrs. Pesic, so your replica, Mr. Sutanovci.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u665	Mr. President, first of all, I'm going to say a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you've now provoked her. So yesterday I mentioned that it is your obligation to maintain order in Parliament, on the one hand. But, on the other hand, if you want to answer the word, report and come here, you use, or abuse the position of President of the Assembly. With every MP, you practically replicate. You comment on every statement. You do not have the right to do so and thus do not preserve Parliament's dignity. Mr. Nikolic, you're not an offended village bride or offended neighbor who chats over the fence, you're not behind the counter, so you can flaunt with the customers. That's not how it's gonna work. The second thing I came out of it is, with all the respect of Ms Tabakovic's expertise, the fact that not all people are experts in stock issues. I admit I didn't, but about those things I don't professionally do, I'm trying to inform myself, especially today, at a time when you can easily get information, so on the website of the Belex, you see growth or decline in stock market values, growth or decline in bank shares, etc. So I see you already have this association with the uninformed, uninformed and that you are already suffering the consequences of it. Why? Because when you go into that site you see that this is true. It is difficult to establish a direct correlation, but the election of Parliament's president is a culmination of a political crisis that has been going on for several months, of course, not in an absolute relationship, but in a direct causal relationship with the situation on the stock market. That's not what I'm saying, because I'm not an expert, but I listen to what experts say. Take today's newspaper, and you will see the statements of Professor Milan Kovacevic, Professor Stojan Stamenkovic, Professor Yuri Bajec, Mr Aleksandr Miloradovic of the Foreign Investment Agency, and you will see that it is also about the choice of the President of Parliament with the situation on the market. So my advice to you is - don't hang out with the uninformed and the uninformed, because you can see that there are immediate consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u666	Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u667	I have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u668	Take the stenogram, I said, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word has Mrs. Pesic, while you were speaking. Before you came forward Mrs. Pesic. After her, you go, and that's what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u669	With the whole issue of electing Parliament's president and then vice president, I would like to replicate Mr. Todorovic. First of all, because he didn't say anything when he quoted, and I think the statute of the Serbian Radical Party is good -- the programme. He quoted and cited that the Serbian Radical Party is governed by democratic principles in forming a Serbian state. You didn't say - which Serbian states. That's a very big problem. I fall into those who have always claimed that the Serbian state is Serbia. If we had worked all those years, since 1991, to develop democracy in Serbia and to solve those difficult problems that existed in Kosovo, not to abandon everything like that and to do all that was done all the time, we would not have been here. You did not work to create a democratic Serbian state, but you participated in the Chetnik movement and the formation of paramilitary formations and your Serbian state is that – Karlobag-Virovitica, etc. Such a Serbian state cannot be formed democratically. That's why our only country, the one you talk about very often, is the state of Serbia, in the state in which it is today. You did not specify which Serbian state, and I know very well which Serbian state you meant. As you know, neither exists nor could be democratically formed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u670	Mr. Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u671	You told me to explain to you how you hit a MP in the neck with your back. It's like I have to explain to you how you, like a man who didn't carry a gun, became a duke. That's the kind of thing you need to explain, I don't have an explanation, but I know you haven't denied it, you've confirmed that you've been hitting a fellow MP, it's said, on your chin. I didn't see it, but I know you hit him from behind, that's definitely what happened. After that, you are selected by colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia, who are now ashamed, so there is no one in this hall, at least I see no one, who could replicate and respond anything, to support you in any way, but we are here arguing with you, who represent not only the Serbian Radical Party, but the whole coalition. I think that, after all this trouble to lead the Assembly, you should behave and lead the congregation in the manner that is appropriate to the Assembly, which is that you do not replicate to the MPs. We'll choose the vice president, or you'll choose the vice presidents, so you'll have a chance to break down with us, but not in the way you abuse that place you're sitting in, by being sufflified by the gentleman next to you, because he's adding papers to what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u672	Don't speak in your words, say lies about me. I won't have to throw anything at you. But if you go out there and start talking about me, let me answer. I guess that's normal human rights. Why did I now give you the right to answer what you didn't like about what I was saying? Whenever one of you mentions me, and I think he's telling the truth, that he has compromised my dignity and my right, I will answer. When I have a chance, I'll answer from the pay phone, until I have a chance, and I'll answer from here. You put up with me like this if you can, and if you don't, file a motion for me to be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u673	Thank you, President, for giving me your word. I think it would be interesting for the public to consider whether in this country the most important institutions such as BIA or former state security are the most important institutions, in fact, the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration, the National Bank and the Tax Police. I claim to everyone and to the public that these are more financially important, but not in the way they try to present it to us in data like this, call it, a drastic decline in the value of action. Not that I doubt it, dear colleague, but I have a lot of reasons for that. From 2001 to today, only individual experts, just similar journalists and only some newspapers could write about financial problems. Only certain people, and the chosen ones, those who have popularized politics whose consequences we all suffer today, could find the right place for their vote. One of the excellent journalists, whom I have respected in my time, a certain Tanja Jakobi from opposition times, do not ask me where she works today - a spokesman for Mr Jelasic at the National Bank. So when Mr. Jelasic announces at a press conference that he did, he did not do himself, but he made a loss, of 10 billion dinars, due to the allegedly expensive monetary policy he had to do, what you say, to pull dinars from optics, no newspaper publishes it, except for one, which I won't popularize. They're all paid, by autocensorship or directly paid, to keep quiet about it. When he says that we, all citizens, all taxpayers, will have to capitalize on the National Bank, because it's a loss of, he says 10 billion, and what is it, we will determine when we talk about the budget! Why do I want to say this? The national bank made a loss by trading on the line, in direct connection with the selected banks, selling cash registers when it declared the state target a single-digit inflation of 9%, and sold them at a price of 24%. When it reduced the interest rate to 18%, it allowed the defendants to earn the burden on all of us huge money. Do you know why the National Bank did that store on the line? Because Mr. Dinkic, with his friends from a small collective and those who directed the energy mafia, sold National Savings Bank shares in one such store at a triple the price they had on the market. Please let me tell the public for the first time how it was possible. A software scam, called stopping time, blocked purchase orders at a predominant price, and it was possible to make such a scam. Who was responsible for that? One of the only brokers whose card made that software scam. From this experience, who guarantees me that the international community is not helping you to challenge the work in Serbia's interest, showing a completely deliberate and distorted situation on the Belgrade Stock Exchange?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u674	Dear Mr. President, I would like to inform my esteemed colleague, Jorgenko, that she explained to economic analyst Vujadinovic what he wrote in at least 400 columns in the daily papers "Today" and "The Voice of the Public". Therefore, Mrs Tabakovic, I suggest you read Mr. Dragan Vujadinovic's texts. There's three books called "Inverse Economy." It's not true what you said, that you are the first to publicly publish it. In these texts, it reported many times that the Central Bank, through the capitalisation of Cachanska and the Commercial Bank, and through the sale of state cash registers and government bonds at the reference interest rates of 24%, which now went down to 11.5%, damaged the state by 600m euros. That's all there is to it. That money went somewhere, and that's what Dragan Vujadinovic wrote. Also, Dragan Vujadinovic wrote about various "emes" that dictated the flows of Serbian economy, in connection with the Government of Divac case, where it reported on these all-powerful "emes" that conduct Serbia's economy, Serbia's economy, and probably on the ground floor or underground, andergrand, and Serbian politics. Therefore, I refer you to the texts that have already been published. In any case, we don't appear as protectors or some who don't know about the information you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u675	Dear President, I can accept the argument that you have not seen my announcement, but I have repeatedly tried to contact you, because Mr. Todorovic has been given the right to a replica, although I have not mentioned any party, any MPs of reputation. In any case, I do not dispute that part of my presentation also referred to the Serbian Radical Party as regards the ideological orientation and way of leading this parliament. I really believe that you are in charge of your party's members and that by manipulating the giving of words, you are just determining the flow, intensity and accent of the presentation of certain MPs, to help the Serbian Radical Party's MPs to continuously, with mutually party support, make their views known. I have no objection to this mutual support, but I want to say something else. Part of my presentation has just been confirmed by Mr. Todorovic's exposure. Imagine, he says, "You can talk about this phone booth, you have no problems." Is it understood that I should have some problems because I express my views on this speaker? No MP must or may not have any problems over what he says here, unless, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has offended someone or otherwise treated other MPs and institutions of the state. We've heard so many offensive words here at the expense of the president of the state as an institution. I'm not talking about Mr. Boris Tadic, I'm talking about the president of the state. By demeaning the country's president's institution, you demean all Serbian and state interests. I find that inadmissible. I don't disrespect the President of the Assembly. I did not say a bad word about Mr Tomislav Nikolic, but I pleaded with him about the way he chaired this assembly. I don't agree with that. So really ugly things happen in this congregation. There were some rolling around the floor, force was applied to continue the session, but it was never said that one party or one man would throw someone out, punish them, and you just said that. You said -- we, some of us, some of you, are not going to punish you for how you express yourself about our representatives, about our policy. So this isn't a private institution. This is the institution of the Serbian citizens, which we represent. We are responsible for doing that function that the citizens have chosen us for, both in front of the citizens and in front of the parties. In the election, we measure ourselves in terms of how we acted here and what ideas we represented. I ask you to refrain from any twisted threats to any of the MPs in the future. No one will be afraid, everyone will be able to express their views openly and we will compete here with the power of the arguments for citizens' favor in trusting public authority in the management of state institutions. I've been doing this on purpose, and I'm willing to have a reasoned discussion about all the differences that exist between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u677	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that Mrs. Tabakovic did not dispute any of those arguments that I presented in my previous address. The truth is, I want to say that Mrs Tabakovic is right, although that is not the subject of the whole controversy. As for the functioning of the National Bank, the issue of cash registers, abuses, the holding of cash registers, the enormous wealth of some people close to people who had a financial monopoly back several years, I also addressed Prime Minister Kostunica, and former Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and National Bank Governor Jelasic, as well as the question of where the country's foreign reserves are. Could they be at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow? What's going on with that money? Is that money spinning on the stock market and on the market? What are the damages of these abuses, or what is the benefit, but not of the states of Serbia and its citizens, but of the friends of financial powers? There's no answer to that question. I just wanted to say, for the sake of truth, that Mrs Tabakovic was right about that. Thank you. I forgot to ask the president -- that it wasn't broken, but a parliamentary majority formed? I don't see any representatives of your new partner anymore in this room, and I see you're a little concerned, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u678	I'm not worried at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u679	Mr. Ristic, all the promises I made in the previous presentation stand. I promise something else, if it depends on us, no matter how long the assembly of this Parliament lasts, he will have 250 MPs and no more. At the time you were chairman of the Administrative Board, there were 308. Serbia expects only one simple thing to explain how it is possible for this parliament to have 308 MPs at the time of DOS, or Democratic Party, in power? How was it possible for MPs who resigned in writing to MPs to remain MPs? Perhaps they could have been in legal error, but Mr. Ristic could not have been in such error; he allowed the Serbian Parliament to function with 308 MPs for a long time, until the moment that Western Europe, the one you swear to do so, did not order you to return the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia to parliament. To take the opportunity to answer Mrs. Pesic's advice here. As for the programme and policies of the Serbian Radical Party, concerning the Serbian state, Mrs Pesic, don't doubt, you had a chance to see, if you saw Vojislav Seselj's testimony in The Hague, that as far as SRS's involvement in large Serbia is concerned, we will never give up. As long as there is an SRS, we will stand up for the great Serbia. Unlike you, Mrs Pesic, there are political parties and people in the world who accept it, they believe it is our legitimate right, both us as parties and as peoples. Among other things, to inform you that a UN-protected declaration on the position of Serbian people in Republika Srpska was adopted in Strasbourg in January 2006 in the Council of Europe. And to inform you that one of the MPs from the DS, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, did not want to sign that declaration, unlike many other MPs from other countries who did so. As far as Serbia is concerned, it was only here that it was not clear to me when you said you stood up for Serbia in 1990, you did not say and did not explain what Serbia is up for today. Do you favour Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija or without Kosovo and Metohija? That is what is extremely important, not so much for this parliament, as for the citizens of Serbia, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what you personally stand for and the party you belong to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I do not think Mr. Todorovic had the right to re-replicate with regard to my presentation, because I have reported for the replica of his presentation, but it is irrelevant. If it's about manipulation of facts again, you can tell from his exposure. He says there were 308 MPs in Parliament in 2003. That's absolutely not true, because this parliament has 250 seats, so we wouldn't have anywhere to sit. To do something like that, I'll explain in the same words and in the same way as my predecessor, it happened in the previous parliament, and the booklet, the MP, that I have, with my picture. The number on this book is 306. So there were 306 MPs in the last term, but not at the same time. And now you have over 250 MPs on your payroll, you have more, you have all those in your previous term. You have over 500 MPs on the payroll. That's how it happens. Otherwise, what is identical at the beginning of Parliament's work, both in the previous assembly and in this, are temporary presidents. In the last term, we had Mr. Martian, who was elected by the DSS out of spite, with the support of the radicals. And he was the President of Parliament for 15 days. Okay, so there were elected Supreme Court presidents, elected district attorneys, and they're always in the coalition. Out of so many votes, I can't always identify myself when they're in the coalition and what rank they've shown it. It's best to say -- whenever it was necessary, they were there. So, in the last term, the DSS chose the president from the spite of the Democratic Party, Mr. Martian, for 15 days, to return him for a very clear discharge from that post, and now they choose the president for five days. I'm surprised now that there are more calls from the Democratic Party, you're not in the O.R. with your coalition partners, to watch their hips and backs, or you're just showing up right now. So I expect that now that the DS has finally entered the hall, it will mentally defend the values that we have just discussed, polarised like this, the ones on the left and the ones on the right in relation to the pay phone, and these are the political options that are likely to lead the political columns in the upcoming elections, and Serbia's citizens will certainly strengthen this side with their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u682	The apostle called for the absentees. There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. Mr Ristic, I must tell you that in the previous meeting of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament, I had the number of IDs of 1022. They mark regular numbers there in a certain way. As for your number of parliamentary IDs, you should know some elemental things. I'm really amazed you don't know that much. You should remember that this parliament has chosen a delegation to the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, and that is why it has come to this because a new number of MPs have arrived. As for the Serbian Radical Party, it was the most numerous, as well as today. So, Mr Ristic, your number does not mean that there were so many MPs in the Serbian Parliament, but that so many MPs passed through the Serbian Parliament, but they were not at the same time MPs of both the Serbian Parliament and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. He's got Mrs. Pesic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u684	The biggest problem we had during the 1990s, especially with the SRS, is that it never really knew where our state of Serbia was. Even today, Mr. Todorovic, you don't know where Serbia is. We could hear, as yesterday and yesterday, that Serbia could also be a Russian province, that it could be in league with some other countries, which are not Serbia. You're still propagating the same thing. There can't be democracy in Serbia as long as you don't know where our country is. And let me just answer when it comes to what I was saying back then. Let's imagine, we're just doing this thought experiment, that we're like the state of Serbia in 1991, because then all the former republics of Yugoslavia did it, we're looking for our state of Serbia's independence, if we were to recognize at that time within those borders that Serbia had, and then today, and that's, of course, with Kosovo and Metohija. You didn't think of the state of Serbia. You humiliated all of us who stood up for Serbia. We also said then that the state of the Serbian people is Serbia, not Virovitica, not other people's territory, not Knin. These were not our territories, nor are they today, and today you represent the same criterion -- that we have a claim to an independent state. We came all the way here because you stood up for the Serbian state of war, with formations that led to the collapse of any idea of the Serbian state. So that's the problem. And today, you said very well that you did not know where the state of Serbia is, that you believe it is in Virovitica without being on its territory, which is internationally and day-to-day recognised.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u685	He has a replica of the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u686	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there has indeed been a dispute here for a long time over the way MPs are elected and to whom the mandate belongs. Until the adoption of this constitution, which was mostly supported by parties and citizens, the parties in Parliament who supported and participated in the vote of the Constitution, were the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and some famous member of 88, under which the mandates belonged to parties, or voters. Under such a law, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia coalition also submitted its electoral list, and on the basis of a contract of contract members, by decision of the presidency, it was decided on whom the mandates would belong. I must remind you that at that time, during the validity of that law, the Administrative Board respected the provisions of Article 88. I would like to remind you, Mr Todorovic, that the official position of the representatives of the SRS in the Administrative Committee was that the mandates should belong to the parties and belong to the parties in circumstances when parliament is elected in the proportional elections. I find that absolutely logical. I protected this legally prescribed position, and it was my personal position on this very important democratic issue. The Constitutional Court, after establishing the end of the term of office, said that Parliament acted legally, in accordance with Article 88, and in line with the coalition's agreement and decisions, "Together", i.e. DOS coalitions. I remind you here, too, that Mr Kostunica also voted for the first withdrawal of his mandate under that law and agreement. Ljubvoje Slavkovic, then a member of the Social Democratic Party, or Social Democracy, in this parliament, lost his term in a decision that was also voted by Mr Kostunica. The administrative board's decision to withdraw office was signed by the current police minister, Mr Jocic, then vice-president of the Administrative Committee. I don't blame you, because you weren't in Parliament at the time, I'm merely stating the facts. I would remind you of one more thing, that the same ones who objected why the term of office belongs to the parties have now violated the law and decision of the Constitutional Court. The Democratic Party of Serbia has now taken mandates from those who wanted to move to another parliamentary club. The same happened with the G17 Plus party, when two MPs refused to vote for the budget, so the government fell long ago and could not be a technical government either. It was supposed to go to the elections a long time ago, because she had no support in parliament. I want to conclude my presentation with one more attitude. What I stood for as chairman of the Administrative Committee, that is the behaviour that is governed by the Constitution, is now a constitutional solution, because these are democratic principles that have reached the consensus of all relevant political actors in Serbia. That's why I think we should put an end to it sometime. The law changed, the behaviors were different. We respected the Constitutional Court's decision, they returned the mandates based on his decision and there were never more than 250 MPs in Parliament. It's true and it's facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u687	Please introduce yourselves, because of the note.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u688	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that fellow MPs take care of the data that is provided on institutions that are, above all, important for both the state and the citizens. The stock exchange from a few months ago quotes and actions by businesspeople, i.e. companies. This concerns a very large number of citizens, i.e. workers. Mrs. Jorgenka presented two facts that were contrary. The stock market, simply by bringing out certain facts, has caused a problem that more citizens have no security as to how the Stock Exchange works. On the other hand, I'm saying the Stock Exchange doesn't depend on what's going on from Monday to today. It is very important that the chairman draws attention to the MPs that such important institutions, without fact, do not comment on this speaker. If there are certain irregularities in the work of such institutions, I think there is a different order and procedure to react to these institutions and people working in them. The other thing that is important to me, as well as to Bosniaks from Sandzak, is, if it is already said about what kind of Serbia they want today, how fellow MPs from the DSS and the NS see Serbia at this time, at this time, because they were warmly supporting Sulejman Ugljanin and the Sandzak List before the elections and now, and we know how they treated the Bosniaks and us who were in the Sandzak Democratic Party with Rasim, because these things were against us. Here's a chance, here's a chance to say it. How did this love of the prime minister and others that were before, and how do they see Serbia from now on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u689	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Todorovic, pa Obradovic, pa Žutic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u690	Mrs Pesic, I explained everything you asked me, and it is about "great Serbia" and Serbia, but you did not explain or say what I asked you. No, you're not. You didn't say what was important to the citizens of Serbia, for which you advocated Serbia today. Is it for Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija or without Kosovo and Metohija? What you're talking about in 1991, I get it, that's when they told you to say that, because that's when they needed to recognize the republics within the existing borders. They don't need it today. Today they need a unique example in the world, which will not be applied in any other country except Serbia, that part of Serbia, not such a small part of Serbia, will be a new Albanian state in the Balkans. You and your coalition stand for it. That's what's the biggest problem we've got. That's what the West wanted, normally, and Agim Ceku, to get someone in the Serbian Parliament, one of the Serb parties who will advocate independent Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u691	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u692	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that I recognized myself in those present, when Mr. Bosko Ristic said that the audience was informing, because I was present in the O.R., and I was present in 2002, when the Socialist Party of Serbia was deprived of its mandates. For the sake of truth, the Rules of Procedure should be said, in 2002, these views, principles, which Mr. Bosko now promotes, were not applied by his party colleagues. No, they're not. Mr. Sutanovac chaired the Committee's session. I know you forgot, but I didn't. The Committee was chaired by Mr Sutanovac, on the agenda was the withdrawal of the mandate to the DSS and the SPS and a double archinae was applied. The point of the story is that from April 2002 to the Constitutional Court's decision, it seems to me, in the fall of 2003, those six MPs served here, as a spare cavalry, the needs of DOS, the rest of the DOS, to vote for certain things, to make quorum. Once, the state budget was even adopted thanks to those votes. Some received a reward — a trip to Canada, and some were compensated in other ways. It was the DOS's manners -- to make the majority of the assembly, since obviously there were some disturbances within that structure that disrupted most of the year 2000. It is true, black on white, and that exists in the stenograms of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whoever wishes, can be informed, that some MPs resigned, signed people, some went out for this pay phone and said, yes, I am resigning. It was found here, in the National Assembly, by the then president of the National Assembly. It's been established, it's in the record, and then one day they just show up and move. When asked how, for God's sake, it is possible that some people who resigned, which the Assembly has been informed of, because it is only being found, come to the session, Mr. Bosko Ristic, our colleague and an excellent lawyer, apparently, said they were in legal and factual error. I think it will remain part of the novelty that was invented after 2000, which speaks of an absolute pragmatism, of double arches and a system of values. While one is publicly promoted, it is done completely differently in practice. Do not tell us about the congregation majority, about the minority, about the relationship. Don't mention it, please, the Constitution. Don't mention the law. Don't mention article 80. Don't mention it the way you applied it. Whenever you mention it the way you applied it, there are those of us who have been here for a long time, I've been here since 2001, and there are those who are a little longer, we'll be in a position to demystify this story and this behavior, to tell Serbian citizens that things have been completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u693	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u694	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Vesna Pesic pointed out that territories to Virovitica are foreign territory. This is a replica of Mrs. Pesic's exposure. So the territories to Virovitica are other people's territories. It is known that Croatian territories only existed with Broz's withdrawal of administrative borders and the creation of a great Croatia in 1945. It's, as everyone knows, an administrative unit of SFRY. These territories were kidnapped by the Serb people by genocide in 1991 and 1995. The real, historic Serbian territories are not even on the border of the popular Shessel line of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica, but these borders go even further west. So, the ethnographic borders of Serbian Western countries take the line - northern Istria-Peroj-Serbian Moravice-Zumberak and go to Croatia's Zagorje. These are scientifically proven historical boundaries, according to historical statistics of very precise Austrian statistics, gentlemen dear, so that we don't forget. What Serbia has come to these borders is, as is already known, thanks to the great favouring of Croatian politics and Croatian politicians in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u695	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u696	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Assembly, I'm reporting for Mr. Obradovic's exposure, which is false. First of all, it is a false way of giving resignations and a way of trying to take over the SPS's mandates to the MPs of the party. First of all, the MPs did not personally resign, but did so by a third party on their behalf. If the Administrative Board had acted in the same way in the past term, Mr Djokovic, on the basis of a falsified statement, would not have lost his mandate, nor would the G17 Plus gentleman remain without a mandate, as it is clear that someone in the official protocol has seduced the non-existent and falsified statements in order to withdraw his mandate. I'll remind you that a phantom session was held in the last session, attended by some actors here visible and well-known. The session is scheduled on the phone, one minute from the time they were reportedly resigned from the congregation service. So, members of the Administrative Committee from the Democratic Party, Mr. Djidic is present, not informed that there is a session of the Administrative Committee. The person whose resignations were discussed there was not invited and not notified. The basic democratic principle is that everyone has the right to defend against the attack of a legal nature, including each other, and you have not called on those whose mandates you have decided on. The SPS MPs were all in session of the Administrative Committee, if I recall, and you were very present at the time. They pleaded that they had not personally resigned and that a third party had done so on their behalf. No one has the right to resign like that, because resignation is a personal act. If everyone had acted like that, there would have been order in this congregation. However, such behaviour was done by individuals, from case to case, so Mr. Toma Nikolic was awkward and uncomfortable to chair such a session. He left the presidency to Mr Cvetkovic of the DSS, so that he would withdraw his mandates and hold a session one minute after its meeting. It's facts, it's true and all the media know about it. However, because of the habit of constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure, it did not receive such an echo, because President Kostunica was then a fan of individual media. Now, the facts, precisely by your efforts, surface. You can see inconsistencies here. As for the debate that was within the SPS itself, you were in front of the Justice Department about the legitimacy, about which electricity will bear the legitimacy of the party and who has the right to seek the return of the mandate. You were in a dispute and the Administrative Committee was not in charge of resolving this dispute. You know that, you're educated enough. You're like an ideology here for 50 years. We defeated that ideology on October 5th. The attempt to recruit won't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was not ashamed to hold that session, but I didn't know it was being held. Then I dug a well in my village, I had more to do than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u698	You dig once, you always dig until you bury all this. Mr. Obradovic, I must say I disagree with Mr. Ristic, who says you know that. You don't know that. That's my opinion, and don't be angry. You used the argument that they resigned, even, from this pay phone. Well, Predrag Markovic resigned from this pay phone and signed it here, in your eyes, so the next day he came to run the Assembly. Then, as a "horse," you shouldn't have come and said to him, "How are you leading the congregation, man? "Is that how it was? It's not an argument, Mr. Beard. Let's talk facts. Secondly, I must tell you that the Democratic Party of no MPs, no parliamentary group has ever seen as a cavalry, nor do we want to be anyone's cavalry. You've been in last term, now you're trying to be again. It's not good for you. The deal was made, it'll be the minority government of the DSS. You're free to resist, you'll be an opposition, and don't be so hard on your colleagues from the DSS and the SRS, because they won't. Here's your Shormaz here, so ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u699	Mr. Sutanovac, have you learned anything new? Did we really get the government to congratulate that right away? Have you heard from The Hague?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, whenever your name is mentioned, I can see that you are in a lot of pain, but I hope that at least you don't give a shit when they mention other MPs and other MPs. Mr. Obradovic, you have the right to address each other as "you". Please don't do this with our MPs. I understand the Second Light, Comrade Borka, everything is fine, but in front of this assembly, especially in front of DS MPs, we expect due respect. Instead of celebrating 9 March, Europe Day, and 9 March was Europe Day, an attempt to establish Europe Day with us, in fact, 9 May, Europe Day, we are present today at a memorial; instead of raising the flag, we are trying to bury Serbia's democracy. I must confess that Mr. President of the Assembly is leading it. The essence of his election for Parliament's president and the reason he allows this assembly to look like a circus again is that the SRS MPs have as much space as possible. I ask the President of Parliament not to allow us more than the Rules of Procedure allow us, but we want him to apply it to his MPs, or maybe he wants to handle that famous Tito sentence: "Well, we're not going to stick to the law as a drunk float." Please stick to the Rules of Procedure as a drunk float and please strictly apply it. I am not surprised by this desire, there was another such President of Parliament who sat in the same chair, Mr. Martian, did not go through the elections famously, he was third, so I am sure that it will not bring some great fruit. I'm most surprised by my DSS colleagues who are today demonstrating a terrible irresponsibility. It's just Mr. Shormaz, I hope the citizens can see it, none of the 40s and something, 32s, as far as you're concerned, may be from New Serbia, except Mr. Shormaz, I don't see, there's another one I don't know. As far as the DSS is concerned, I am appalled by the irresponsibility and ease with which they turn, they turn right, as we hear, from The Hague, that a possible coalition and minority government, and we have long known that, but it is good that Serbian citizens can see what is actually happening here. It's an amazing amount of irresponsibility. The democratic party of Serbia, in fact, no matter what step they take, is not at all aware of the consequences. Are DSS MPs aware that everything they do, what they adopt here as a law, reflects on someone's real life? You are absolutely not aware of these responsibilities, nor as MPs, nor as a political party. Are you aware, if you destroy, or try to destroy Serbian democracy, how long will it take to fix all this? Are we going to have to make a simple decision, like the transfer of the Assembly or the protection of a journalist, to take thousands of people to the streets? You are today destroying Serbian democracy, you must be fully aware of that. For the fact that you haven't learned to deal with politics in this many years in a responsible way, we can't help you much, but we ask you to come to your senses, and we hope that the court on your choice and your policy at all will give your citizens as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u701	Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u702	Thank you, Mr. President. The less arguments, the more big words and the stronger they shout from this pay phone. It's all nice that the DS representatives told us, there's only one small problem, it's not true. We submitted our request to the Administrative Committee in April 2002, and the Constitutional Court made its decision in the autumn of 2003. The Management Board 15 or 16 months, multiple times, did not want to make a decision about it. When there were no such fictitious MPs, and when there were resignations and there were no resignations, in different situations they acted differently, but the point is, what Mr. Bosko Ristic mentioned, coming out here, to blame another, the story of Article 88. The law on the election of MPs - that the position that political parties owned the mandate did not apply in practice. That's the point. Mr. Sutanovac led one session of the Committee, only one, when most in the Committee did not want to make a decision on the SPS request, and at that session, for example, they did another thing. I'm pointing to those double arches right now. My modest contribution to democracy is to encourage some of the things that have happened in the past to be revealed. And that's a contribution to the development of the Assembly, that we don't have double arches and double rules of conduct in situations that are essentially the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u703	Mr. Dragan Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u704	Your Honor, Mr. MPs, I'll stick to the agenda. I'm not going to talk directly about candidates for the vice presidents of the National Assembly, whom I congratulate in advance on the future election, but I'm going to talk about the times, about the epoch. A fellow Jevtic mentioned an era heading towards Europe, towards European integration, and I will focus my exposure on that era that has been in the last decade of the 20th century and the second millennium, which is starting to look like this modern era. Since words are easily forgotten, since people are weakly remembered, I will stick to the books, the books I mentioned to my colleague Tabakovic, whose author I am, and it is called "Inverse Economy". It starts in 1998 and monitors events by 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u705	Please allow the speaker to quote himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u706	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's best because I can't abuse someone else's words. So, it says here: "Potemkin's villages are a series of villages that Podokin quickly raised in Ukraine along the path that Empress Katarina II was to pass when she went to Crimea. A typical example of the survival of Podkin's villages, the political system and dictators based on them took place in the country of Stradija in the last decade of the 20th century. Sweden's villages, high-speed railways, Europolises, "dafiments" and "jediments" happened daily on RTS, only in real hard life did no one see them. At the end of the fictitious decade, we also got the original Podokin, the MM engineer, who had his villages, bridges, roads, railways, viaducts, tunnels, soloists and other construction ventures radioed or renovated after the bombing as a "joint vent", joint investment with RTS, so that the people could see them and please the king and queen, and in the field what remained. Even a unit was invented to measure the speed of reconstruction and construction, which was called bridge, one bridge in one day. "Dear gentlemen, these are the times. And then, recently, after those times, some similar times came up again. Now this project, the new project, is called "Miki's Highways." Who's Mickey? Here's who Mickey is. Mickey's "we" -- minister, "k" -- capital, "i" is an investment. That Mr. Secretary Mickey was a passenger of a five-octobar gangere a few years ago. The time has come for the passenger of the five-octobarian bugger to completely betray and arrest October 5th. I really congratulate him, like everyone else who joined the betrayal on October 5th. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u707	People's MP, Free Maras. You are the last to be reported from your MP group, you have seven minutes of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u708	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I've had to take my word for it, despite the custom that rules in this House not to be commented by candidates for vice-presidents of the Assembly. To this I am bound, above all, by the confidence of the citizens, by the votes won by the Liberal Democratic Party, and by the mood that exists among the citizens because of what is happening in our assembly because of the election for President Tomislav Nikolic, with the support of the DSS, and this mood is indeed a despair. It is true that the Serbian Radical Party has not changed for 15 years, 17 years, those who entered here 15 years ago. Nor does their rhetoric change, nor will the effects their authority will produce change. And in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, not to order, until 1999, everything that characterized your authority, it was indifference, wars, etc. First of all, I'd like to address the DSS MPs. Unlike the SRS, the DSS has changed, changed for years, and that's worse. You enjoyed the past three years of SPS support and brought us back to Milosevic's time. Now, along with the radicals, you'll bring us back to Sheshelle's time. It's the worst time, hard time. If spite is what leads you, I am convinced that you are guided by the desire to make Kostunica prime minister and to stop the democratisation of this society. Don't worry, Miss Jovanovic, we won't be rude and rude about how you treated the best president this assembly has, Natasa Micic, we won't water. Also, respecting Mr. Mrkonjic's years, I will not comment on his candidacy, but I hope that, as he built before 2000, he will end his term. I agree that it is the right of each party to propose its candidate for vice-president of the Assembly, but these two candidates are mocking a large part of Serbia's citizens, because the candidates who are proposed are returning us to the time of Milosevic and Seselj. Just one more moment. Mr. President of the Assembly, I wanted to point out that you've injured Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because after Mr. Pastor's presentation, you gave Mr. Pastor advice on how to organise national councils in your municipalities. It's not the president's job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u709	I was just calling the law, not giving any advice. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u710	I suppose my colleague Obradovic came forward to mention Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's candidate, but I will not defend Mr. Mrkonjic in such a way that I agree to defend him, to justify the attacks of those who would like to drag him through the mud here. If you want to make sure of Mr Milutin Mrkonjic's character and work, whatever everyone thinks about it, go to the New Sad Bridges and similar things or show the final bill here, in the Assembly, about how you spent the money. I've reported for breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 94. I don't know how you feel, but I think and I feel like someone here is insulting my intelligence. Why do I think that? I've been listening to arguments today, texting people -- well, we're funny. Why does this tribune and I don't know why the chairman allows it at all? He's supposed to be the goal of choosing vice presidents, and we've built a stands where we talk everything and everything. I'm glad that Mr. Nikolic wants to bear all the burden of a democratic story, as everyone here can say, but the procedures are made up just so that, say, like my colleague Srdjan, they can't talk here as much as they want and as much as they want. I call on the president to stick to the procedure, after the arguments. I don't know if this was an EPP colleague, to read his own book, because then he should pay his taxes. I really don't understand. Don't be angry, I don't understand. This is the only place Bane Ivkovic talked about himself in the third person, and you're the second person, I haven't heard anyone, at least what I've seen. What else is interesting here? How, for example, do arguments and problems arise in this congregation? It's not a problem to use logic. When you start from some premises, you have great logic, everything is logical, only conclusions aren't good. That's what every mathematician will tell you. Some examples only, since it's impossible to catch everything, gentlemen. They say the problem is the stock market crash. I agree. Every political change brings this, as some companies' actions have fallen, when Bush attacked Iraq, or vice versa, the actions of the US military industry have grown, because they are part of political change. I'm not going to explain it, but I'm asking you -- how are we not ashamed that our argument is not the biggest robbery in Serbia's history carried out through privatisation and bankruptcy proceedings? Where's the bigger damage? How did we think of the bankruptcy mafia only when the government fell? Could someone from that government have been making it impossible to deal with the bankruptcy mob? Gentlemen, I agree. [[Tossing from the O.R.: You supported it.]] I am very happy that you, healthy and happy have finally returned to Parliament, I think of the Democratic Party, because you have come out of that parliament and it was obviously a political mistake. I'm very glad you're happy, so you're clapping, so you're upset, so you want to show that you're not sad that the democratic bloc didn't make a government, but it's not my responsibility. You've all made DOS and the Democratic Party together, you've done everything, and don't hand it over to the SPS. Let's just say, isn't it hypocritical that it is in public, and also in this House, that the big problem is that the government is funding from the budget spending regulation, and you don't find it problematic that five years in this House have not submitted a final bill for spending budgets. (DS pitches out of the O.R.: You supported her. Which one of us? You. Ma'am, what was your problem looking for? Besides, when you mention it and when you mention responsibility, I'll also tell you the political reasons why the SPS supported Kostunica's government, minority. So that we would not be in power to be DS gentlemen, that there would be no lustration as a deal with political opponents, so that Serbia would be stopped through privatisation, so as to leave at least 60% of the average profit to the pensioners, so, therefore, that's why. I am very pleased that you have received 100,000 votes more and that you have returned to Parliament and I am very sorry that you have already divided ministerial posts, apparently, will not get. We won't, we're not looking for power. The Socialist Party of Serbia wants to be an opposition. Say, Mr. Milivoevich, you're very smart here, you have a chance to come out after me, go ahead. I'd be glad to discuss with one such size as you. Please, colleagues, it's my feeling that everyone will get the impression that we're hypocrites. It is not my goal to criticise here neither the respected professor Micunovic, nor the Democrats, I wish we had made a government of national unity. There's a lot of reasons for that. Last time I told you, Mr. Milan Markovic, let's forget what you think is the most beautiful, the best, the smartest, that you have a monopoly on Serbia's trip to Europe. Parliament is a place where we can talk to each other. I don't think you have the right to that kind of monopoly, and you can look. That's my opinion, maybe it's just modest. Therefore, gentlemen, Serbia is watching us. Serbia expects someone here to say, if it is possible, of course, to choose these vice presidents too, whether we have an agreement in this political elite chosen by the people and placed by our parties, because this is how we rule in Serbia today, whether we have the strength to form a government or go to elections, so all of what we are doing today is illusory.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u711	He has the word Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u712	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bajatovic, I don't think we are the most beautiful, cleverest, nor that we have monopoly ideas about Serbia's accession to the European Union. We simply have our political agenda, we've been sticking to that program for 17 years. We are fully free and openly presenting our political ideas in front of everyone. We do not accuse any of you, nor do we think of you as traitors and foreign mercenaries, nor do I know what you used to say about us. If you, as the Socialist Party of Serbia, are also sharing ideas of Europe and accession, you would do well to show it at work. I remind you that you have not voted in favour of the European Union's accession resolution, which I do not think is good. I called first of all to tell you that you've told one great lie. In 2002, the final account of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, Bozidar Djelic, as finance minister, insisted on it, and then, in 2003, those tragic events -- the murder of the prime minister, the arrival of your government, and since then, we have not really adopted the final account. So, sir, you've been making a parliamentary majority who's had a chance to look for a final account in this National Assembly. I don't dispute your right to say anything you want behind the pay phone, it's perfectly normal and legitimate. I just think it would be correct to stick to some facts. So, I am responsible for this, in 2002, Mr Djelic was Minister and he will come. I think that's what we're talking about on one show. After the show, we agreed that it happened, so I'm asking you to, at the very least, correct that mistake you just said. I didn't, unfortunately, listen to the first part of the discussion. I would ask that you address your colleague Milivojevic with respect, in the same way that we address all other MPs. Every MP has the full right to express his views, there is no need to appreciate whether someone is beautiful or ugly, whether someone's shallow thoughts are less or less. I really don't think there's any need for such assessments of us fellow Members of the People, because such a discussion will lead to nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u713	I fully agree, Mr Markovic, that all MPs in this assembly should be cultural, well-trained and well-behaved. As you have warned me, I ask you to warn certain members of your Parliament club that this applies to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u714	The word is Gordana Komic. He's not here. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u715	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Comrade Bayatovic, are there any other comrades and friends? If not, maybe someone from the Democratic Party... I'm sorry, comrades and comrades MPs. So we have a serious thing on the agenda. I have not introduced myself, perhaps I should, I am Srdjan Milivojevic, MP of the Democratic Party from Kruševec. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Serbian citizens, I need to explain to you why the Democratic Party cannot make its proposal as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must also explain to you what is happening today in Serbia and why the Democratic Party is doing it right now. As you know, a programme, ideological coalition between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, has been created on the political scene of Serbia right now. I know there are no representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the O.R., I don't understand, I apologize to you ladies, they probably went to Shormaz, and the rest of them probably went to get shirts or badges. The Democratic Party and MPs of the Democratic Party were very closely monitoring what was happening during yesterday, during a debate on the election of the National Assembly vice-presidents. Of course, because of everything that has been said, because of the fundamental principles of the Democratic Party and because of the desire to defend one system of values. We really cannot participate in what is happening today in the Republican congregation. If you ever go to Topola, you'll see there, in Karajord's final, that there's a cannon today, and it's called top aberdar, derived from the word aber or messenger. The cannon served to announce important news to Serbian citizens at the time. I already see that Mr. Jocic and Mr. Kostunica, along with representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, are full of cannons, report to Serbia that a single programme coalition has been formed to give the new government. I had the opportunity to listen yesterday to many presentations by members of the Serbian Radical Party. I could see your fascination with the position of President of the Republic of Serbia. I understand your obsession with the President of the Republic of Serbia; you've run that race many times and looked at the back of the Democratic Party, and then -- grapes sour, so it needs to be polluted. Yesterday, you rudely insulted the President of the Republic, who is fulfilling his constitutional powers. By the Constitution, why do you ask by which constitution? Well, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I know the constitution of Russia is nearer to you, but let us represent the Constitution of Serbia in this House, yet this is the Parliament of Serbia, not Russia. Yesterday I heard, and especially today, a few disturbing sentences that the Democratic Party cannot give to the vice president of the Republic Assembly. Yesterday, the president of the Republic Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said he is sorry that Serbia is not a Russian colony. It was confirmed by a representative of his parliamentary group. Today I hear he is not giving up on the idea of a great Serbia, although there are no exactly established borders. As far as I can see, there are certain disagreements in the Serbian Radical Party, whether it's Karlovac, or, even, perhaps more west. Please tell me what means to do it. That Tomislav Nikolic might not call a referendum in Croatia, that they move to that border, or perhaps you will return to Kruševac, Kraljevo, Leskovac, with one 40,000 military calls. Tell me how much it will cost the citizens of Serbia, expressed in money, above all, in human lives. What I don't understand is whether the Democratic Party of Serbia participates in this and gives support to the big Serbia project. The ambassadors of the Democratic Party of Serbia tell me whether it's a new political programme or a turn in your policy and whether you are now aware of why the Democratic Party is currently unable to give the vice-president of the Assembly and participate in it. I need to ask a few questions to the citizens of Serbia. Did you, Serbian citizens, vote for this idea, vote for this when you voted for the Democratic Party of Serbia? I'm sure you didn't. These are the dilemmas that bring about the time in which we live for the political party. Sometimes, between what has been offered as a political programme and what is being implemented in practice, there is a big difference. You from the Democratic Party of Serbia seem to have two morals -- one morale that you preach, but you don't stick to it, and one you stick to is probably not preaching. I think today, on May 9, I can congratulate the citizens of Serbia on the day of victory over Fascism and Europe Day, but I wonder if that makes sense at this time. I understand your pitching, that's what you did when I went out and you mentioned my mother very rudely. That's very rude of you. I see you picked up a broad repertoire of words in the library, where you spent a lot of time when you were little. That's how it just pops out. I must point out that yesterday I listened to several very serious insults at the expense of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. I understand that you have not yet recovered from defeat in the presidential election, and that is why you insult Mr Boris Tadic. That is the main reason why they insult Mr Boris Tadic. Show me one centimetre of Serbian territory that was handed over into alien hands during the rule of Boris Tadic. He's gone, everyone in this room will agree. During your power, I don't know if that's the case, question your conscience. To you, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I must tell you, we will not give the Vice President of the Assembly, and you, as you are caught in the circuit, so play till the end, but I think your round is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u716	Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u717	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many reasons why what you are doing is bad, and I will not address the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. They are people who have their ideas and ideals and fight hard for them. You're a big party. In every city in Serbia, there are people who believe in your ideas. That is why I will address the people of the Democratic Party of Serbia. If Mr. Shormaz goes, then I have no one to talk to. You have one huge problem today and this problem is already being seen and heard, not only in this assembly, but spreads to Serbia. We are, in effect, pushing this country into an irreversible disaster. I'd say what you're doing today is an extremely big, historic thing and you'll be held accountable for it. I am sorry Mr. Radet Obradovic, for pushing him to somehow damage his political biography by the fact that he will be among the first to testify about a new coalition, which will be a disgrace to this country. Mr. Rade Obradovic has the best biography of all the people who are proposed for the vice presidents of the Assembly. He is a young man, very educated, has had a lot of success in life, but I am afraid that this picture taken today, where Mr. Rade Obradovic sits next to people, against whom I have nothing, who also have his own political biographies, but who are not people with whom Mr. Rade Obradovic is supposed to be in society once, to be questioned; at one point there may be a need for Mr. Rade Obradovic to retouch the photograph he is sitting between Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Assembly, and two people who are proposed for vice presidents today. They're a natural block. The Democratic Party of Serbia, with its electoral programme, with votes received from people we also know well and who did not vote for these values, does not belong to this table and what is offered as a political project of the Serbian Radical Party coalition and the Socialist Party of Serbia. Let's talk about what's the future of this country with you. The future of this country with you is, as we have heard, not in European integration, because it is forbidden by Seselj's will, but in the Euro-Asian integrations that are coming to us. To be honest, I don't know exactly what that means, but you, Mr. President, have mentioned in one of the previous interviews that the opportunity for Serbia to enter Euro-Asian integration has been mentioned. I'd like you to explain, gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party, with which part of Asia we need to integrate. Is that the northern part of Asia, China, Mongolia? With Russia, we have already entered some kind of integration, although the Russians have not entered into different types of economic arrangements honestly with us, in the sense that they have even ratified us in their Free Trade Treaty. But there is one good bridge that we can connect to this southern part of Asia, because in that part of Asia, which is countries like Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, there are wonderful regimes, with the wonderful presidents of the parties of the idyllic parties, which are absolutely in line with the values that you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u718	There's no point in insulting other countries. Don't make a statement about other countries here, so it doesn't turn out that the Assembly has taken a stand on social arrangements in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u719	I am sure that this is an insult to these countries when we talk about democratic capacity, about the behaviour of the government towards the opposition, about NGOs, about other countries. Let me tell you one thing, you read a letter from Cuba yesterday with great pride from Mr. Fidel Castro. You read it, Mrs. Jovanovic, and informed us that the Cuban people with great enthusiasm accept the fact that freedom and democracy finally came to Serbia. Today, I would like to assure you of the reactions of most of the countries with which Serbia must co-operate in the future, such as the European Union countries, which, unfortunately, express their complete disappointment with the fact that the democratic party of Serbia, that Vojislav Kostunica has finally removed the mask from his face and has shown that he is able to support those parties that pushed Serbia into the most severe collapse in its history and that have led us to be the last country in Europe after gross national income, by the level of investment and by what is measured when one thing must be measured, which is the future of our children. The coalition created today in this parliament between the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia, a coalition that is likely to be confirmed in The Hague today, will unfortunately come into the situation that we will be completely isolated as a country. We're going to get off the path of our Eurointegration, and I think we're going to strike a nonrefundable blow to what we're essentially still considered a vital part of our nation's biology, which is young people. At this point, hundreds or thousands of young people are thinking of leaving this country, precisely because of the coalition that's being created here. At this point, hundreds and thousands of people are thinking about moving their children to other countries. At this point, because of the coalition created here, our country, not only on the stock market, but in investment, in the interest of foreign investors for investment, is losing at every turn. At this point, people are losing jobs and potential jobs because of the coalition that's being created here. I'm asking you now: is it worth it? What ideology and values have forced the Democratic Party of Serbia to take such a step? That, of course, was stubborn. They had other things on their mind when they entered into a arrangement like this. I'm sure at this point, the Democratic Party of Serbia realized it was a fraud. I'm sure at this point they're trying to find some way out and stop what's agony, but there's no way out. Unfortunately, agony is getting deeper and deeper, and I'm afraid at this point, there's no way we're going back on some reasonable path. I am sorry that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic will be sitting here shortly behind, because the Serbian Radical Party's MP group will be left without a well-organised group, which has been throwing and defocusing speakers all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u720	Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u721	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, I know you'd like my head to be bigger than it is, but it's not easy to achieve. There is no reason for anyone to insult the MPs and the entire parliamentary groups because, in a transfer sense, this means that it offends exactly the number of citizens and their supporters who gave their vote in the direct and free elections to those parliamentary lists. There is no reason why a national MP, he says, has been preparing for years to be the police minister or chief of Ubba, here to call MPs or a whole group of cavalry. I don't have any problem with that. When I met people well, I loved horses very much, when I met Mr. Shutanovec, I loved the horse most. There is no reason for anyone here to defend Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Mr. Radojko Obradovic, I have defended myself with complete personal, human, political, professional and any other integrity. I can say that he's imploding co-operation with that man in any way, but saying that he's going to get his biography dirty by sitting next to three vice presidents, or one vice president, or two vice presidents of the National Assembly, is the most difficult insult that can't be filed in this House. Please. I want to tell you, Mr. Dulic, otherwise I haven't met almost any Dulic, I apologize to your esteemed family, who is condescending and who addresses the other controversies correctly. It doesn't make sense. The Serbian Radical Party received a million and several thousand votes, the Socialist Party of Serbia won about 250,000, these other 600. 1,000, etc., and you, Mr. Dulic, say someone will dirty the biography because it sits next to the representatives of two million full-time citizens of Serbia. It's not correct, it's not normal, it's an abnormal political attitude. It's not my place to educate you, you're educated, as well as the Shutanovac, in Garmispartenkirchen, Konrad Adenauer, I don't know where else, it's your right and your choice. I absolutely do not argue with it, I just want, first of all, the MP of the SPS, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, to defend against an insult that is unimaginable, which is dishonest. It doesn't make sense. I hope you didn't mean it. I understand that it can be in the heat of a political struggle, or you're in favour, although it doesn't say that in your program -- it's my job to be informed, for a different concept; there's another choice that isn't democracy. There are elitist concepts, write in your political programme that, so let's say -- the Academy of Science elects the president of this institution, those institutions, doctors and professors, peasants have no right to vote, minorities have no right to vote, pensioners have no right to vote, those who have no high professional standing have no right to vote. Well, then do it, but it's not possible. That's not possible, please. As every MP, he was a agricultural producer or academic, exactly the same in all the rights here, so all the MPs are own, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on selecting Members of Parliament, that they behave here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, to represent the citizens and represent their interests. Don't insult people, don't discredit yourself. You are unable to insult Milutin Mrkonjic. Absolutely, you have no capacity to insult the largest builder in this country. That's not what this is about. It's an honor to sit next to Milutin Mrkonjic, Mr. Dulic. Otherwise, all of this can be the subject of various political and other initiatives at press conferences, in the election campaign, etc., but this is Parliament. Please finish this the way you want. It's your right not to have a candidate. I'm just asking if it was an insult to Mr. Milan Markovic to be vice president at the National Assembly in the previous term, when he also sat here as a socialist and when he also sat here as a radical. Was that an insult, Mr. Dulic? How is that possible? Is that what you say when it suits you in a different way? I don't think that's right at the very least. If there's no other argument for what you're trying to say, don't make it an insult. There's no reason. I have to say, I haven't heard anything worse here in six years, there's no such thing. What you said was the worst insult any MP has ever said here. It's not fair, it's not collegiate, it's not in the spirit of what needs to be a single parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u723	Mr. Baralich, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course it was not my intention to insult anyone, I'm not a man of insult. I come from an environment that is, above all, nice and cultural. I'm from Saturday. I come from a middle that's tolerated and I learned that speech. I didn't say anyone would dirty their biography by sitting next to people like Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic and Natasha Jovanovic. So I didn't use the word that someone was going to dirty their biography. Don't lie, that's not true. On the other hand, Mr. Obradovic will be the first person to point out that he is personifying the coalition that is being created, and that coalition, I am sure, will in many ways be able to discredit all those people who participate in it, because that coalition is created against the will of this people. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Rade Obradovic is only the first to participate in something that is a coalition that is created. Of course, now you can talk about being very offended. We can also enter qualifications as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic built this country. We can also get into qualifications as to who is educated and who can be insulted. I will not insult anyone, but I have the right to think that this coalition that is created is discrediting the people who are going to participate in it, because they are going to completely ruin something called the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u724	Let me just, on the basis of Article 85(5), extend this session to the conclusion of the debate on a point that is then on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u725	Mr. President, Mrs. Radeta, Mr. Baralic has taken advantage of, I would say, in an incorrect way, just the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Mr. Oliver Dulic. Mr. Baralic, I think it's clear to you, and that everyone here is clear what Mr. Dulic was talking about, and it's something we can call political compromise. No one here spoke in a valuable sense of Tomislav Nikolic, even less of Natasha Jovanovic. We agreed not to say that when the vice presidents are elected. We're talking politics, and this thing is a lot more serious than these insights we have the opportunity to listen to in the National Assembly. I was not ashamed and did not mind sitting and being vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who, at least formally and in part and essentially, continued to one extent the Democratic Party firmly believes, which is the way of European integration. Today, we are not proposing a candidate for vice president to express our deepest dissatisfaction with the fact that Serbia's fundamental commitment to European integration is questionable. We're worried that on that master's trip, which we were hoping wouldn't change, he's turning. It's much more serious than throwing Mrs. Radeta, which is obviously fascinated today by my suit, as I understand it, I hope it's a suit, but believe me, the whole story is much more serious. So if we had a political change in 2000, if in 2000 we decided, in the elections, that Serbia's place, in a political and valuable sense, in the community of European countries, with all our neighbours, our environment, if we made that decision then, today is an equally important moment, because Mr Tomislav Nikolic's choice tells us that a political majority has been created that wants to annul that decision from 2000 and turn Serbia one other way. We in the Democratic Party are convinced that this is a bad path, and Mr Oliver Dulic has tried to tell you in a nice way. We believe that this is a bad path, we believe that this is what Mr. Nikolic was talking about, about, I don't know, the anti-hegemonist coalition or I don't know what, one big delusion. It is just as much of a delusion as when Mrs Mira Markovic, in 1999, said – let us, we will endure, the relationship of power in the world will change. As long as we're alive here, whoever makes an effort to deal with geostrategic estimates will realize that by the end of the 21st century, no significant geostrategic and geopolitical changes in the world are expected. It's an analysis of Chinese analysts, so state analysts, not CESIDA, you don't know that well, Mr. Migati, who has a billion and three hundred million inhabitants and the growth of a social product that is almost on average about 9.8% in the last five years. If this country so assesses the future relationship of power in the world, if Russia estimates a different relationship of strength in the future, do not let us, as a people with eight million inhabitants and with a bunch of problems, banish cosmic justice and try to redecorate the system that exists at this time in the international community and in the world. We must try to find the best way, to provide this country and our citizens with a better life and thus protect national and national interests, because the top state and national interest is a better life for every man who lives in one community. I would remind you that the gross social product per capita in the EU is about $14,000, in that so-frozen union, and our fellow citizens have been given only $4000 per capita by our political elite. Our people are on average seven to eight times poorer than they are people in the European Union. It is our job to create conditions for citizens in Serbia to live in the same way as citizens in our geographical environment, as do citizens in Europe. You can't run Asian politics in the centre of Europe. Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Oliver Dulic didn't speak here... Mr. Prophetovich, you are a well-known analyst of world opportunities. I admire your amazing analysis, and I'm asking you to come out for a pay phone and explain. I'd like to hear a different analysis from your mouth. That's right, you finally called. So, Mr. Dulic said one thing and I would pray that it is not abused in the way that my exposure was misused yesterday. Mr. Dulic said his assessment of the democratic potential of the system in certain Central Asia countries. I don't see him offending those states, and if anyone thinks he did it, here, I'm ready to apologize. We have no intention of insulting anyone. Mr Dulic simply spoke of the character of the current political opportunities in the so-called so-called ". the Asian Balkans. Gentlemen, this is called the Asian Balkans, because there are a significant number of countries that are quite unstable and currently run all of the world's policies; don't think of a global policy for Serbia. The same way my exposure was abused yesterday, when I tried to draw attention to the President of the Assembly that this is Serbia and that there was no need for some Russian philosophy to stand out in this way, because I do not believe that the love of the President of the Assembly towards Russia is less than my love for Russia is greater. So, I get the impression that there's been a constant manipulation of some of the wrong topics here, and there's very little talk about it... And Mr. Baralic spoke for seven minutes, Mr. Nikolic, I'll be done very soon. ... how do you think you can come up with your idea of a connection, political, strategic, with some countries that, de facto, don't want us to. I think this is a fundamental problem, and you didn't understand Mr. Dulic in one more thing. Mr Dulic did not dispute the fact that the Serbian Radical Party has as many voters as it does, I said once that we are not contesting the fact that Tomislav Nikolic is here the strongest parliamentary party, but we are talking about a policy that nobody knows what it is and is being conducted by the Democratic Party of Serbia. The DSS gentlemen until three months ago said it was quite clear that they were on the European path and would not make any unnatural coalitions, so they received 660,000 votes. Then they came to talk to the DS, who had 50% more votes than they did, and they went in line with blackmail and got the prime minister's place as an offer from us, and then they wanted to take over the second. When we said at one point -- a lot more, there were elections, you didn't get certain mandates to do certain jobs in this country -- then the DSS accused us of treason the other night, of working on foreign orders, and now the real alliance with the SRS. I want to tell you something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u726	I draw attention on time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u727	I'm done. The Serbian Radical Party and we have an opposing policy. I respect you for your consistency, even though your policy is one utopia, a disaster and so on. Show a little more respect for the party, which is also consistent for 17 years. If you already have some disgust, show it to those whose only consistency is to find a coalition partner who will take them into power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u728	He has the word Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u729	They were applauses for the song they're working on. Mr. President, Mr. Markovic, clearly Mr. Dulic said that you were now claiming not to be. I quote what he said: "That the president of the National Assembly has been elected... "I will not talk about a personal solution, but about the president, it is still said: "... Contrary to the will of the citizens. "This refers to the president of the National Assembly who was elected by 142 MPs. Do you, Mr. Dulic, count any other citizens, those who did not go to elections, or citizens of other states, or any factors, any associations, I don't know what this is about? We've been elected under familiar conditions, the Constitution is known to everyone, I hope. Your claim could qualify you as a political ignorant. I would not like to offend you, but I refer you to that fact, because 126 votes, or more, in a portable sense, are the majority of citizens of Serbia, of the age-old, of those who have the right to vote. You may like it or not like it, and it's legitimate, I understand that. It may cause different emotions, different political views, but you can't claim that it's the opposite of the will of the citizens. This is contrary to the political will of several parties who did not have a majority for the issue at the moment, and this is a clean situation. Everything else here is one politics without any meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u730	He has the word Mr. Dejan Mirovic, so Todorovic, so Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u731	Mr. Markovic, I'll only give you two information. During Jelicin, foreign exchange reserves in Russia amounted to $12 billion, and now they're over 300 billion. The second is that Russia's foreign reserves are bigger than Germany, France, America and England combined. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u732	There's a word from MP Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u733	That's right. Russia is a rich and big country, a very important country, and Russia is certainly a friend of Serbia and every political option in this country respects and appreciates Russia as a strong player. Personally, I love Russia and, when I watch a basketball game between Russia and America, I always cheer for Russia. I love Russian music. By the profession I'm orthopedic, and I must say, the Russians have phenomenal methods for bone growing, invented by the famous Dr. Ilizarov. I admire them, they're great at everything, in literature, in art and others. It's true there's a lot of money in Russia. But don't think that the Russians love Serbia more than American dollars and don't make your political concept formulate on the fact that the Russians will help us. Look at history, the Russians never helped any country unless it was in their interest. Come on, get down on the ground! My people, we are in Europe, geographically, politically and in every other way. We are surrounded by the European Union. The European Union is our destiny. We'll enter the European Union sooner or later, it's just a question of whether our children will live in it in five years, in 15 or 50 years. When I talk about the people's will, Mr. Baralic, when I talk about that this coalition that is now created here is not at the will of the people who voted for it, I don't mean the SRS and I don't mean you. You've clearly come out with your political concept, you've had your leaders, you've had your political actions in the past, you've had your programs, you're attached to your values. This is about the Democratic Party of Serbia. If the DSS had come up with a project to join the SRS coalition, it would not have received 660,000 votes, it would have won 100, 200 thousand votes, it would have been on the verge of censorship, and that would have been political reality. So what I'm talking about is this. I'm not accusing you, people, I respect you, you're a political reality, you've survived, as well as the SPS, very difficult moments and today you exist, and it is indeed for every respect. This is about the DSS failing the will of its voters because, as its political concept, it did not offer a coalition with the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u734	The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, then Dusan Prorokovic, and Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we have been able to determine in these last three days is a great regret for unrequited love of DS. Three days here, we've been moaning regrets and calling the DSS to come back. If we can help you, we're really calling on the DSS to take one step, well, I don't know what boundaries you're going to go to, but come on, look, we can't stay alive, three days convince you to go back to some cohabitation you've been in for the past seven years. There has been another unrequited love of the Democratic Party for 15 or 17 years, which is the European Union, the West and so on. transatlantic integration, which should also be explained by someone to say what transatlantic integration is. You've had your chance, gentlemen, to be careful, for almost ten years, until 2000, to convince Serbian citizens that a better future awaits them. Only the regime of Slobodan Milosevic needs to be brought down and prosperity in Serbia will begin at the moment. How did you forget those ads from 2001 -- six billion dollars waiting to start from Hungary to Serbia, but you seem to have forgotten to explain to Serbian citizens that you often went to Segedin on October 5th and that these billions have gone untraceable. Why didn't you show the citizens of Serbia and the benefits of Western Europe since October 5, 2000? Do you think the citizens of Serbia are masochists, that they want them to be worse? They believed you, voted for you. What happened? The citizens of Serbia are much worse. You warn us that all geostrategic research is in support of the fact that there is no change in the relationship in the world for the next 20 years. Take an example of Russia. The time of the Jell-O changed and the time of the Putin came. Here, Mr. Dejan Mirovic, who is an expert on this, has just presented facts related to foreign reserves. You already know in advance that these things won't change. You're saying why didn't the Russians do something with us for us? Well, they did. We have a trade agreement that allows Serbia to export its goods to Russia with only one percentage of customs records. What's going on in Serbia? Serbia has been destroyed since you came to power. How is it that Croatians and Slovenians buy businesses in Serbia, produce and export to Russia? How is it that a number of companies in Western Europe are opening up companies here just to get the goods they're exporting to Russia (will, will, more and more are coming, but not because of you, but because of the opportunities Serbia has, and which it has contributed to, the SRS) to enter here, get the papers and enter Russia as Serbian goods. Everyone on the side sees these interests except you. Go to that Europe, but she won't. Why didn't she take you right away in 2001 and realize what you said and what you promised the citizens of this country? We will stick to our traditional friends, those who did not bomb us, those who did not kill little Milica Rakic, those who do not ask us to give up the works of our territory, but represent Serbia's interests and at the cost of investing in the Security Council, if there is an attempt for the US and Europe to try to kidnap some new resolution of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u736	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Markovic, I had no intention of answering my word, I don't know why you called me, thank you for the compliments you gave me. One of the largest British foreign ministers, DiIsraeli, said politics and diplomacy do not have love but only interests. One of our great literary and slightly political leaders, Dositej Obradovic, said that no nation loves another people but deals with its interests. We need to talk in the Serbian Parliament about what our interests are. The agenda item called - the election of Vice-Presidents of Parliament, as well as the follow-up in which we will discuss the composition of the Assembly committees, are not the right time to do so. The Democratic Party of Serbia showed in a previous session that Serbia sees in Europe, both geographically, politically, and economically, and economically. We have even initiated the adoption of several documents and we will not give up the European path. But, first of all, we need to look through the context of some expensive value and the common rules that the EU represents. Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, must continue the implementation of the Aki communicators, the implementation of a set of values that will regulate certain principles and rules in our legislation. The fact that you view the European Union as a colorful postcard and, when said to be EU, you usually think about the date of Serbia's entry into the EU, unfortunately, is not just up to us, depending on the internal circumstances of such a European Union, which, unfortunately, are not going to either us or the countries in Southeast Europe's order at this time. I repeat, what is up to us is to implement European legislation, to bring our legal and political system in line with the systems of the surrounding states. In this direction not only EU member states, countries that are candidates for membership or have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, go to all Member States of the Council of Europe, including those that will probably never enter the European Union. I don't see anything disputed here. The debate itself speaks of the decision taken these days and which will be made in some days to come, and how it depends on international circumstances and international pressure. Three months ago, right after the election, I spoke to a friend of mine in Brussels. We had the opportunity to exchange views on what was going to happen in Serbia, and I warned him that I was afraid that our Parliament and our political elite in all this would, unfortunately, fail, because we have a huge problem in understanding what we have done on our European path and what Brussels thinks we have done. We think it's very much, they think it's very small. We think it's unrequited love, they think they need to push us a little bit more to do something. There's been a huge misunderstanding, and it's all been causing anxiety. As far as analysis, analysis and everything else is concerned, I have repeated several times, when we talk about international relations, international circumstances, whether Serbia should be tighter about Russia, the EU, etc., we are not talking about some cosmic justice, the satisfaction of cosmic truths or anything else. We are talking about whether Serbia will be an entity or an object in international relations. If we are an object, then everyone is dealing with Serbia, then in Serbia every issue will be internationalised, including the question of the election of the president of each municipality, and then we will have some statements from some international organisations, which will tell us, "This can, this can't". If Serbia wants to be an entity in international relations, then Serbia will have a view on different issues. Of course, we are a small country, we are a poor country, we cannot play some big and crucial role in international relations, but also how can we ask ourselves about things in the region and the situation in our region. Therefore, firstly, we must start to deal with international relations and international policy, not to allow every issue in Parliament to be internationalised. I'd like to ask you to go back to the subject, to choose the vice presidents of the assembly. The opposition has the right to obstruction, it does not dispute anyone, either, each MP has the right to obstruction, but at this point you represent a minority in Parliament, because the votes of some other MPs and some other majority have chosen the President of Parliament, which you do not like, of course. All right, that's your call. I don't have any problem with that, but this has gone too far. I think your goal is not to elect the Vice-President of Parliament until the expiry of that deadline for forming a government and to completely block Parliament's work, which is bad. It is also bad because of some future relations in this parliament, and it is bad because of some future decisions to be made in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u737	The word is Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u738	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prophetic, first I want to tell you something. You say the Democratic Party of Serbia does not give up on the European path. You are still saying that in this House your ruling majority with the Serbian Radical Party should adopt European laws. Your majority cannot pass any European law because the SRS has not voted for any single European law. They have a different philosophy. Mr. Prophetovich, only if these people, who for 17 years have one ideology, are going to sell it. It's the only solution to being a European path. I don't know if Tomislav Nikolic will sell that ideology. If he sells, Tomislav Nikolic must burn books, editions of the Serbian Radical Party [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u739	Please don't throw it away. Let Mr. Markovic speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u740	Mr. Prophetovich, or you are not telling the truth from here -- that your coalition with the SRS will be on the European path, which I think is true, or the Serbian radicals are preparing to give up everything they've been saying for the past 17 years. The Serbian Radical Party has published many books. I believe the DSS will now bring the books of the SRS to its library. One of them is "European Union - Satanic creation". Mr. Prophetovic, here, Mr. Momir Markovic, the prominent SRS official, Natasa and others say the European Union is a satanic creation. Mr. Prophetovich, do you think they want to be a satanic creature? Come out and explain what's not clear. That's the majority of you. You want to hear more? It's for your members who are Christian religions, but Catholic. You know the editions of the SRS: "Vatican - Satan's main nest", "Romanian Curia Most Thirsty of Serbian Blood". Make sure you get, Mr. Prophetic, to be compatible to the end, "Antichrist's Deputy, Criminal Roman Pope Benedict XVI". I think you should let Mr. Shormaz absorb the Pontflex Maximus. You know what that means, I guess. "The Satanic Church, John Paul II." And that's for Shormaz. "Devil's apprentice-Roman Pope John Paul II." So it's for those who vote for the DSS, and Catholics are. Gentlemen, I'm advertising your policy, your editions, don't be nervous. So I really don't have a dispute with you from the SRS. I definitely don't understand you. Let me talk to my colleagues at the DSS. So, Mr. Prophetovic, you now say here, in front of the Serbian public, that the DSS is not giving up the European path. You may temporarily freeze it for one 20 years, so you can stay in power for a little while longer. You do not give up on the European path, and with this parliamentary group will you pass European laws?- I'm sorry. It's so unserious that it doesn't deserve any further comment. You know how we behave in Serbia? You've all seen three tickets to Hollywood. In a small village, during the crisis in the Bay of Pigs, in one town in Serbia, the entire village was divided into Americans and Russians and led by people of world politics. They end up killing each other and burning half the village. It's your current policy in Serbia: who's a bigger Serb and who's a bigger Russian, whether it's the radicals or the rest of us or the DSS. I deeply believe that the closeness of Serbs and Russians is unbreakable. There's a professor named Samuel Hangtiton, who wrote a book called "Sukob civilization." The points in that book are like that and they're like that, someone can agree or not, but they listed something that I believe is true, which is that there are eight or nine civilizations on this planet, civilization as the widest cultural framework. One of these civilizations is our Orthodox-Christian civilization. I believe that. I believe that we and the Russians belong to one civilization and that civilization is different from Western-Christian, different from Chinese civilization, different from Islamic, etc. Do not think that the Democratic Party is not a supporter of Serbia and Russia's close ties. We're just trying not to make a farce out of it. So we just want to see things realistically. As for Russia and the data that the esteemed colleague presented, speaking of Russia, Russia must be the largest country, the richest country with its resources. Russia had a difficult 20th century. He started in 1905, a war with Japan, which ended badly. From 1905 to the end of the 20th century, there is no accident that has not struck our brothers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u741	Mr. Markovic, I still have patience, but tell me, is it okay to talk for seven minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u742	It's okay. Mr. Wolfie had 15 minutes when I was chairing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u743	You're only in Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u744	You don't deserve me here... I'm standing behind this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u745	I deserve a lot of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u746	... Call, I'll get out of the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u747	But you're only in Russia, imagine by the time you get to America.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u748	Well, yeah, well, I have to, when your MP group calms down, and I will. Mr. Nikolic, you know there's only one thing you can do if you want to interrupt me, I won't give up on what I'm up to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u749	I didn't mean anything to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u750	This is a congregation that you and Vojislav Kostunica imagined, and I act according to how you...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u751	But you're well-represented, like a good radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u752	Of course, Mr. Wolfie, let me finish, Mr. Nikolic! I see Mr. Wolfie will replace Mr. Nikolic. But, Mr. Nikolic, he laughed at your colleagues when I called you "Wolf." Russia is a country that is in our heart, Russia is a serious country, rich at this moment in natural wealth, Russia has 143 million inhabitants. Mrs. Natasha asked me to tell her something about Russia. I'll tell her. There are 143 million inhabitants, 13% of the population are Muslims, about 20 million, Russia will soon solve it in a democratic way, 20 million Russians remain outside Russia's borders. Mrs. Natasa, Russia's annual gross social product is close to 800 billion euros, respectable, but relative to other Western countries, very little. Russia's military budget is $30 billion. At this point, the gross social product per capita is about $4.5,000. So these are data relating to Russia, I allow 10% difference up and down, but that's it. So Russia is going towards its success, it can have a growth of social product of 6, 7, 8 percent. Russia has some problems in Asia, fighting for the position of regional leader, along with China, India, Turkey and Iran, and Russia is leading its policy as it thinks best for the citizens of Russia. I think Mr. Putin and the Russian leadership are doing very well. In addition, Russia, fortunately for us, at this point protects our interests in Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore this whole story, out of respect for the Russian Federation, should not be banalized and brought down to the movie "Three Cards for Hollywood". As for this collapse that has occurred since 2000, I think this time since 2000, which is now breaking up, is a good way to go. When we talk about these numbers the fellow radical mentioned, we started with under a billion dollars in foreign exchange reserves. Now we have close to $12 billion in foreign exchange reserves. We started with a gross social product of barely $800 per capita, now we have nearly $4,000 per capita. As state and society, in these seven years we've been making progress, unfortunately, not as fast as we'd like. We have a lot of problems on our European and democratic path, but we can make progress, we can be better, it is only important that in the next elections we invite citizens to support the option of continuing Serbia's European path, so that we too have a standard like our direct neighbours, Croats, who already have a double standard now than Serbian citizens have. We've split up nicely now. We don't share Serbia, we only have different ideas. On the one hand, we who are behind the European path, on the other hand, are you gentlemen radicals, who have a different path and with you are DSS, who have a "road". It doesn't matter, we're gonna go to elections, there's no need to insult each other and throw each other away, I just wanted to point out these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u753	Dusan Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u754	I'm going to be very brief, and I'm going to try not to answer any more replicas, no matter how much you mention my name. I tried, I think, in a decent and correct way, to explain. As you abuse it in some later discussions, I don't care, and I won't look back on it anymore. I repeat, you have the right to obstruction, both as an individual and as a parliamentary group. It is the legitimate right of the opposition to obstruct Parliament's work, to extend certain decisions, but bear in mind that we, our position, will be very much helped by the constitution of Parliament, namely the conclusion of this process. Let us, at least, choose the vice presidents of Parliament and the assembly bodies, which should continue to work. You know what awaits us by the end of May, even if the election is scheduled on Monday. I am glad that, finally, the debate on Serbia's foreign policy has been held. You should have talked about it a lot earlier. From 2000 to today, rare moments like this were rare. I hope that, as soon as next week, when we've completed what's been determined by the Constitutional Law and the Labour Act, which has been established on the agenda and what we have to discuss, we can discuss all these things. I repeat, interpret my words any way you want. I won't answer to you today unless there are some inappropriate insults, which I doubt. I will certainly not hear them from your mouth, I know you and personally, but we have been together for a long time in this House. I am in the mood for controversy always, on all things, about how Serbia should position itself regionally, how Serbia should look at some continental and international processes, political and economic, but let's talk about it next week. Unfortunately, entertained by all of these in Parliament, we were completely undetected by the fact that yesterday in the Security Council, two different resolutions on Kosovo's future were circulating. One was of French origin, one was of Russian origin. I think it's a subject we could talk about tonight. When the Anexiona crisis occurred in BiH, the day after, the political act was discussed by the parliaments of France, Great Britain, I think, Austria, of course, is understood, and the Serbian parliament was discussing some distribution of land in Kremna. Don't let us repeat these situations. I guess this Parliament's history has taught us something. There is something that is a priority for both Parliament and the state, there is something that goes past us, unfortunately, at this point, and if it continues to go past us, what I warned you about will happen. In this country, everything will be internationalized and everything will be an international problem, and we won't be able to influence anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u755	Vladimir Petkovic - quit. Mujo Mukovic - he's not here. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure at 14 hours) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u757	Mr. President, I'm not at my best age, I think the best years are just ahead of me, but about two hours I called in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, by Rule 100, you should have given me your word. I didn't get the word, it's 15 hours and 15 minutes, but I still remember why I called in the Rules of Procedure. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. It is particularly stressed that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I just kept my mouth shut, although I did mention when you insulted me and my mother from this pay phone, but I heard very well what you said to Mrs. Nadia Dulic, the mother of Oliver Dulic, as he spoke, and it was very ugly for the MPs who belonged to the political party who did it. Some mothers have nausea while they're pregnant, some are sick when they see what they've given birth to, but, please don't let this be a temple and a parliament where we respect each other, so let this be an altar, an altar of culture in Serbia, and not a spithole, where people come forward for a word when they have their salival glands. Please at least address the Democratic Party MPs with respect and respect, not to mention family. We don't do this to you, and I insist that Oliver Dulic apologize to that MP who insulted him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u758	If someone really insulted Oliver Dulic's family, please come out and apologize, and if you know who he is, let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u759	I have to admit, I didn't hear an insult... But those who earn have very beautiful replicas, they sometimes know how to stab. [[unheard]] But we in other lines, lastly, can't hear what you're throwing at. Come on, change yourself a little, come to the front lines I said earlier, and it's not a coincidence that Mrs. Jovanovic is going over here, because Mrs. Verica Radeta will be left alone in that, but I'm sure you'll find an adequate replacement. I ask you one thing, don't insult our parents, there's no point, there's no need for that. You will never hear a word that comes from this side, and I am the rank of President of the Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who called on the one who offended my mother to apologize, I find it an apology and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u760	I understand we've exhausted the list of speakers. Do MPs who haven't used time want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would indeed, at the end of this day and yesterday's debate on this item of the agenda, ask all MP groups to think carefully about the consequences and consequences of any vote on candidates for vice presidents. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always voted in favour of all proposals for vice presidents, without asking whether we are, personally, for the candidate who has been proposed. I would ask DS and DSS representatives to go out into the hallway and continue with the negotiations, and I would ask them to listen, because first of all, I am talking to them. I wasn't present when there was a finding here that one of the candidates for the vice president, if elected, would cause certain damage to the biography if he sat next to others. I would remind you that Mr. Milan Markovic was sitting here, as vice president, next to many people; I suppose that didn't do him any harm in his biography. If we want correct and collegiate relations, I urge you to think carefully about how you will vote. If you vote against our proposal for vice president or committee, think about the consequences - will anyone ever vote for your proposal again and do you want us to have something in common here, and these are the lists that we have set together. You know what the difference is? The difference is there's no candidate of yours on this list right now. If he had your candidate on the list, I guess this would take five minutes. So I ask you to consider the consequences, because then none of your proposals for the committee's composition will pass, none of your proposals for vice presidents will pass, etc. I would ask, therefore, that the MPs of the Democratic Party, if they do not know the practice they have been applying these seven years, would ask questions about their leadership and about the heads of the parliamentary clubs, behave the way the Socialist Party of Serbia has acted on all your proposals. So this isn't a theme where we should re-vote, because all parties have made their proposals and it would be correct if no one were against it. Anyway, in the end, I just want to say one sentence. I don't think it's clear to us yet that, apparently, those who say that the Serbs are genocide people are right, the only problem is that we are genocide in such a way that we have destroyed ourselves and that we are destroying ourselves. I don't know if we realize that at this point in Serbia we have much more important and serious issues than our party supersedes. I want, and this time, to call on all parties, to call on both the DS and the DSS, I urge both the SRS and the DSS to take responsibility for what Serbian citizens have chosen them for. You and the citizens of Serbia chose not to go to the elections tomorrow, but to lead this country. If you don't want to take responsibility, why go back to the election, then you'll negotiate again three months later. I am saying this because the day is coming when you will see whether there is responsibility and reason in Serbia or only the interests of political parties. We are, of course, different. Speaking of the European path, I would ask those who speak on behalf of the Democratic Party to at least keep in mind, when they talk about the time from 2000 to 2007, when they have in mind the period 2004 to 2007, to take care and to know that there would be no step in approaching the European Union that the SPS did not vote in favour of the laws on the National Assembly and did not support that European path. So, as far as the SPS is concerned, we are for the European path and we are for the entry into the European Union and, when you talk about the parliamentary majority, take care of what you're talking about. Next, I don't mind being different and attacking each other, but please, the man owns just what he didn't say, don't say anything after which there's no going back to normal democratic flows. Can you imagine tomorrow the government, on Monday, the government of the DS and the DSS, after everything you've said about each other, and you may have to, because politics isn't about talking and not just about what you want and what you can do, it's about something you have to do. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have given you confidence in the elections not to go to the elections again, but to lead this country and take responsibility. Whoever does not, let them no longer deal with politics, let them deal with political, analytical or any other work, but, in any case, the citizens decided in the elections on who will rule on their behalf, and now you are returning that decision to the people, who will decide the same. Therefore, whoever makes the Serbian government is in Serbia's interest is political stability, and it is not in Serbia's interest to waste time on who is going to take off their hooligans or put them on someone's head. It's a job for criminals on the street, not for MPs and politicians. Our job is to lead this country and lead this people, whether we're in power or in opposition. If you've already gone to elections, take responsibility for running the country and when it's the hardest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u763	So I'm using these other 10 minutes. I think everything has already been said, I'm just going to explain how the Democratic Party will behave for the election of vice presidents, so I'm going to say that DS will vote for the election of vice presidents. Mr. Dacic, let me give you an answer to your question. The Democratic Party has made it clear that through the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, through this process and procedure, it wants to express its deepest disagreement with the danger of Serbia retreating from the European integration path, on which we have been standing firm since 2000, which we as a party and as individuals are committed completely. On the other hand, we have not commented, nor do we think we should comment on the election of other parliamentary groups to be represented as vice-presidents by certain MPs. Also, we will not spoil the practice that has been established in Parliament and we will not vote against your candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. We will simply refrain from voting, and we will not vote in favour, not against, nor abstention. We ask you to understand our position, for our attitude is, above all, sincere. It comes from that deepest urge that we are dealing with politics, and we also understand your need for your coalition to continue the establishment of the National Assembly, or the election of vice presidents. I don't think that will interfere with the future atmosphere and work in the National Assembly in any way. Also, I can promise you and I can guarantee you that we as a party will never be, we haven't been this three years, any remethyling factor. We will only try to convince as many citizens as possible, as well as our political partners, that our policy is correct and that Serbia should be managed by the values and ideas we have been handling for 17 years. I don't think there are any dilemmas left, and I just want to apologize if I've done you any harm with my exposure, challenging, possibly your European potential. At this point, I would like to express my satisfaction and joy if your party sees Serbia as a member of the European family of the people, but I ask you to show it by your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u764	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I'm finishing the search. Before we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly, the National Assembly is required to establish the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly. I am voting on the proposal that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has six vice-presidents in this meeting. 133 MPs voted, no one against, no 50 MPs voted, no abstentions, a total of 183 MPs. I find that we have made a decision that the National Assembly has six vice presidents in this assembly. We continue to work and move on to the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, according to Article 17(5). The Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of names and last names, set out a list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to proposals submitted, I am setting out the next list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Natasa Jovanovic, Milutin Mrkonjic and Radojko Obradovic. I remind you that, according to Article 17. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, shall decide whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by the MPs to each candidate individually, by raising their hands or by calling. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by public vote, by raising hands. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It includes 135 MPs, no one, with abstentions, has voted 51 MPs, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote, by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice presidents should take place by public vote, by raising hands, I remind you that the public vote will be raised by hand, according to Article 18(2). The Rules of Procedure shall make a statement to the Members of Parliament for each candidate individually. I also remind you that, according to Article 123. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, the MPs first state who is in favour of the proposal, well, who is against the proposal and ultimately who refrains from voting. I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 104(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. For the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will vote in the order that the candidates for vice-presidents are set on the list of votes. First, I would like to put forward a proposal to elect National Assembly Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Who's up for this proposal? It's 137 MPs, and there's no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the proposal to make Natasa Jovanovic vice president. I am voting to elect MP Milutin Mrkonjic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who's up for this proposal? There are 139 MPs, against and withheld. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the proposal to make Milutin Mrkonjic vice president. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Radojko Obradovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. 137 MPs voted against and there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly with 137 votes, most of the votes of all MPs, has accepted the proposal that the vice-president of the National Assembly be the MP Radojko Obradovic. Congratulations. Since the candidates Natasa Jovanovic, Milutin Mrkonjic and Radojko Obradovic received most of the votes of all the MPs, I find that they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice-presidents of the National Assembly in their election on your behalf and on my behalf and ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The election of the remaining number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly will be carried out later. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Republic of Serbia in accordance with the provisions of Articles 24 and 25. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been presented with a proposal for a list of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Assembly, which is drawn up on the basis of individual proposals for parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, a proportional number of MPs they have. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups of relatively many members of the parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time per parliamentary group is the following: SRS - 1 hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; DS - 1 hour, 16 minutes 48 seconds; DSS-NS - 56 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds; SPS - 19 minutes and 12 seconds; LDP - 13 minutes and 12 seconds; The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds; Vojvodina MPs LSV-SVM - 6 minutes; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, one MP - 5 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of the People. You can get applications at the president's table. I am opening a search on the proposal for a list of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Do any of the MPs want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u765	Let me explain one thing. It is not properly written in the material, it is written that I am a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nove Srpska parliamentary group. So that's not true. We talked to the Proposer, since the Rules of Procedure did not comply with the Constitution, to be someone, so that I could exercise my constitutional right to work on committees. That's where I want to distinguish two things. One thing is for someone to be a functioner, so he needs the support of 20 MPs, 30 MPs or parliamentary groups. However, working on the committee is the exercise of the basic right of MPs to be able to work, and in this sense I have accepted that I work on committees, to be a member of the committee, but not to be proposed as a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, but only to be a proposing, in order to bring the current Rules of Procedure, which is not under the Constitution, and my constitutional rights. In that sense, I thank the Democratic Party of Serbia for having an understanding of the current situation, but I did not get any of its rights, nor did anyone give it up. Even, there is one disagreement in this proposal with the basic, elemental law of the Members. It is looked at in the following: every MP in this assembly has the right to participate equally with the others, that means, in two or three committees. According to this proposal, I am as a member of the Roma Party damaged, because it is proposed that I participate in the work of only one committee and I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I owe Mr. Shine an apology because we agreed at the meetings of the heads of Parliament that we would allow Mr. Shane, who doesn't belong to any parliamentary group, to be a member of the two committees. From my quota, to take advantage of that harsh word, the Democratic Party of Serbia has given up one seat in the Committee on International Relations, and I have left in my parliamentary group the obligation to keep one seat for Mr. Shayna from our quota in the Committee on Poverty Reduction. I now see in the proposal that he was not proposed to the Committee on Poverty Reduction, that there was a mistake. So I'd like to ask you, I know exactly, so now I'm going to suggest that the only change in the list you've got be in the Committee on Poverty Reduction, from SRS No. 2. Gordana Gajic is not a candidate, he is a candidate for Mr. Sain. I don't think there's any reason not to accept it, it's just not being implemented in this proposal and it's gone with these consultations as a guideline. Of course, you are not the People's MP we are proposing, perhaps roughly here, you are, indeed, a member of those committees, and all MPs, especially those whose first term of office, I am informing them that they have the right to participate in the work of all committees. They don't just have the right to vote on committees, they only have the right to vote on those committees they're elected to. Anyone else want a word? (No) I'm finishing the search. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 25(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the proposed list for the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, decides in general, by public vote. I also remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(2) point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs of the National Assembly. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a list of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with an amendment that we have made during the debate. Please vote now. I find that 137 MPs voted against, against is no one, abstention is no one, no 55 MPs voted, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a list of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u767	Article 68. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this assembly say: "The Committee for Economic Reform is considering plans and programmes for economic development" etc. "The Committee has 21 members, of which 12 are representatives of the next committees," and lists all 12 committees. "The other 9 members are elected in a manner prescribed by the provisions of Article 24 of this Rules of Procedure. “ We recently adopted that the 25th Committee, for economic reforms, has 12 members, I can read them if you want, is said to be only nine in the 68th. It's all right, but you said he's 12 now, and he only needs nine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u768	I'd like to ask the president of the DSS Group if you could come and consult with me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP was right. By assembling proposals from parliamentary groups, we have found that 12 members of this committee are proposed to be elected in the manner provided for in Article 24. It's the Rules of Procedure, and it's only nine. So I'm asking you to open your proposals, that's committee number 25. The members of the board belonging to the Serbian Radical Party MP group are Otto Kišmarton, Nemanja Sarovic, Tomislav Ljubenovic, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Zdravko Topalovic. So now Momir Markovic and Tatomir Bakovic are no longer candidates for the board. The members of the DSS-NS board are Milos Radulovic, Slobodan Adzic and Mladen Grujic; Dragan Avramovic is no longer a candidate. Of course, Mr Milan Nikolic remains a candidate. Now we have nine candidates, as long as we have to choose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u769	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it impossible to vote twice because this point, by voting, is exhausted and we have finished the job. Technical errors are not corrected by a subsequent vote, but must be submitted with a new proposal. So, on this point, perhaps, at a new session, according to a new proposal, which MPs will be informed of in good time. If otherwise considered, then you must present the case or proposal of the dispute to the Administrative Committee, which must be decided and proposed by the Assembly a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u770	What a perfectionist you are. I think the National Assembly, when it sees a mistake and corrects it, should be commended. This vote is not valid, we couldn't choose 12 MPs. The vote wasn't made. Now you've got a new proposal at the session itself. Make a statement about this proposal. I am opening a debate on the amended proposal for a Committee on Economic Reform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u771	Since the MPs, after completing this item of the agenda, have rejected these proposals in oral form and no longer have written proposals in front of them, as you are obliged to communicate with the MPs, I would ask you to put this proposal on paper and deliver it to the MPs. This would make the necessary consultations in the parliamentary clubs, in those parties that want to make their proposals. Maybe those who haven't had suggestions so far will get a chance to do it now. I am not talking about the Democratic Party, which will not participate in this, but in any case, you are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, because this shows the first step towards overcoming the rules under which this assembly is acting. If you keep it that way, we'll have a black list.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u772	Mr. Ristic, I was under the legal delusion that the proposal was good. If that was a good excuse for you, it could be worth it to me, too. You have the right to declare that in the day of the vote, at the first next session. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u773	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that this problem needs to be solved. Of course, the problem must be solved in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There have been many important questions that the congregation has dealt with, and there is no excuse, but it is understandable that failure can occur. However, I expect the president of the Assembly, who intervened with suggestions during the session, to explain to us whether, at the same time, the president of the Assembly and the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, since in the previous work of this SRS Parliament was presented through him as the head of Parliament's group and MP Alexander Vukic as deputy head of the parliamentary group. An authorised promoter can intervene and I think it should be done in accordance with Article 93, but we cannot change the proposal of an authorised promoter, which is the SRS, at the initiative of the president of the Assembly. So, I'm just asking you to introduce us to who's head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, by showing us the SRS proposal you're familiar with, since you didn't do it at the beginning of today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u774	Mr Jovanovic, you did not get that act by the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group. Mr. Dragan Todorovic will be president of the SRS parliamentary group in the next period. I'm notifying you now. Accept this notice. You'll also get written notice. I guess what you're hearing from the pay phone is enough proof that it's true. I heard someone wants a word with the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u775	Dear MPs, I am filing my resignation as a member of the Committee on Economic Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u776	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u777	Dear People's MPs, I am resigning as a member of the Committee on Economic Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u778	The word is by MP Tatomir Bakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am resigning as a member of the Committee on Economic Reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u780	There's a word from the MP, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u781	Here, I'm resigning, too. I just hope it's clear, because I don't understand who resigned, which is why he resigned, which is why they resigned. [[Applause]] We didn't get a report from the other members of the Assembly's work bodies. In order to move forward with the vote on the election of members of the Assembly's working bodies, the Administrative Board will have to meet, say who has been elected and who has resigned, and that the Assembly will receive a report on how to discuss new proposals, to make remarks and see if the conditions for continuing work in terms of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure have been met. This Rules of Procedure is a "sacred letter", first of all for the president, and then only for the MPs. I would once again criticise the president, who is constantly advertising behind the MPs' back -- he should be closer to the bell than the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u782	There is a word from MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u783	Your Honor, you tried to chair Parliament, but it obviously doesn't work. Now you've lost your compass completely and I suggest you, in your best interest, that only in writing, because you know what the rules are, you can withdraw the proposals, you can make proposals, but at a new session or after the decision of the Administrative Board. Although you have teamed up with your legalists, it is obvious that something from legalism, to which you have held, has in the meantime melted and disappeared. There's something else I want to say. You comment on every reaction of every MP. I've warned you a few times already. May I have your attention, please? Something worse happened today than that. You, Mr. President, are one of the most responsible functions in this country, headed by the highest legislative and representative body in this country. You represent and represent the Republic of Serbia in a certain way. You have today allowed one MP, a member of your parliamentary group, to establish some new Serbian ethnic borders. The fact that he ignored the Serbian Radical Party programme is already an internal issue. I wouldn't get involved in that. Are the borders on the line, as you have been saying for years, Vidin – Karlovac - Karlobag - Ogulin - Virovitica? We've heard that's not true, but some new boundaries have been mentioned. I heard that Istria, the Serbian Moravice, was only left unexplained whether he meant Serbian Moravice in Gorski Kotar, Slovenia, or in the Czech Republic. It would not be a problem, as it may be a matter of political stance or a party programme. Mr. President of the Assembly, you have to react, for the simple reason not to follow various protest notes from various countries for this kind of speech in the National Assembly, or return to Emperor Dushan's time, he was Emperor of Serbia, Arbanas and Greeks, that would be best.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u784	The word has been made by MP Milan Markovic, but I really cannot believe that you're looking again for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because no one after you has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u785	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously, we've failed that replacement regarding Mr. Shane. I understand your good intentions to handle matters in the National Assembly with one free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure or simply by acclaim, but we really can't agree to that. I invite you to return this to legal channels. I think it's best for you and for all of us. Take that break, as Mr Aligrudic said, call a session of the Administrative Board and settle this in some way as valid. Not because this issue will depend on, I don't know, the fate of the state, but because of the principle, because if you agree to this today, tomorrow you will agree to a 'creative' interpretation of the members of the law, etc. I'm not telling you, maybe someone else sitting there. So we need to establish the principle, and that's what's called the rule of law, in particular -- rule by the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u786	Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u787	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 25. The Rules of Procedure say, it refers to the section on the selection of board members: "The proposed list for the selection of board members is decided in general by public vote. "So it's necessary to get a list. First, consultations are held with the heads of parliament's clubs, they form a list together, they table a list in Parliament, and he votes on the list in general. Therefore, you are required to inform the MPs of what the list should be spoken of. Everything else is a hunt in the fog, a hunt in the blurry. I hope this lesson from democracy and respect for the Rules of Procedure will teach all those sitting at this table.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u788	I'll never avoid lessons, anyone to direct them to me. We didn't set up a Committee on Economic Reform today. It shall be established at a session of the Committee, attended by members elected to other committees. We just sent more MPs to that session today than we should have. It could have gone all 12 MPs there and said on the spot - we're resigning and we don't want to join a committee that's now being established. The member of the Rules of Procedure you have read to me concerns all committees other than this, the Committee on Economic Reform. It is not being established today, it is being established at the first session, attended by members of other committees elected to the committee. Okay, someone else out there is looking for a word about a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u789	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, during this whole day's debate and yesterday, we were more confused by the question of what's on the agenda than we discussed what's on the agenda. Please do next. The assembly voted on the composition of all committees, and the act. A mistake was observed, which is completely understandable, and in one correct way it was tried to correct it. However, so that we don't get into a situation where we give lectures and sermons about that it's something cool, that it's something that I don't want to participate in if that's the case, please respect the procedure until the end. The decision was made, an error was detected and the error should be corrected in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the National Assembly has corrected its mistake. Does anyone want us to vote on whether the Rules of Procedure are injured? He doesn't want to. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda: – NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You will get the word when I finish my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u791	I signed up for the previous act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u792	The previous one's over. Don't go near the pay phone, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u793	Proposals are being voted on in the voting day, which must be announced previously, in order to give all MPs the opportunity to secure their presence and vote for, against, or take advantage of the right to be abstained. In this way, it is not possible to lead the Assembly, because this introduces the practice of voting when you want to and excludes the possibility that each of the MPs will speak their views on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u794	Mr. Ristic, this is the only session to be voted upon as soon as the proposal is made and discussed. This is a session without a day to vote. You have received a proposal from the National Assembly to appoint Marko Danilovic as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 37 seconds, 12 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 seconds, 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds; the G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds; the SPS parliamentary group - 19 minutes, 12 seconds; the Liberal Democratic Party Group - 13 minutes, 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of Minors - the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbs - a coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - seven minutes, 12 seconds; the Vojvodjan Group - LSV, SVM - six minutes and MPs - one nation of five-five-minute MPs. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. You can get applications at the president's table. Mr. Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure, I suppose.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u795	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with your explanation. I'd like you to give me another explanation. Why at the beginning of this constitutive session is not voted on all objections to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, in the procedure when you are elected president. That's when I expressed at least a dozen doubts about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't get a chance to vote on it, nor did I get an explanation why it wasn't scheduled. I want to ask you, is this the same session? Then we got an explanation that it was the chairman, who couldn't provide explanations. Now we have, as you say, a legally elected president, so please explain to me this difference in behavior at the beginning, the middle and at the end of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u796	Today, I have not avoided voting on any of the points required by the vote, and I cannot answer for the chairman, as he led the constitutional session and had at all the right to put anything to the vote. For some moral reasons, if I can explain it to you, I've put a motion to be expelled from the session. Even I didn't have to, it was a proposal from that part of the session, but it was about me, so I wanted to see if there was still a majority who chose me, so I can't answer what was going on at a session where there was no vote. I am opening an investigation into the proposal to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (They don't want) Does one of the MPs, until they've arrived yet, want a word? (No) I'm finishing the search. Before we approach the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 119(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider the decision to be made if it was voted by more than half of the identified MPs. Here you go. I haven't seen you, I've asked you many times, it looks like you remembered later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u797	Regardless of my belief that this House will last another day or two, I would like to express my opposition to the proposal of the National Assembly's secretary. Why? Let us remember that this is the person responsible for many events in the previous parliament. Aligrudic told Zoran Shami, "Shamed of him," that he knew the public. Mr. President, here's what the assembly you're chairing looks like. To the fair. So, the proposed candidate, along with the former president of the National Assembly, is responsible for the events related to the handover of counterfeited blanks from individual MPs, and this has served to withdraw the mandate of one number of MPs of the G17 and one MP of the DSS, all of which allowed the existing parliamentary majority to survive and thus continues to function today, both technical, nuance and phantom government. So it's about a man who's responsible, not only for political and moral, but also for criminal responsibility. The second part of his responsibility refers to something that the public has been dealing with for months, and that the public is impoverished, poor, miserable, on the edge of existence. Thirty per cent of people in Serbia are at the poverty line. I was already talking about those who died of hunger. So, the enormous amounts on behalf of counterfeited travel orders have been paid out of the budget to those MPs who had no honor in Serbia, who is on the verge of hunger, to take hundreds of thousands of dinars or euros, are rich because in one day, they cross 1,000 and a few kilometers to arrive at tomorrow's session of Parliament. That's the candidate you're proposing to be the Secretary of Parliament again today. Go ahead, you won't get far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u798	I don't think it was correct to interfere with a court investigation and a court case that's been conducted about it. No one's fault has been found yet, in the first case you listed. Mixing politics into selecting the Secretary General of the National Assembly is really not right. I accept that here you can say whatever you want to an MP who can defend himself, but you're talking about a man I have no right to give my word to. So rudely accuse him of something that hasn't been proven and convicted, I don't think it's really right, but think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u799	It's important, because of this comment by Mr. Batic, to whom what anyone threw. I was kidding, I threw it to you, Batic, and it was a shame for you to bring out a series of information that wasn't true. Of course, you have manipulated something that is a matter of judicial procedure, for cases that have not been completed or begun.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u800	On what basis are you answering for a word, Mr. Batic? It can't be a replica, it can only be done by the Rules of Procedure. You're the one who caused the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u801	A member - an offensive expression by Mr Aligrudic about another MP. The president of the assembly insisted that we do not quote members, so I followed that logic. Of course I can't be ashamed of anything Mr. Aligrudic says. I don't think any MP can be ashamed to listen to what he's doing, what he's doing. Compared to my position, Mr. President, you still need to comment on it. You can't comment on that. Answer the word. You're not the power of attorney for the Secretary of the National Assembly, and this isn't a lawsuit. You can go out for a pay phone and then make your point about it. Therefore, if it is not a moral question for you to falsify charges, namely handing over blank resignations, and we know that it was a falsification, if it is not a moral question for you, and a political question, because the candidate for the secretary of a political party, so if it is not a moral question for you that some MPs were stealing money from the budget at the expense of taxpayers, poor citizens of Serbia, and that was the one who had to worry about it, and that was the Secretary of the Assembly, and allowed these counterfeits to be realised, then I don't know what had to do with it. On that second question, I didn't say what the verdict should be, whether there would be a verdict and whether there would be a trial, I just said that I thought there was a criminal responsibility. On the other hand, I personally filed a criminal complaint against both the secretary's candidate and the previous president of this parliament. Please take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-09-0.u802	Am I supposed to take this as a threat? I am voting on a proposal to appoint Marko Danilovic as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the vote and declare: 138 MPs voted against, no one with abstentions voted 40 out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Mark Danilovic secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me congratulate Mark Danilovic on his appointment as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and invite him to take his place. Before we take a break in this session, I'd like to inform you of the board's session schedule. Given that we have received a decision on the composition of the committee, I call on the members of the following committees to attend the constitutional sessions of these committees, and this: Administrative Committee in the Blue Salon, immediately, Legislative Committee - in the press room, immediately, the Committee on Finance - in the press room, the Committee on Defence and Security - in the fifth floor, in 15 minutes, the Privatisation Committee - in the press room, the Committee on Justice and Administration - in the Hall on the fifth floor, the Committee on Transport and Communications - in the Hall on the third floor, in 30 minutes, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija - in the Hall on the second floor, the Committee on Health and Family - in the Hall on the Third Floor, in a third floor, in a third floor, in a third floor, in a third floor, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, in the second floor, the second floor, the Committee on the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, and the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, and the second floor, the second floor, and the second floor, the second floor, the second floor, and the second floor. I'm interrupting the first constitutional session. You will be informed of the follow-up. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the meeting is attended by 212 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 226 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that MP Nenad Prokic has been prevented from attending the session. You have received the resignations of Vido Petrovic and Drago Damnjanovic as MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of its mandate to these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the elections ended, for MPs Vido Petrovic and Drago Damnjanovic, elected from the election list G17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkic, on the day of the resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. We move on to the motion to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure during the session, in accordance with Article 162(3). Rules of Procedure. A group of 128 MPs from the Democratic Party Group, the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica and the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, on the basis of Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he suggested that, following an urgent procedure, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's agenda be put on the agenda of this session - a proposal to dismiss the duties of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Tomislav Nikolic, and that this point be considered before the 7th item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 146, against six abstentions, there were no 84 votes, out of a total of 236 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal with the majority of the votes present. I give my word to Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
