ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14566	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Chairman, Members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, the notice of the MPs. I'd like to ask the police minister what actually happened last night in the Danube village of Sonta, where he was killed, now the deceased, Vidakovic. I don't want to comment on what happened, I just want it to come out as soon as possible during the day with information about what happened in Sonta last night.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14567	Your parliamentary question will be forwarded to the minister of police. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. One year, with the accompanying documents (the follow-up in particular) on Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, pursuant to Article 145 and Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. The bill on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing that the amount of '2.700,000' be replaced by '1.500,000' in Article 20. Since the Law on Public Procurement entered into force, the budget has increased the amount of small purchases each year, so that the current value of small purchases ranges from 250,000 to 2.7 million, which is with VAT at 3.170,000 dinars. The position of the SRS is to reduce this amount to 1.5 million, as a precautionary measure, in order to avoid possible abuses in public procurement of small value. Due to the possibility of setting up jobs in local self-governments and public enterprises, it is known that public small procurement is made with an open offer, by fax, telephone or letter, so that this way you get offers and all offers of business partners on the table. So, you have the opportunity to set up your business partner, with whom you're in "the dealership," with an agreed commission. You're signaling to him that you're making the lowest offer, and in this way you're doing a job and you're taking an agreed commission, which is abuse of function and position, of course, and a criminal act. We just want to make this amendment to Article 20. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 is reduced or, in some ways, prevent possible abuses. We know from practice that this was happening, especially where you from the DS are in power. You are bound by various affairs and abuses, which make you known to our public and our citizens. Serbian citizens can't wait for January 20th to go to elections and vote with their heart for Tomislav Nikolic to get Serbia the right man for president, to get rid of corruption, crime and theft, to get rid of Boris. When Russia got rid of Boris, Russia came to light, and now it's among the world's leading forces. That is why I call on the citizens of Serbia, vote with your heart for Tomislav Nikolic, so that Serbia will dawn on us all, that Serbia may stand up and stand on its feet, that pride and dignity may be restored to it. The only man who can do this is Mr Tomislav Nikolic and therefore - with a heart for Tom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14569	The word has been made by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14570	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, the law on the budget, as a one-year law that determines the value of small procurement, regulates in a small part the process of preventing the abuse of public funds for private purposes, by defining the value of small procurement. However, this very important job for the state and citizens is currently in a very interesting phase, in which the Government in the memorandum is one position, and through the Ministry of Finance, bringing us a document when submitting the draft budget law, where it is predicted that the Commission for the Protection of the Right of Offerers, as someone who will control the regularity of the procedure, is transferred, in a kind of way, to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. So, to be a body, I believe that colleagues have had the opportunity to see it in their documents submitted to us in the memorandum, which, as an independent, will be separated from the executive authority and without that act of independence, like the National Bank and so on, be able to control these actions. On the other hand, we have a public story, as well as the position of the Legislative Committee, that the Public Procurement Administration, as such, be abolished and that its competences be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. On many occasions, I explained why the Ministry of Finance wanted to do it. So, citizens, businesses, when privatizing, when solving a number of agencies' affairs, can meet bureaucratic procedures, with various "supervisory" and "underground" blackmails, and that doesn't bother anyone. This can be challenged for years by Serbian radicals, by calling out, by making arguments, by practice. But at the moment the government found itself in front of a wall of legal bans and powers in implementing some of its public procurements, it immediately made a decision to ask itself and to prescribe its own rules. Why does the government need that? I took the opportunity to make a very indicative example of this amendment. It's about public procurement going on in the area of defense. So, Mr. Sutanovac's ministry is conducting a process of obtaining certain funds, which, for understandable reasons, will not be listed here, but the way in which the specificity of work is misused and the law itself, as it is directly violated, is the right opportunity for me to bring it out here, and for this amendment. So, the public procurement, by law, is completely misused, by not allowing people who have applied for the insight into the documentation. The basic intensity of this law was to allow as much competitiveness as possible, so that everyone could approach and offer under the most favourable conditions, so that the state could save money. How do you do that? As counterpart Daja just said in his amendment and as the Commission, signed here by certain Mr Slobodan Markovic, responded to the firm that applied and offered equipment for the military. It says – deliver all offers, but the opening offers are made in a closed circle, without the presence of the bidder. Let's just say it's possible, even though no one's asking to see what are the secret elements that the people can't know. If the condition for public procurement, for choice, is the lowest price, who is smart and honest, on behalf of the state, can ask that bidders do not attend the opening of tenders? It is precisely a request in this procurement, in which a firm called "Patrimos" is seeking protection from the SRS, in terms of insight into documentation, that is, the conditions, why a firm that does not deal with this business, which was difficult to get on the Internet, and in questioning people in the branch doing that job. The job has been given to a certain GIM company from Belgrade, which is not at all involved in the production of this equipment, which does not deal with the service of this equipment as the first job. The reason for the choice is the lowest price, and who knows the price wasn't mounted when no one attended the opening. I don't want to talk about values, I don't want to talk about getting what's subject, I just want to talk about what's obvious. Who knows the price offered by that company that doesn't deal with it, which has no reference to doing so, and not the one who honestly publicly asks for protection from the one who's the only one willing to provide that protection? Do you really expect the budget law and the Public Procurement Act to give you the right to spend people's money, embarrassing the people? On behalf of which does the Department of Defense not allow what the Law requires, an insight into the documentation? I will not burden you with the members of the Law, anyone who knows the Public Procurement Act well knows that it is necessary to provide an insight into the documentation. What's going on? It is planned that the Commission for the Protection of Rights, which should decide in one such procedure and which you are not satisfied, be formed by the National Assembly, in the same way as the State Auditing Institution, with two years of waiting, with the excuse that the Constitution requires it to be formed, and then cut the financial plan in half, so that it could not do a revision of the first final account for 2007. The law on public procurement, which the budget law treats in terms of the level of small procurement, is here just another element and a reason to point out that you do not own the funds, that you do not allow control and that the laws exist for you only to violate them and not comply with them. This isn't too much of a word. I'm not asking you to take my word for it. These are documents and evidence. The laws only serve to force citizens, by the classic mechanism of forcing the state apparatus, to pay taxes, and as they are spent, this is just one of the ways I wanted to warn the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14571	I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word is given by MP General Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14572	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a few days ago, I was talking about our country's relationship to The Hague, so I mentioned a general. If you read yesterday's "Blic", you could also read the general's denials, which said he had enough time to prepare. I'm aware of the pressures on him in time and I'm absolutely not angry with him, but I'd like to warn you of another incident at the Department of Defense. In fact, a request came to the Serbian Army's General Staff yesterday. 6329-2 of 18 December 2007, requiring the operation of the General Staff to agree to the entry of foreign military representatives into facilities for special purposes. Gentlemen, one of the defence ministers you all know, Davinic, whom everyone is disowning today, is the first man in this country to allow a number of our journalists to enter one of these facilities in half a century. These facilities, when they were built, cost about 2.5 billion dollars. Here's the minister here, we're discussing today's military budget, and that budget is considerably less than that figure. Gentlemen, you are the people's representatives, try to enter the facilities for special purposes. It will take procedure to allow you at least a month. All countries have these facilities of special purpose. Today it is decided by Bojan Dimitrijevic, whom I remember when he was an adviser when Tadic was defence minister, which is being decided by General Kolundzija and Chief of Staff General Ponos. I went out for this pay phone just to try to influence you, and this will certainly be heard by those at the General Staff and the Ministry, to call themselves to their senses and not to do what they intended. I'm free to be denied in the papers tomorrow and let them say they didn't think to do it with special purpose facilities. It's only important not to allow those objects to be entered by those who intended to. If you gentlemen can't get into them, neither can I, at times even at the time of the SFRY, could the Chief of Staff without a special decision by Joseph Broz, not allow foreign representatives to enter. Because if you wanted to come in, you'd be doing a VSB and BIA check. Two consents should be given before you are allowed into that facility, and you would be led by special guides, which would show only what they think you can see. Who's gonna check in and who can check out these strangers? Everyone here in different military delegations is primarily intelligence, and here they are, primarily, to collect data. I ask you, however, to influence your ministers, your representatives, that this does not happen, because, if it happens, there is one decision that has the mark of the state secret, which may one day come into effect on Davinic, and on the issue of the Sutanovac, and on the Kolundzija, and on all those who have decided to break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14573	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14574	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let it be about the amendment and a very brief comment. We passed the Law on the President of the Republic a few days ago. I remind you that the President of the Republic is practically the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army and the first man of defence in Serbia. What the Honorable gentleman, General Delic, has done here, the MP I congratulate him on, is that he singles out a document that came to the Ministry of Defense two days ago, and he didn't get it by the procedure that he planned, but by the procedure he knew, I congratulate him on that, too. I want to tell you that the level of counterintelligence in that ministry doesn't exist, that it's a hollow. The fact that the MP received this information is not bad, but it can be obtained by anyone else who is interested in anything, and has no good intentions as General Delic. That's the first one. Second, special purpose facilities, among other things, serve to protect the commander-in-chief in conditions, which are possible in countries, such as war, bombing and so on. I spoke here, when it was on the agenda of the Law on the President of the Republic, that when the life of the commander-in-chief was at stake, the battle of a country was at risk up to 50%. The special purpose facilities serve, among other things, for the Supreme Command, the commander-in-chief to safely focus on the problem that has hit his country and to organise defences. With that in mind, I fully support everything General Delic said. So, it's not normal and it's not possible that anyone who wants to show it is showing objects that have, as they say, a very special purpose and that cost one quarter of the current budget of the Republic of Serbia, if someone understands what we're talking about here. I would ask that this topic be found at a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, as well as a law on the classification of classified information in Serbia, since we no longer know what this is about, what is a secret and what is not and what secrets they serve. They don't serve secrets that someone is training strictness, but that counterintelligence and otherwise protects the data of a person, the security of this country from intelligence services of other states, which, as we can see, every day are doing what they want in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14575	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you had a debate, in principle and in particular, on the Security Service's Fundamentals Act, I said that foreign intelligence services here no longer need to have their agents and spies, and you laughed at it. The reason I said this is because they have no need, for whatever they ask of you, you give them and show them. Now another example of how it's done. I don't know if you think it's as funny as it was back then, 'cause, apparently, you didn't believe in something like that enough. I'm very interested in whether the Minister and Chief of Staff will meet what the citizens are asking of them, when they voted for you, to make such a coalition as it is and be in power. As for Article 22, which I have submitted to the amendment, it is a bit of a strange member of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'll read that Article 22 concerning my amendment. ''Political parties which in 2007 and earlier years spent funds defined by the budget law in excess of the political party financing law, and failed to return to the budget, are obliged to return those funds to the Republic's 2008 budget, i.e. these funds are included in their implementation of the 2008 budget. 'Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not just about parliamentary groups, it's about political parties that have MPs, that is. you in the National Assembly. I think you should read this article more carefully 22 before you decide to press the button and reject this amendment. Article 22 The government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Minister, in a rude and rude manner, has accused the political parties of spending more money than they have under the law because of negligence in the government itself and the Treasury. The political party should not have, and especially those in the opposition, an impact on budget implementation and cannot spend more money than the finance minister and the Treasury Administration pass on to them. They only spend what they get from the budget. So the political party can't spend more on the budget than it gets from the budget. Who decides that? The Ministry of Finance and the Treasury Administration. Whose fault is it here now? The promoter, reportedly, who did not take into account some items that could affect the amount of funds a political party needs to receive. I am now asking a second question because the methodology for showing the budget hides from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what the real budget really is and that is the reason for the submission of this amendment. I call on the minister to say what the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is 639,600,000,is 654,429,000,000? Do they enter the budget of the borrowing and sale of financial assets – 89,000,000 dinars, the payment of capital and the purchase of financial assets – 74,470,000,000 and whether, Mr. Minister, they enter the budget of public income, which, by law, you place in your own income and spend as public? The methodology for showing the budget is false and Serbian citizens should know that, according to the 2008 budget projection, the government of the Republic of Serbia will spend not six, seven, eight, but ten billion euros, because the combinations they prescribe by the Budget System Act have allowed themselves the luxury of not telling citizens how much their money will be spent. That's the problem. Budget, whatever you want to call it, to show it, is how much the state earns on all grounds and how much it spends on all grounds. You classify it however you like, but go out and tell the speaker – the budget of the Republic of Serbia is greater than 10 billion euros, not six or seven, as you show here. When it comes to political parties, I ask the Minister of Finance, as he will take care of the application of Article 22. Mr. Minister, on the basis of which criteria will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, determine whether more funds are paid to political parties, because you cannot consider only one part of the expenditure as a budget and one part of the revenues as a budget? That's the first one. Secondly, I'm interested, Mr. Minister, if you find that the political parties have received more funds, I don't mind if they return it, how are you going to do it with political parties that are no longer parliamentary? In my amendment, I asked that the Assembly Working Body, which controls reports on the regular work of political parties, determine whether more funds have been paid, and how much more importantly, is that, in the event that the political party is no longer financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and does not act in accordance with the provisions of Article 1, Ministry of Finance, therefore you, Mr. Minister, are required to initiate a judicial procedure for the payment of funds, no later than 15 days from the date provided for this member to recover more funds. So, Mr. Minister, you have an obligation to do something, not just make mistakes, but to remove them. I am particularly asking the question because of the Serbian Renewal Movement, not because I have something against them, but because they have done so much damage to the citizens of Serbia, so it would be too much not to return funds to a budget that they do not belong to. First, the unfortunate junkie, as foreign minister, signed this agreement, that NATO is passing through whenever it pleases us, which is certainly a shame, they can even use our military facilities without the consent of the state and state authorities. Now he's gone, he's writing some books. If I didn't talk about what happened in our diplomacy, how many diplomatic, consular, residence facilities in the world have been lost because, simply, a man gave to Croats and Slovenes wherever he arrived, I guess so they wouldn't write him court applications in The Hague. Well, then he shouldn't even be doing that job unless he's willing to take responsibility for everything he does as a politician. That seems to be his problem. So this amendment, Mr. Minister, should have been accepted, to finally clarify once what the budget is, what the budget's revenue is, what the budget's expenditure is. Manage the Budgetary System Act, you can adhere to it when it is only an internal relationship between budget performers and budget users, but go to the citizens of Serbia and clearly state how much the Republic of Serbia, or the Government, will spend their money on various grounds. It's called transparency or, as we in the SRS prefer to say, clearly and clearly, because we don't like foreign words. I see that in the new law on budgetary law you have 'approcations', you have refused even an amendment that, in nice, Serbian words, says it's budgetary giving. Here, while he was a minister, even now, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, is not there, but he should be, so I don't have the will to talk about him, constantly some foreign expressions, foreign words use. I guess he thinks we're gonna be scared of his intelligence and knowledge attack, so we don't know how to answer him, and we don't know how to use those expressions. We know, but we cultivate what's domestic, we cultivate our culture, we cultivate our tradition. Serbia also has its own tradition as a state, and as a serious state it has its own tradition when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia. Because, just to remind you, the Serbian budget, then the kingdom, was adopted even when the government of that same kingdom, 1916, 1917, 1918, was in exile and cannot be adopted properly. You're really funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14577	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, on several occasions, my colleagues and I, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, are going out, Mr Minister, to point out some anomalies in writing this draft law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. We've tried on several occasions, Mr. Minister, especially me, to show you that in section 14, you've been referring to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, you've made a few fatal mistakes. Very specifically, it was made by Mr. Milosavljevic himself, and it is a story of short-term and long-term loans and grants. Namely, since Serbia was hit by drought this year, Minister Milosavljevic said on several occasions in public service and other local TV shows that short-term loans will be reprogrammed. Those who took them in 2007, will not have to return in 2008, but will be prolonged for 2009, due to this drought that hit Serbia. However, if we are talking about the budget, which is in the deficit of 14.8 billion dinars, I am very interested, Mr. Minister, here, I insist that you answer me from the pay phone, how will the Minister of Agriculture fulfill his promise, and your colleague from the DS, who has given farmers and other agricultural producers, peasants, paors, that these short-term loans will be extended in a year, and we know that even this budget that you've given for the division of 14, most likely, will not be used as a whole, because such as it is will not meet all the needs promised by the minister, which, otherwise, should be fulfilled, since you're always giving such commendable statements, especially in front of elections, promises that you'll never meet?- I'm sorry. With this amendment, I wanted to point out one more time, Mr. Minister, and I have pointed out in the previous days, to ask you to explain some more things to me about how these short-term loans were made. Mr. Minister, do you know that approximately 35% of the surface has not yet been modeled, those that have been sown with corn and sugar tail? Do you, Mr. Minister, know that somewhere around 50% of the area is not sown with wheat? Do you, Mr. Minister, think you should take care of the fact that in 2008, you'll probably be importing wheat? Do you, Mr. Minister, know that an individual wheat producer has received, after harvesting, 11 dinars, and now one of those powerful men who have the right to export, despite the fact that you've passed some laws prohibiting the export of wheat, sunflower, corn, on the wheat market, gets 21 dinars? Who's the one who hasn't eaten onion or smelled onion now gets ten dinars, literally, 100 percent more per kilogram of wheat than the farmer's? Mr. Minister, your DS colleague, Minister Milosavljevic, has promised premiums for producers of raw tobacco. Here, they call me from Serbia, from Vojvodina, producers of raw tobacco, complete documentation has been submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and to those who need it, and so far they have no answer to obtaining these premiums. Mr. Minister, I know that you, as far as agriculture is concerned, or the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, have not been familiar with much, but do you know that, literally, no law in the Ministry since the government was formed this year, has been prepared, except for those amendments and additions to the tobacco law? Do you know that a farmer should start sowing in about a few months, although the optimal deadline for wheat sowing has passed, by risking their yield to be halved in 2008? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the Minister of Agriculture should come out with several laws? Do you know that there should be amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives? Do you know, Minister, that there should be changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act? Do you think, as finance minister, it would be an excellent incentive measure if you would abolish VAT taxes when it comes to importing agricultural machinery, especially tractors up to 100 horsepower? I think that would be an incentive measure, because the age of the machinery used by agricultural producers is between 20 and 25 years. You would have done a lot of good by helping individual farmers, but you, Mr. Minister, have shown no understanding of agriculture, of individual agricultural producers. Don't you think, in addition to releasing VAT on tractor imports, tax and importing a irrigation system should be released? Isn't it enough to say that Vojvodina, not to say, is the last in Europe to use the irrigation system, and, thank God, we have both rivers and canals. Mr. Minister, once again, I ask you to do well to come out and explain to individual agricultural producers how it will be the Minister of Agriculture to reprogramme short-term loans due in the spring of 2008, based on the drought that has hit individual agricultural producers this year. That would be one of the remarks I've given you. I see you're so busy talking to your counselor that you're simply not interested in what the MPs of the SRS are saying about the anomalies of your draft budget bill for 2008. That's another indicator, Mr. Minister, how much you think about Serbia, how much you think about agriculture, how much you think, in general, about this draft budget you've submitted. It is another indicator of how much you are interested in Serbia, how interested the government is and how interested Boris Tadic is. Let me repeat, explain what that idea of yours means, with which you're going on a pre-election campaign, with those plastic potted pots in which the seed is basil, without land. What does that basil without land mean? It is as if in a country that was once a model in Europe as a producer of seeds of various cultures, you are now sending a message to your saxies to voters – here's a potty, but you don't need a country. From this pay phone, I am ordering, gentlemen of the honourable Serbian MPs and citizens, for St. John, my cross-faith, we will celebrate together the victory of myself, my family, my friends, my relatives and, of course, the whole of Serbia, and the victory is – for the president of Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14579	Thank you, Mr. Christin. The word is held by Parliament Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Cvetkovic, you were elected as Minister on 15 May and I assume it was your obligation to see, to face what you inherited in the Ministry of Finance and what your predecessors missed to do. I reported on Mr. Krstin's amendment due to a major problem, which is the conclusion of the Agriculture Committee, which was chaired by Professor Zoran Masic in 2005. On July 9, 2005, Kragujevac and the surrounding area, the Kragujevac village was hit by a serious elemental disaster. The direct damage to agricultural crops, estimated by the main city agronomist, Mrs Snezana Katic, and the town of Kragujevac's Resorship Committee on Agriculture, with the letter of Mayor Kragujevac Veroljub Stevanović, was forwarded to the Agriculture Committee when we considered the damage to the entire Vojvodina and Jablani County. That year, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided that, on the basis of a report delivered to the government by units of local self-government, adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Security, or the means of damage to our farmers. The estimated damage, you have this document in the government, and by the city of Kragujevac, and by the competent service, you have a report from the Committee on Agriculture, amounting to 156 million dinars. In 2006, the city of Kragujevac was paid only from the Ministry of Capital Investments, for that purpose, eight million dinars. I ask the question what about the other amount, Mr. Minister, and when will that money come to the Kragujevac city budget? Although there are representatives of the parties who have been in power here, they have not asked the question, and I, here, have been adopting and rebalancing for years and planning a budget for the town of Kragujevac, I stand up for it because it is the third year that the money is not coming. Although Serbian radicals there are a fierce opposition to the current government, they appreciate my position and advocacy. Professor Masic is well aware of this report, according to households, and these people rightly expect the state to make it up to them, because it is your obligation. Here's the perfect opportunity. What Mr. Krstin suggested is, precisely, for that purpose and if you accept his amendment, and I see that you have no will, no desire, and so you decided on the Committee, you can solve all these problems, for the other debts of that period. There must be an analysis of what happened this summer. Kragujevac, like many other Serbian cities, is aware that this year the same thing happened, was struck by another elemental disaster. Again, the same households, which did not recover, suffered, suffered facilities and infrastructures in the city. Something's been taken care of, there's a lot more to be done. I'm asking you, do you even know that the recovery isn't over for that period of 2005? So, later on, it doesn't confuse you, because these two separate reports arrived for Kragujevac, because before that, the Committee only considered the districts of Vojvodina, Jablanski and Nisavski County, and I'm interested in realising this job, were the funds defined and are you familiar with it? I will insist to the end, it is also required by the competent services and current authorities in the city, that the government of the Republic of Serbia should pay that money into the budget of the town of Kragujevac, because the city is over-indebted. The funds available to the Kragujevac city budget are not enough for projects and subsidies in agriculture, and these people, here, have been waiting for more than two years for the state to pay for that damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14581	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Zoran Mašić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be incompatible with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a professor, Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14582	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am aware that my explanation of this amendment will essentially change nothing in the definition of either the Minister or the Government, in terms of its acceptance, and, in the end, the amendment to this amendment would mean that some other amendments that we, the MPs of the SRS, have previously been accepted in terms of amending this budget projection, above all, parts relating to the agrarian budget have been accepted. It is simply amazing to me that this government, first of all, the finance minister had no ear for the overall state of agricultural production in our country, for the sincere and good wishes of the SRS MPs, and for the MPs of some other parliamentary groups who proposed concrete changes, i.e. the increase of funds in the distribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, the funds most directly used, above all, for the subsidisation and lending of agricultural production, given the overall problems that the production had, in particular because of the drought it suffered this year. I repeat what I already said in the principle debate, and what I hope most of our public knows is that the estimated drought damage during 2007 is about 46 billion dinars. So that's what the Ministry of Agriculture is and what the government has officially verified, and it can be considered that the damage is even greater, because those estimates are certainly done extremely restrictively. Finally, to take that fact, just for the compensation of that damage, Malten, it would take two such agrarian budgets, which are now planned. Furthermore, what I want to say, and what this government does not respect, which is, by the way, the rule and practice in the countries of developed agriculture, so, if you will, and in the farms of the countries in the environment, it is that the agrarian budget is incomparably greater than our agrarian budget. The agricultural budget in EU countries is at 120 euros per capita. The agricultural budget in Croatia, as a country of environment, is about 100 euros per capita. Our agrarian budget is below 20 euros per capita. It can only be a reference to how much this government cares about this and how important the economic branch, which, by the way, is among the rare industries that have achieved the foreign surplus, means, is an external trade surplus. In addition to all the problems she's had, our country has achieved over $700m of foreign trade surplus in the area of the agricultural and food industry, which is, of course, significant for this economic branch and which should mean that the larger funds in the budget are allocated, above all, to subsidisation. About 19 billion and 356 million were planned to subsidise agricultural production during 2008. That's about 0.9 billion more than it was in 2007. However, if only the damage caused by droughts is taken into account, then it is absolutely insufficient, especially if it counts on the fact that government decisions and legal changes, above all, of the Law on Income Tax, will be reduced to agricultural producers, but will be released from returning part of short-term loans that were split in 2007. So, the return on funds, which are still used as subsidies, will be reduced. It was therefore the basis for these funds to be planned in the larger volume for agricultural production. What, in essence, is being subsidized from the budget in the area of agricultural production? First of all, there is a regression, or subsidisation of instructions in war and vegetable production. So, using mineral fertilisers. It's a constant stagnation. The use and use of mineral fertilisers over the last 15 years, and it has been expressed in particular for the last 10 years, has a tendency to constantly reduce, and essentially there is no high production without adequate and high quality application of mineral fertilisers. Then, out of the grant funds, oil has been regressed as the main energy in agricultural production and, of course, these funds have been regressed and the prices of plant seed, because the intensity of using only and exclusively declared and quality seed, since it is guaranteed to achieve high production, normally, with adequate land treatment and the use of adequate amounts of mineral fertilisers. Furthermore, the subsidies subsidized livestock production, and above all, the purchase of breeding material, as it is necessary in our country to improve the quality of livestock and livestock stock, especially in cattle and pigmeat production, and also in livestock production. The subsidisation of breeding throats has been subsidized, so the renewal of fertilisation traps, and the subsidisation of cargo, first of all, cattle, means, tow animals, because the EU has approved one quota, I think it is eight or ten thousand tonnes, as a possible quota for the export of juniper meat to the European market. Without adequate subsidisation and repair of the quality of the town, tow cattle, this is difficult, especially in the unsettled market conditions in livestock production such as in our case during this year, where the price of the input is extremely high, means, above all, the price of food for animals, while the price of live cattle is in significant stagnation, especially in pig farming, so, if you will, and in this heroa, which affects most directly the loss in livestock production and the great problems of people dealing with this type of production. It was, of course, the basis for the state measures to assist this production. Also, the price of milk was subsidized, so-called. the dying of milk production in flat and mountain-mounted areas. This is the measure to be reconsidered, given that all milkers are privatised, that there are foreign owners and that their primary concern should be to provide sufficient quantities of milk. In our country, however, milk throats are traditionally grown, and they are also important from the point of view of the diet of our population. Surely you need to find a way to subsidize and this production, whether related to the quality of milk, not to the quantity. In any case, it should continue and subsidize with larger resources, and in relation to the planned funds, it is simply unsatisfactory. Furthermore, the development of rural agricultural production has been ensured through subsidies in agriculture, i.e. rural production. Unfortunately, during 2007, this government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance did not provide more significant funds for rural development of agriculture, as well as for 2008 and, in particular, through rural development, agriculture is improved agricultural production and placement in rural households, and these funds are also used to strengthen rural infrastructure, construction of water pipelines, sewerage networks, electrical networks, roads, telephones, etc. for rural tourism development. Rural tourism is something that is certainly perspective in our country, especially in mountainous and mountainous areas. Part of the rural development funds of agriculture is used to improve and protect the environment in these environments and to help and support non-competition agricultural land, means, above all, the elderly agricultural landowners, who cannot process their holdings, but are encouraged to give their country either to rent or to process it more easily. Furthermore, the subsidies we stand for, and we have advocated to increase, should be used to introduce quality standards in agricultural production, as this is necessary in order to be competitive on the European and world market. We must raise standards of quality and total agricultural production, especially agricultural products. In order to enable the introduction of a quality system in this production, it is inevitable to provide funds, as an incentive by the state. Then, what has been provided over the past periods through the agrarian budget, and what this is not provided for, which we have advocated, is an improvement of the professional agricultural services that are also necessary to raise the quality of agricultural production. Simply, the proposed budget does not plan a dinar to improve professional agricultural services. Let me just say that 200 million dinars were planned for last year, or for 2007. What I find particularly unreasonable and incomprehensible and what I want to say, and the finance minister wouldn't accept it as a proposal to change this budget projection, are anti-urban protection funds. We could hear in the previous discussion, from Miss Jovanovic, how much damage the Kragueva municipality suffered from the city. Major damages this year were all over Serbia, and with the budget proposal, the hydrometeorological institution has reduced the amount used to purchase anti-urban missiles by 80 million. So, we can expect even bigger problems in the security of anti-building protection and the acquisition of anti-building missiles. Since my time for debate is coming to an end, I will ask the president or should I continue now, or should I call later, and I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the minister, it is about long-term loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14583	Here, ask a question, of course, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14584	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask a parliamentary question and beg that it be recorded. I have received an answer from you to a asked parliamentary question, i.e. The answer arrived on July 26th, and I asked somewhere in June, when the debate on the budget, or May, I don't know when, in any case, the debate was about the 2007 budget, I asked for information, me and all MPs, how much has been paid back since 2004, how many long-term loans have been paid back? You provided data on how much the short-term was returned, however, no amount was given for long-term loans. I just want to remind you and all the other citizens that in 2004, 2.258,000,000 were given as long-term loans for the purchase of machinery and improvement of livestock production, i.e. for the purchase of breeding material, irrigation equipment, purchase and purchase of greenhouses and plastics and for the raising of multi-annual plantings. Furthermore, in 2005, 2,241,000,000 were given in 2006 – 1.259,000,000 and in 2007, about 1.500,000. Please give me an answer, so how many of these total long-term loans for improving agricultural production have been returned, here, to this day? I think it will be interesting for both the MPs and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14585	Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MP Stefan Zankov submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14586	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from the proposed 2008 budget, citizens should expect nothing good. It's another one in a number of consumer or, you can say now, and pre-election budgets. This budget will not be developmental, it will not help to create jobs that are needed across this country, but not to your employers who need to sell their goods here. This budget does not repay funds to farmers, as we have heard from my esteemed colleagues, who you have taken from them because of their poor parity in the process of production and placement. This budget isn't even social. What is the primary function of the country's budget? To implement the legal obligations of a country, to heal, to provide schools and to ensure security, legal certainty for all citizens, especially those who are unable to provide themselves with bread, heating, electricity, treatment, schooling, etc. I don't want to get into this right now, but one social state and society must take care of these people, who need to be provided with a minimum of dignity. It's a basic function. So you don't need the rich to help. All they have to do is make them richer, so they can earn more when they're taxed. That's why one state, I'd remind the citizens, shouldn't lift the excise on air-fuels without introducing liquid oil gas. If memory serves me well, as of January 1st, under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Excise Act, we will have more excise duties on liquid oil gas for four dinars. It is clear who uses air-fuels, who uses liquid oil gas in Serbia. Our government is acting, I would say, if it didn't agree with a drastic increase in the price of basic life supplies, but I believe she's looking forward to it, because the budget is getting bigger and bigger, and if it weren't, we'd cut taxes or excises and have the same effect in the budget. You don't want to stop robbing citizens, and the solution to the price of oil is that by intervention you'll try to knock down the price. It's a disaster, nothing less than this first thing I was talking about. It is yours to ensure that Serbia's goods are cheapest in Serbia. It will be good for both the state and the citizens, and for the producers, and for the budget. That's right, for example, with the price of milk, which is cheaper in some surrounding countries, not to mention them now, and that fact goes in favour. You've formed agencies for everything and everything. When we ask you or call for something, you say – no, we're not in charge, it's for the agency, it's legally independent in its work, etc. That's proof more that we were right about forming agencies. So we have criticised the formation of all these phantom agencies, which nothing good will do this country. If that's the case, then why do we need the government? Why don't we disband the government when we get the same answer to every other parliamentary question – it's a competent agency. Why do we need an executive government like it is in Serbia today? Many phantom offices are increasing the number of employees and becoming more expensive and expensive, so I don't read the individual offices that are these. On the other hand, you're saying there's not enough money for health care, so you need some restrictive measures to save. I'll give you an example from Zaječar municipality, where the children's surgery department is closed at the Health Center. All children have been transferred to the general surgery department, where there are no adequate conditions in number, nor to the quality of accommodation, especially no room for mothers who come with children, except for those children who are not from Zaječar, but from surrounding municipalities. The reasons are, as indicated, economic nature. Imagine now that country and those reforms that save children, more specifically, on sick children. Honorable people who work in health have rebelled against these senseless measures of the Director of the Health Center and have followed the penalty measures. Now there are different people in all parties. And when a bad proposal or instructions from the ministry arrives, the honorable people in the executive posts will find a way to answer that as they deserve. In Zaječar is the director of Veljković Health Centre of others, who run to realize all the devastating ideas. Your mouth is full of the European Union, and you want to save electricity, water and heating on children's health care. That's what it's all about, so everyone understands. There are even more unreasonable decisions from the Director of the Health Center in Zajecar, but on that second occasion, I will, therefore, talk about village health hospitals, stations and the like. What they're doing with sick kids, some of them passed out when they saw them at the old people's ward, something amazing. Their parents' revolt is extremely great. I don't know how far it's gonna get and what it's gonna come up with. For all normal people, something like this is unacceptable. Save, too, on insulin. Why don't you save on limos you buy for the ministries and the government in Serbia, if you're already saving so much? Pensions have fallen to 53% of the earnings due to fraud, paroled fraud, with a way of accounting since 2000, and this trend will absolutely continue. If you boast about the 40 billion-dollar surplus in the current year's budget, why not invest in such humane purposes? What are you going to do with that money? Whose money is that, if not those citizens you took? You live off selling what some previous authorities have kept, and when you sell it out, what are you going to do? You have increased the number of workers everywhere, and the Serbian Army has been mutilated. From October 5th to today, you've cut her more than half, and you've done it by assignment. One thing is clear -- there is no territory without an army that can thus save on defence and on the military. Whoever doesn't feed his army will feed someone else. As far as local self-government is concerned, as this amendment applies to Article 24, everyone has little transfer funds, but you have found a way to favour certain municipalities, those where yours are in power, over so-called. emergency transfers, no criteria. I'd like to hear the criteria for an emergency transfer of funds. Zaječar municipality submitted a request on 15 November for an emergency transfer of funds. In short, as long as I have time to state, for the sake of the citizens, what this request contains, that you may see the justification of this memo. They say: "We are addressing you with a request for assistance in the financial means for the work of Zaječar Municipality, for the reason that it is located in an extremely difficult, almost unexplainable financial situation, for several reasons: the municipality's budget has long been blocked by a judicial solution for the seized land by the factory "Kristal" Zajecar, amounting to 42 million dinars. That debt was created two decades ago, without any involvement of the municipality, was dramatically increased by high interest on the late settlement of debt. The total of this debt has been settled by the municipality's own resources, and these are extremely large funds for the Zaječar municipality. Immediately after the end of this problem, a new one also appeared in connection with a court solution related to the purchase of land for the new site of the cemetery in Zajecar. Based on this, the giro-account of the budget was blocked by 11.5 million dinars, which was reconciled from the municipality's funds, too, without help from the side. After this, a new giro-account blockade, amounting to 5.5 million dinars, followed for the seized land for the construction of collectors by the municipality. We recall that the municipality's economy is in very difficult condition, which, in turn, makes it slow to fill the municipality's budget and makes it impossible to operate the Zaječar municipality. For the sake of illustration, we remind ourselves that sometimes the strongest companies in the Zaječar municipality are now in such a situation that most of them do not work, that we do not now list which companies are involved. This led to a high unemployment rate, and thus to an increase in the poverty of the population. Zaječar municipality separates annually from the current budget reserve of about 10 million dinars for material aid to the most endangered layers of the population. Also, expenditure from the budget towards the Centre for Social Work for Material Assistance for the poor has been increased. On the other hand, the municipality makes great efforts to invest in capital investment projects, as much as it can, from its own funds and assets. In this year, a sports grounds complex was completed on Popovo beach in Zajecar and the Kraljevica ski resort from the municipality's own funds, costing about 200 million dinars. This year it was invested in the reconstruction of cultural homes in rural local communities of about 60 million dinars. It's about 15 local communities. The municipality allocates funds to maintain cultural institutions of regional importance – Zoran Radmilović Theatre, History Archive, Museum, "Nikola Pasic", Cultural and Educational Community, Dom Youth and Regional Television, which annually costs about 150 million dinars. In addition, the municipality, due to an adequate solution to the transportation of rural students to their schools in the city, bought on loan, we believe that this is the first case in Serbia, 12 buses and solved this problem in a satisfactory way, in debt to 53 million dinars in the long term. In addition, a long-term loan for capital investments amounting to 100 million dinars was taken to build roads, bridges, sports-recreation facilities, construction of sewers and other capital facilities in the city. At the end of last year, the municipality paid out of a loan for capital investments amounting to about eight million dinars in the name of a debt settlement that was due to be paid by the Republic of Serbia for a support programme for the municipalities of eastern Serbia, which is also invested in capital projects. The municipality rightly expects the Republic of Serbia to replace its debt. In addition, Zaječar municipality has an additional 30% stake in the funding of the National Investment Plan, i.e. the security of 400 million dinars for the plan, and our budget, according to the latest rebalancing this year, is only 950 million dinars. As for the reconciliation of our obligations, they have practically flooded the impoverished municipal budget anyway. '"Further states what is in danger of coming for execution. It is required to help with the payment of an emergency transfer of 60m dinars to address burning problems in the municipality. The 60 million dinars is the minimum estimated to be something the Zaječar municipality would have to get from the Republic of Serbia through an emergency transfer. According to the unofficial information I received, I have been reported, 10 million dinars have been granted to the Zajecar municipality. I find that extremely small. Is it a coincidence that the fact, I'm talking about Zajčar County, is that where they're in the power of the party: DSS, DSS, G17 and so on, they get extraordinary transfers, some twice, not to mention them. All the transfers from the Republika Srpska budget are small. I'd like to see the demands of these municipalities and the criteria to be run by the Ministry when they were approved, or applications, as it was addressed here. So, I'm afraid that the DS party apparatus did not allow you to decide on the basis of facts and arguments and I urge that an amendment be accepted to Article 24.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14587	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Bojan Milovanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14588	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I will try to explain this amendment in front of the SPS, instead of fellow MPs and colleagues in the profession of Dr. Bojan Milovanovic. In fact, it is a Article 24, which says: "The local authorities in 2008 can plan the total funds needed to pay the employees' salaries financed from the local authorities' budget, so that the amount of funds to pay 12 monthly salaries is planned from the level of salaries paid for November 2007, up to 10%" The amendment requires that this figure be replaced by a figure of 15%. Just an explanation why the amendment is not accepted is very interesting. It says this: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the macroeconomic framework of budgetary expenditures, and in particular the expenditure on salaries, does not allow for a greater increase in the funding for salaries in local government units than proposed." The first paragraph already indicates what the state's position is, what the government's position is in relation to local self-government, to the problems of people in local self-government and to the problems of municipal administration workers and local self-government, which are financed from the local self-government budget. The amendment clarifies, as a reason for proposing a percentage of salary growth in local government budgets of 15%, the growth of salary funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposed increase in salary growth in local authorities units is based on paid salaries for November 2007, while the increase in salaries in the Republic of Serbia's budget is shown to be lower than the increase in wages in the Republic of Serbia's budget by not one month, but for each month, so the growth rate is not comparable, i.e. the increase in salaries in the local authorities' budget is lower than the increase in salaries in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so the final figure shows that the salary mass of the Republic of Serbia's budget is ultimately increased by 15.4%. Using one criterion, or one archaic, for one, for the other, does not mean that it is not comparable, because what is the ultimate amount is very comparable and we will show you in case how drastic differences are almost double, between wages in local self-government and salaries in the state administration. According to the SPS, this budget is certainly pre-election, but it is locally wasteful. When we say, first of all, we think that if it's locally wasteful, it's wasteful for one, and for the other, it's restrictive. It is precisely for local self-government that this budget is restrictive, with elements of humiliation, even repression and punishment. Only in Article 24 of the proposed budget law are sanctions if the member is not respected. There are no members of this law. It is said clearly: "If local authorities do not plan in their 2008 budget decisions and do not implement the total pay-out funds in the manner set out in the position of the 1st member, the finance minister may suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, while the amount of salary funds is not harmonised" and so on. A direct threat to local self-government. Exactly, this budget is also a reflection of a deeply centralised government and state, in which perspective, there is no chance of local self-government. This also applies to the criteria for the redistribution of transfers, which have long been overcome, which are unfair and which, even, have many elements of political, as well as funds for the redistribution from the NIP, also have political elements. We'll contact the Ministry to tell us exactly what those transfer criteria were. Also, the SPS wants to remind this opportunity that it is not even close to the procedure of the law on the return of property to local self-government, which is a constitutional obligation for the state administration, for the state. As far as this is concerned, the SPS released the draft law on the amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, which was submitted by my colleague, Dr Bojan Milovanovic. I'm not gonna talk about it this time, I'm gonna talk about it some other time. I'm just saying that this law wants to solve this injustice in part, as this amendment wants to partially resolve and point to this injustice that has been done to local self-government. The author of this argument is as if he doesn't understand or knows how to account for wages in local self-government. This time I'll try to point that out. The salary in local self-government is accounted for under the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. Otherwise, the law ceased to apply on 1 January 2007, when the Law on salaries of civil servants and tenants entered into force. Another document for the account of these salaries is the Regulation on the coefficients for the account and payment of salaries appointed, appointed and employed by state authorities. The basis for the salary calculation is determined by the government's conclusion. There are no legal elements, but the government's conclusion. The salary of civil servants and deputies is calculated differently, the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, with paid classes and pay groups, and it is evident that the labour price, which is determined by the budget, is 15.4% higher this year. In the end, the wage mass in local self-government is determined by the budget, and the cost of working in the government's conclusion, which is not, I repeat, the power of the law, and for civil servants and deputies exclusively by budget, is 15.4% higher this year. The SPS wants to point to another anomaly that is happening in local self-government, which is related to the salaries of public service officers and public enterprises. In fact, we know that under the Law of Payments in State Authorities and Public Services, and by Article 12, workers of these services can raise salaries up to 30% of their own income, although they use the property of local self-government, which is still being led to the state, which is where local self-government is only damaged. Also, we recall that in November, public service coefficients were increased by 6.9%, and in December, after a strike of educators, increased by another 15 conditional and 10 plus 5%, respectively, if rationalisation is done. For the end, as an example of the pay gap, for the salary of an independent professional associate of the 7th degree in local self-government, the coefficient is 13.3 times 2,015.87, which is at the end of the 22.797 dinar. For this same independent seventh-degree expert, the state administration has a 3.56 coefficient, times 14.840, which is 52.830, about two and a half times higher. We do not want to oppose workers of local self-government and state administration, because we do not say that civil servants are comfortable with these new laws. On the contrary, many of them are damaged, many workers in the state bodies are dissatisfied with receiving salaries, precisely under the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. The confirmation of this is a strike that we had workers in the state administration, justice and social enterprises, precisely because of this law, which is otherwise deeply capitalist, which has a ratio of between 1 and 9 and which allows 90 percent of civil servants to live on the edge of existence, to have between 13,000 and 20,000 to some tenants and officials who have up to 130,000, as many workers in this assembly have 13,15, 20,000, and are thought to have much higher salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14589	I thank the People's MP, Ninoslav Dimitrievich. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is Kurban Bayram, a great Muslim holiday, and I want all Muslims in Serbia to congratulate Bajram, to spend it in happiness and harmony with their family, to prevail in the Muslim community, to overcome all divisions, because those who share them do not think well of them or Serbia. So I ask them once again to turn to peace, harmony and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14591	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The amendment, said MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expect and should, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, that by the end of this year, by the end of next week, laws on local self-government and local elections are entered into the assembly procedure. It is an opportunity to discuss a law that must be much better, first of all, because the Constitution has changed, and also because of the fact that the law on local self-government that was passed after the DOS came to power did not decentralise the local self-government in the way you said it by October 5th, criticising the regime then and any authority that was not from your so-called so-called. Democratic Corps. This member of the budget bill, he's talking about it right now. I have reported that I would give you some information and a clear representation of how the local self-government unit can work and provide salaries to employees to that limit, not as much as you suggest, if that authority is capable and if, according to that host of our people, everyone knows how much of a gobber it is and so much stretches out. This is how you put every unit of local self-government into a situation so that, through directives that come to you through legal solutions, they enter some illicit activities and invent something beyond the law, so that, eventually, the funds they can give to their employees, without being shown as wages. Because this limit, an increase of 10 per cent, may have been projected in line with alleged future inflation flows, which no one knows will be, because this year it has proved that Dinkic and Jelasic have both missed the level of inflation that will affect Serbia. Last night, you made one contribution to state TV, and they were about to justify that the purchase of food and energy prices has led to a higher rate of inflation than expected – 6.5 or 7%. I have to remind you, Mr. Minister, I really don't know what you were doing before 2000, you were probably dealing with finance in the field of your profession and science, for the glorious period of rule of Serbian radicals, which today also rule in the municipality of Zemun, but also in the period of election of Dr. Vojislav Seselj as the president of the Zemun municipality. At that time we found ourselves, in 1996, in the municipality of the chaotic state and a complete reconstruction was carried out, starting with the authorities of the municipal administration, to rebuild and place on healthy legs of public enterprises, designing such capital investments that today and today have some significance, and they will have only yet. Because at that time, whoever was thinking about Busias or the Blue Horizons, the settlements that were just a evasive place, and all those who wanted to buy these crying prices, you laughed, as well as the trades and all that the president of our party, as the elected president of the municipality, gave people the opportunity to live and work. Mrs. Radeta, who was the head of one of the most important municipal administrations, is a witness to the fact that these parcels and that money that was being poured into the municipality's budget led to a better position for all employees. That's how every local government should do it. In the ranks of our party is a young man, he may be uncomfortable that he is in the hall, an MP, Mr. Sasa Valjarevic, who has also received recognition for this year as one of the most successful directors of public enterprises since he is the director of the JKP in Pozarevec. You limit it, you limit all successful people who can incasate and profit in the municipality if they are responsible for the government as it was, how he does the job of directors, how radicals do it throughout Serbia, and you say – you have these funds, you are not over-indebted, you are not a municipality that has problems, but you cannot reward your employees over this level of 10%, because we have linearly determined it. Where's the justice? Where's the decentralisation? Now, if I'm wrong, there's a colleague of Radeta to correct me, but I believe I won't, to tell you how this responsible government, with Vojislav Seselj headed, has done already in Zemun in the next budget year, 1997. Since such a situation was found, since we started to use resources that had been intact for decades, as it started to build and work, that directly from sale, first of all, these payments, the money poured into the municipality's budget, the president of our party decided that according to this, since the municipality had successfully done business, to increase salaries to employees, and that was multiple. I remember back in 1997, when I was reading in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, in paid classes, how many storekeepers there were, how many housewives there were, at that time, the same as the pay of MPs. My colleague Micunovic and I were Members of the Council of Citizens, believe me that the salary of officials or porters in the municipality of Zemun was almost the same as our parliamentary salary in the Federal Assembly. That is indeed the whole truth, not to mention the chiefs of the administration, etc. It wasn't a boast of power, it was a possibility for what exists to be used, for these people to be rewarded for their work. We've published in the "Zemunski novine", the municipal paper that comes out today, completely as it looks, from the 1st to the 9th pay grade. No one could believe it, and everyone was surprised. I then read it in Kragujevac, from the congregation booth, and they wondered, how is it possible that someone has such and such wages? It is not our goal and our intention that now, in the municipalities where radicals exercise power, the president of the municipality has 300-400 thousand dinars, and that in a town like Kragujevac, where 40,000 people have no job, people have nothing. Come on, please, the possibility is that no one is abnormal, so that they go to some extreme and increase their salaries, firstly, the president of the municipality to themselves, so the directors of the company, to some level to which the public companies now do so, are under your control. You saw, when Mr. Todorovic read, or I spoke about the Elektrochumadi Kragujevac, how high the salaries are, by 10 times the average salary in Serbia, without talking about Flight Control, etc. Mr. Minister, this cannot contribute to the development of local self-government, and it is in line with all those standards that will be incorporated into the law on local self-government, which the Assembly needs to adopt. Give each and every municipality in Serbia the opportunity to work and develop, to assess and see how it works, when projections of funds. I really agree with the fact that the state must be very energetic and, in that sense, to implement every limit and ban if the local community goes into debt that goes beyond the limit or is at that border. I remember that this Vesna Djindjic, even through the allowed level of borrowing of certain local self-government, approved it on behalf of the ministry and Mladjan Dinkic. This is where the state needs to be very rigorous, because local self-government has in itself no goal of borrowing and taking loans, thus serving the needs of citizens, but doing something, projecting and earning. Each environment has its own specificity. In some environment you can have a greenfield investment, in some you can have development projects in the area of agriculture, somewhere in the area of tourism, for example, in the Zlatibor area, in our Banja climate areas, but in Stari Paza – four industrial areas. How much money did local self-government get? Now, the question of what will happen to the privatisation of RTB Bora, since you put the Russians and Mr. Deripascu on the stand by, what would you say? You could have wanted, as a state, a direct contract with that company, behind which stands the top of the state government and, directly, the president of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, to arrange to sell RTB Bor after what happened, not a public call, so that the Austrian firm would now appear. It could have been one from Texas, or Australia, and because of the fact that they offer 94 or 96 million more, and in the total balance of their investment, but they don't offer a social programme, or offer investments for the next period, as the Russian firm of Mr. Deripasca offers, we are in a position to, as a state under your authority, who knows which time we tell the Russians that they are undesirable for our market. We won't, we want to have an alliance in every way with the Russian Federation and anyone who wants to bring capital here, but not to leave the workers at large, like it did in Sartide and in many other factories, and that after a year these people have nothing. No, but to make sure that these people have to be taken care of and that those who work are well rewarded. You see how his companies do business. There is Master Mirović, who is an expert in the Russian business and tourist scene, if I didn't speak up now, he'd spill it out of your sleeves, tell you just how many people they have, and that's what they say – that's this new Russian elite, that's young people, educated in Russia, who have huge salaries and in Mr. Deripasco's company and everywhere they work and work successfully. We are not demagogues in that sense, so let's say now – Valjarevic, you are one of the most successful directors of public enterprises, but Cvetkovic has restricted you and your salary is so great. So we can't go into that kind of demagogy, and at the same time, especially these yellow ones of yours, and where the presidents of the municipality are, and where the opposition are, they're pushing for us to decentralised the state's attitude towards local self-government. Through that story, which was just an empty story, you have gained citizens' trust in many cities in Serbia in 2004. Some citizens know, when we finish this job and choose Tomislav Nikolic, on January 20th, for the president of Serbia, we will go to local elections wherever they are, we believe, right after that, but by law that needs to change, maybe next week to enter the procedure. Let them then choose Serbian radicals, because they will fight for each municipality to have enough income, not to be in charge, that, like today's fellow and others, they are doing well and that it is for the benefit of employees in the municipality and all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14593	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The National MP Vidoje Jovanovic submitted to article 24. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14594	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, is about an amendment to Article 24. Law proposal: ''After item 1, a new position of 2, which reads: ''Local authorities in municipalities up to 25,000 inhabitants of a mass of money to pay the salaries of item 1 of this article can increase by an additional 10%. ''So the question is how would such a solution systemically regulate these relationships that we want as an SPS to be placed in the functioning of local self-government and how rightly this would solve. In any case, we believe that attention should be paid to what is the role and functioning of local self-government as a significant segment in the exercise of the overall government in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, they are hit by an interior environment, and we have a large number of municipalities that are really small, with a small number of inhabitants, with little budgets, which are faced with numerous problems, where the low standard of the population is a small number of people employed, along with the depopulation process, which covers increasingly wider spaces within Serbia. On the other hand, we have metropolisation, especially "Belogradation", and we believe that Serbia cannot see the future in the fact that it comes down to the great power and functioning of the state through Belgrade, through the functioning of the city of Belgrade. So, first of all, there's a case where the mass was found, or the level of income in local self-government, and even in the municipal administration, a few years ago it was really small, and, on the other hand, this area with a limit on mass compared to November, with the right to raise 10% in 2008, it's also small. We have a process of intensive draining highly educated personnel from the interior, from municipalities like this, the departure of people. As we have a process of going abroad of those people who are worth from the Republic of Serbia, even from developed environments, too, from these environments to the interior, we have people going to bigger cities, to Belgrade, and so on. These environments and human resources remain poor, they are on the verge of a decent human potential, which can and should finish some of the work that is important for local self-government, of course, and for the state itself of Serbia. I don't know in which way, but the height of the salary differs from the municipality to the municipality, in drastic terms. In what way does the administrative inspection, I don't know, of course, I don't point my finger in the sense that there are some deviations of this or that nature. I think that the administrative inspection often trains strictness, so to speak, in municipalities in the interior and that local self-government must stick to what it is, the Law on wages in state authorities, which, by the way, has ceased to apply after the adoption of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, but applies to the level of local authorities. This law adheres to what it is to the Regulation on the coefficient for the calculation and payment and to the appointment of posted and staffed persons in state bodies. There was this model of using those 30% pay increases if there is a so-called own income, however, that possibility is no longer relatively, so I say, we often come to the situation that administrative inspectors train strictness in small municipalities, and that in larger municipalities, or in larger cities, it is inevitable that these salaries are much higher. I don't know which way, but that only discourages those less environments, the poorer environments. This contributes to a further outflow of personnel from these municipalities. I think we should pay attention to that fact. We also have this situation that, for example, the basis of the work, which is related to the previous amendment, determines the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When the wages are compared in local self-governments, provided that they are actually paid by law and by these coefficients, i.e. on the basis of the Regulation, then, figuratively, these increases could be said to go to the spoon, of course, in the context of the growth of the permitted mass compared to the eleventh month of the previous year. Ten per cent is scheduled this year. This looks like a spoon, compared to civil servants working in republican authorities, whose growth is projected in next year's budget and is allowed at a higher percentage than in local self-government. For example, for example, a highly educated staff, meaning, with college, in local self-government, has a coefficient of 1.30, and the labour price is 2,015 dinars since 1.9 this year. So the pay is about 22,800 dinars. On the other hand, the civil servant has 3.65 times 14.840, what is the labour price, is equal to 52.830. With this I do not point to the fact that the high salaries of civil servants are in the Republic's organs. We agree that this is a salary that should certainly exist, although it should also be taken into account for those personnel with a lower level of expertise, who, indeed, have a small salary, regardless of what they do in the republican state bodies. Certainly the fact is, what is the subject when we talk about local self-government, is that these are also low wages for higher education staff, but also for low-skill staff. So the impression is that local self-government has not been evaluated, is not respected to the extent that it is necessary. Indeed, it is necessary, because it is not only the character of the state in what is the functioning of the state through state bodies that exist in the centre of the state, in the capital, of course, and through the detached bodies in other municipalities, but also in so-called trusted businesses, which are very important. Therefore, when it is said state, peasant or worker sees it in what is the functioning of the municipality itself. Our pledge goes in this direction, that we should take care of it and, in some ways, hurry up with local self-government being violated and respected in a decent way, to pass appropriate laws, which would define the status and position of employees in local self-government. On the other hand, it is necessary to take care of what these poor municipalities are, which are on the verge of existence in every respect, because if that edge of existence is at a minimum, or goes to a minimum, then we have a continuation of population depopulation, we have Serbia's nakedness, then we are facing empty spaces in Serbia, and where there are no people, there is no state. In that sense, the SPS also wants to draw attention to you who are now in power to, of course, take care of it. Of course, you certainly take care of yourself in a certain way, but I think that the accent should be put on that side, because life and what it is is the function of the state can't only come to the functioning of the capital, only to the functioning of larger cities, but to take care of life and work and working conditions in every municipality, even if it is small, in every local community, in every village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14595	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14596	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here is counterpart Natasa before me, and also colleague Miletic Mihajlovic talked a lot about problems in local self-government, in the sense that the coefficients and, in general, the salaries paid by local self-government officials are very low. I don't know if Mr. Minister is familiar, but all local self-governments are on strike, so the administration isn't working properly because they announced the strike. They asked the minister to increase their salaries within the budget projection, as there are very large differences between workers in local self-government compared to workers in public enterprises. However, this was not respected and no agreement was reached, so the government, the finance ministry, in the projection of this budget, did as last year. They're damaged again. There are big problems, now it's the end of the financial year, many important projects are being completed. Transfers of funds from the budget to public enterprises and other firms contracted during the year cannot be realised. But the Ministry doesn't seem to care about local self-government workers at all. As counterpart Natasa said, about the case when our President Vojislav Seselj was the president of the Zemun municipality, it was one of the most successful municipalities in Serbia, with one household work, which lasted not only 7 to 15 hours, but worked day and night until the Zemun municipality was brought to be one of the most developed and best municipalities in the city of Belgrade. Mr. Minister, you didn't hear me, since you weren't even there, I was talking about problems in local self-government, that at the moment all local self-government, all the administrations that work in local self-government, are on strike. You have probably been informed, negotiated with you, however, they have not respected their demands regarding the increase of wages in local self-government, so it is very difficult to work with all local self-government in Serbia, so I think you should have accepted this amendment. It's really inappropriate, if we compare, that an economist or a lawyer in a public enterprise has a salary of over 50-60,000 dinars, and a lawyer or economist who works in the municipality, the same responsible job, has only 20 and something, up to 30,000 dinars maximum. The amendments submitted under the budget law could change that, however, there seems to be no hearing about it. The strike continues. How this will result in the end of this financial year, we will see, because the work of all local self-government is very difficult. Please, one more time, think twice before voting on the budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14597	I thank the MP Sasa Valjarevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14598	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, is also here on the amendment to Article 24: ''In Article 24. The draft law, after Article 2, adds a new position 3, which reads as follows: "Budget users of Item 1 of this Article who, under the means allowed, cannot pay salaries according to the prescribed coefficients, have the right to coordinate the mass of the funds required under the approval of the ministry". So, of course, it is necessary to take account and keep, as it is said, on a sigh, or under control of what is public spending, which is the growth of wages within all authorities of the state administration, of course, and in local self-government, so it means also finding appropriate mechanisms to control the level of pay and local self-government. What are those salaries, through the previous two amendments we talked about. However, this is about some specificities that exist in some municipalities and that concern some of the users of municipal budgets. So we have in this 24th member a position that speaks of the allowed mass growth for payout and that mass is established on the basis of the mass of the 11th month for the previous year, increased by 10 percent, which will be the payout mass of the next year. However, there are users of municipal budgets that were found at a certain level of pay a few years ago, according to certain coefficients that were in force at the time and which, after the introduction of the rapper, or the rules to pay are limited to some month, whether at 9, or 11, it seems to me, or to 11, simply, at that time, were found and limited by that mass, and that they could not later benefit from that mass resulting from the permitted, or the prescribed coefficients for a given profession on that valid basis, because, using these coefficients, they would have penetrated this permitted mass. In this regard, I draw attention to the fact that the number of employees in these institutions, i.e. in those institutions, of these users, is not pre-named, it is within the scope of certain normatives that exist in these professions. We have, for example, kindergartens, or cultural institutions, or some other users in some of the municipalities that are facing this problem. In particular, I would like to point out only one example: kindergartens have the right to pay salaries with educational coefficients, in the absence of a special law for preschool institutions, which is yet to be passed in the National Assembly, but which has not reached its turn. Based on what they're looking for and what they're doing is a program of those preschool institutions, it's supposed to be, but hopefully it will be. So, in the absence of a special law for preschool institutions, it has been decided that employees in kindergartens can pay salaries by coefficients from education. If they apply those coefficients at a given time, they are not able to pay the corresponding salaries and with those heights, because the allowed space that is designed, or which is directed by adopting this budget, it does not allow. It couldn't have been done last year, it couldn't have been done this year either. We do not claim this amendment, nor do we appeal to drop this limiting factor that controls public spending in local self-government. She, of course, must exist. This is about exceptions, where we have a condition so specifically found that employees can't accomplish what they can on the basis of the prescribed coefficients. That is why the amendment also said they have the right to coordinate the mass of the funds needed, but after the ministry's approval. So, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, even if this amendment, for these or those reasons, did not adopt you, to have such cases in mind and to allow contact with your services or resolutions within the Ministry, and to allow, through an analysis of such cases, to make exceptions where it is justified, where this is how I, roughly, explained, if I was clear, and to find common language in their resolution, so as not to discriminate on certain categories of people, in this case, in children's institutions. Of course, I don't need to talk about professions, or a job that is very important, and it's not that easy, whose role is to raise a youth, children, who are going to be standing up and doing this job that we're doing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14599	The word has been made by MP Dusan Stupar, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14600	Yesterday we had a chance to see that Mr. Secretary was seriously listening to our amendments and our questions. In your afternoon presentation, you answered my question, which has been referred to by associations of damaged military and civilian persons, it is about, as budget users are concerned, the users of the Ministry of Defence. You're in this budget for the next year for over 18 billion dinars. I can say that I was partially satisfied with your answer, because you went out for a pay phone and answered that you would pay particular attention to that question, that you would consider and that you were aware that there was a government obligation to military and civilian persons who worked in the military, and that, in some way by 2010, you would try to make up for them. However, I, Mr. Minister, would ask this question again, because we have the papers of several associations, which have been trying for several years on a legitimate path, through the court, to exercise their right. Namely, it is the Association of damaged and military civilians of Serbia, based in Belgrade, Bircanin Street, number 2, Association of retired Serbian sub-officers, based in New Belgrade, Jurija Gagarina, 60, Association of retired members of the Army, based in Pancheva, Association of Refugees, Exclusive and Temporaryly Displaced Persons of the "Home of Sweet Home", living in a military facility, in the barracks, Predorska bb, Belgrade, Association of Military Homeless Serbia, Brace Jugovic, 19, Belgrade. Mr. Minister, we've been petitioned. On the one hand, we have 1,630 families who signed the petition as one association. We also have a second petition, which over three thousand and some families have sent. They expect and say that, as defenders of the country, as people who bled for Serbia when it was most difficult, during NATO aggression, and now humiliated and disproved, on the basis of Article 56. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being petitioned by the president of Serbia's Supreme Court. What have the judicial authorities, Mr. Minister, found in this case, which I have already notified to the public and you, as the minister in charge of taxpayers' money, which are expensive in the budget? In court proceedings, over a thousand skills have been done. What has been determined by the judgments of the municipal courts? The military budget for the current business year is being prepared, proposed and explained by the defence minister, until October 15th of next year. Such a procedure is prescribed by Article 23. The SRJ Finance Act. This means that the accused party was obliged to plan the necessary funds under Article 75(1) and 137 when drawing up the proposal for a military budget, in the section relating to salaries. The law on the Yugoslav Army and in line with the federal government's decision to determine the coefficients for determining the total amount of funds for salaries, according to the 3-to-net rate in the economy of the Republic of Serbia for the previous month, and 2.1 for civilian figures in the Yugoslav Army. You answered yesterday, to my question, that you were familiar with it. Mr. Minister, when a budget is adopted, when a certain amount of money is found on one of the canisters, how is it possible that someone from that conta can also take non-intentional funds and transfer them for other purposes? It's legally punishable. Someone, Mr. Minister, when all this is cleared up, has to answer. It's impossible for someone to spend money, to have no responsibility, but these are taxpayers' money, purposely defined. It's impossible for someone one year, in 2000, 2.7 billion from the budget, practically, to spend. What does that look like based on forensic findings? The Court of Justice found that the federal budget for 2000 set the funds for salaries to employees in the military amounting to 5,542,537,857 dinars and that those funds were sufficient to pay them according to those rules, not according to others, but according to these regulations, and that only 50% of this amount was required to pay all of them. However, only 2.7 billion were paid. How is it possible for someone to make a decision to spend that money, which was intended for salaries for that year, on another basis? For the following year, in 2001, 10,493,440,000 dinars were provided for that purpose, and wages required 6,256,684.067 dinars, Members of Parliament. That year four billion went missing. Next, in 2002, the budget envisioned, for the Ministry of Defence and the Yugoslav Army, a total of 13.595,361,000 dinars, and it was necessary, according to legal regulations and criteria, 11 billion. Two billion again. Mr. Minister, next year, instead of 16 billion, 12 billion were spent. All that when you add up, the number is about 14 billion. You were in the next period, since you didn't predict, part of the funds had to be increased. If it is established, if there are judgments, if some are executed, it is impossible for someone to get a court ruling and cannot charge. On the other hand, it is obvious that this is possible, because all this about military reservers, which has been shaking Serbia over the past few months, is happening because someone, based on a court ruling, can't, even though they have a verdict to get their money, to their rights. We all say the law is the same for everyone. You can see here that the law, even though it exists, is not the same for everyone. What do the gentlemen who made this request and petition say? The money found by the Assembly by the Budget Law, according to the defendant's recognition, was paid to a special payment appraisal. Someone was spending, according to one of the defence ministers, on purpose. Gentlemen, one of your colleagues, one of the political elites now in power, has been Minister of Defense since 2000. Who's been spending the rest of his life unsuspectingly? Someone, gentlemen, has to answer. Tell me, Mr. Minister, what will happen to the people who, in the meantime, are going to lead this court dispute, get sick or, God forbid, die? Is the state gonna pay for that? Who's gonna make it up to the state after? So the state can't treat its citizens unreal. When it was supposed to defend the state, everyone responded, did their job fairly, and in the end, these same citizens are looking for protection today, not in these courts, because they can't do it here, now they're going to the International Court. Is it normal that in our country, where, as you say, all democratic, everything is transparent, when it comes to the interests of citizens, we cannot do it through the court, to do it in the best way, in the interests of the state, but to force them to go to the International Court. What do you think the International Court of Justice says, what kind of state are we? We say that we should be, in your words, a European, civilised state, and that in the case we can't see at all. I don't think you're going to accept the amendments we've submitted, but to these citizens, for the sake of civil persons, people who have worked fairly in the military, if you don't accept this now, in this year for the budget, you can't say, Mr. Minister, that in 2010, you're going to calculate these funds. What will you do, Mr. Minister, if, in 2008, all these solutions, these complaints, must be executed in the International Court? Then what are you going to do in the 2008 budget, when you're going to have to find the funds and pay the citizens? Therefore, respected citizens, all of you who have sent a letter, all of you who have failed to exercise your right to vote on January 20th, with a heart for Serbia, with a heart for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14601	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14602	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, is a favorite topic, and I don't miss the chance to point out at moments like this, it's actually a commission fee, as a reward for the success of that sales agent that realises privatisation as a success. That Article 25, otherwise, regulates that funds are made in the privatisation process, which are paid into the payment account of the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 5% for compensation to persons whose property is nationalised and that payment of these funds and payment criteria will be regulated by a special law, talks at least two things. One is that in the elections, the people spoiled the government, because they are ready to register the right and enroll the right to treat the very part of the return on property. So, the establishment of property rights, the right to restitution, through the application and registration of that right, someone might like it, someone can believe it, but it's still not real. It is entirely independent of the fact that the SRS has a special view of restitution, because it is not possible to achieve absolute justice by restoring property and it is not possible to say that it is precisely from that moment that you have established a moral, acceptable, legal and otherwise, and that we are against such a way of establishing a right to restitution, it gives me the right to remind you of the actuality of the theft of the budget and its vague statement on the receiving side and to submit the amendment. The amendment, which I have submitted, reads: "The report on the funds achieved from the sale of capital in the privatisation process, and the pre-payment of fees of 5% of the agreed price, set out in the Regulation on the height of the special fee", which Mr Bubalo has sharpened, "It is delivered to the Ministry of Finance and to the relevant assembly committees within seven days of the conclusion of the sale". Believe it or not, respected citizens, the finance minister, who is responsible for the republican budget, has no idea what the costs of the privatisation process carried out by the Privatisation Agency are. There is no privatisation agency in this budget, no amount of spending, no number of employees, and it has the largest assets and the most significant processes in this society, leaves people without a job, sells out huge assets, hard-earned ones, and for that it doesn't give anyone a report. With this amendment, I ask the Privatisation Agency, established by the Government and which does not tolerate anyone, to break that practice and to know which financial and legal advisers are engaged, how much it costs to publish ads in foreign and domestic press, as much as what is not only paid by the company in the privatisation process is taken away by the Agency, before paying into the account of Serbia's budget, is part of the corresponding price. So, at the cost of all costs, the Agency keeps itself 5% and only then pays the budget. If I don't look boring and don't have to insist on something that's irrelevant, I'll just remind you of the numbers. In the budget law, which is contributed to the memorandum, the minister and the government have given us information that since 2002, with nine months in 2007, the sale price has been reached in millions of euros, of 2.521.000,000 euros, in the real sector, without businesses and financial institutions, and it is already a famous, second agency. So, of the companies sold, the government delivers a report, worth 2.521,000,000 euros. So, 5% of the commission, as a reward for success, on that figure, I'm talking about the Rules on the amount of compensation set by the minister, the Privatisation Agency has kept itself so far. Because it says here, sales price, no calculations and inventions, constructions, but, as always, the "Official Messenger" and the language of numbers, as some say – 126m euros has been kept by the Privatisation Agency. Now you see the ratio of numbers. Another agency, which we can look through the budget, called the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, is the famous "SIEPA", over which Mrs Jasna Matic has the power, through the G17 Plus party, has 30 employees and has the budgeted funds of 200 million dinars this year. So, 200 million dinars, at an 80-euro rate, and when we round, it is 2.5m euros. So the agency we see in the budget spends 2.5m euros per year. Do you know what jobs to do? At contract services, the production of brochures and quality promotional material, the organisation of high-quality promotional events, presentation of Serbia's economic potential at fairs and abroad. So this agency hires some other marketing agencies, printing and similar services, to make promotional material, so that foreign direct investment, what we call direct investment, greenfield and exports, comes into the country. Almost everyone knows that these are ideal jobs for what is called – money laundering and political support of the party, marketing services, printing services and all those professional services for which it is difficult to obtain material evidence for the realization of the job. What does this agency justify its effect, that is, this cost? We also have a memo on foreign direct investment of 3.5 billion euros, but of which 90% of the income is, in fact, privatisation and sales, not foreign direct investment, Greenfield and those for which we pay this agency. So every expense must have its own justification. What was the SIEPA doing? She paid two to 10,000 euros per job, until Dinkic took it to ask himself, through the ministry whose head she is now. My insistence on cost transparency and the billing for this job is not motivated by any other reasons, except for the principled reasons of the responsible political party, which is obliged to influence this policy. So, modern capitalist states, which no longer insist on the exclusion of a system called liberal and state capitalism, such as or such, in their state systems and in their economic systems, establish institutions called development banks, external trade banks for export-imports and certain institutions dealing with technological affairs. It does Japan, it does China, it does all the industries that count on long-term development. You know why? Because it was long ago understood that the market, which Adam Smith thought was perfect and that his hand was leading everything, had imperfections that the state must, by its doing, correct. So, technological development, the export of one economy and the development of one society. That's what we're running from. We form para-state institutions that spend a lot, over which we have no insight, or secretly support exports, through some para-state bodies. You know why? A Bulgarian economist and theorist made a devastating claim -- countries in transition organise elections, have multi-party systems, vote for some parties, and then the party that gets the largest number of votes forms a government. Then the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and finance, appeared, which say the government has an economic programme. In a very visible way, we are a polygon for the realization of such a claim, because it turns out that the realisation of our economic policy comes down to privatisation, unreserved, non-critical, and we don't even know why we have this, as a major systemic problem, but we also have a problem with spending budget money, for which no one wants, and we keep asking, to deliver our accounts. I think my story of a 5% commission is as a reward for success, which the Agency, which we don't see in the budget, retains, is an unacceptable practice. Because if someone since 2002, and in 2001 is not contained in this report, spends 126m euros, it is two and a half Beikin cement factories, which were first sold in privatisation. Just so you know the order of sizes. So 126m euros has been spent by someone we don't know how many people are hiring, who we hire for the services we pay them in particular. I think this is both the time and the place for us to look, especially when in this country comes a time when loans will be taken with a period of rest while the DOS is in power, very soon to arrive for payment, not only as a payment of interest, but also as a payment of the principal. So, the loans that started to arrive in 2001, 2002, are no longer the period that will make it difficult for some new government to do government work. The reason that every dinar that needs to go into the budget is, by the nature of things, the state's income, among other things, the next. Do we need to worry about the obligations you impose? Is this power guided by it after me, even if it is a flood? I guess there is someone, if you and your direct descendants aren't obliged to live after you leave power, you must have some distant relatives, or some cheeks, so you can say tomorrow – we've done everything, and the effects are what they are. But you're not going to do what's minimum responsibility to a function called a government. You're not going to do a minimum of that. They're calling us public, so let's get this information. The privatisation agency spent 126 million on company sales. How much from the bankruptcy procedure for the sale of paintings, buildings, issued, sold, received by the Agency for Rehabilitation and Banks bankruptcy? You know that the largest figures, hundreds of millions, are earned in the area of the financial sector. I'd tell you that, too, but in the memo, the government doesn't export them, and it's just descriptive, though, not high-literary style, it touches these topics. But hopefully, there'll be opportunities to weigh those data, which we don't have any insight into, one day we'll bring it to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14603	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Is there anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Thank you. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14604	I have submitted an amendment to article 26 of this law. This member refers specifically to the Ministry of Religion, which is said to be financed by the Ministry, which has so far been financed by the 551-non-financial assets financed from the National Investment Plan, will be implemented through a new 489-expension – expenditure financed from the funding for the realisation of the National Investment Plan, transfer to investors - churches and religious communities. Right at the beginning to clarify, the SRS is not against funding religious communities and churches, we're just against ways. That is why I have submitted an amendment to this article, because of the way it will be financed this year by religious communities and churches. The National Investment Plan was criticised in this parliament, when it was also brought to the realization, both in the previous government and now, and given that it is headed by the National Investment Plan of the Ministry led by Minister Gilas, we can doubt what way it will finance itself in 2008 and what network religious communities and churches are mired in. It gives me the right to doubt that Minister Gilas will finance those religious communities that are attached, or favored by certain political parties, which is absolutely forbidden. In a situation, for example, where in Sandzak religious communities, which are in conflict, you can imagine, when the National Investment Plan comes into the story of financing them, it favors one side, or favours the other side, what damage all citizens living in the middle where this religious community is and what consequences the states will have. My amendment is, right now, opposed to that way and it's said that article 26 is deleted. We believe that this member should be deleted from the law and otherwise regulate the procedure by which projects of national importance will be financed. In fact, the state has no investment of national importance, as this depends, approximately, on who is at the head of the NIP and who is headed by the ministry. Given the media support given to the NIP, or the tours of Mr. Gilas, who, with his National Office, was able to run the entire television and media campaign, we can imagine what would happen to such large funds available to the NIP, especially in this sensitive situation and matter where religious communities and churches are concerned. I appeal to the speaker of the assembly, Mr. Chairman, if you can pass it on to the president, or if the president hears me, yes, when he comes to the media to announce the views of the assembly, he is urging the media not to put aside any political candidates who are currently in the election race. Because media support has been very clear these days. Mr. Gilas, when he enters the stream and knows what rivers and seas, he'll have to take a bath by January 20th. Since it's winter, I take strict care of his health situation, not to catch cold, but the fact that the media favored him these days, in culture, and in sports. The Serbian Football Federation Assembly held these days, where it was very important what Goran Jesic of Indjija thinks of football. Don't think it's an accident. I would appeal to all the media not to put themselves on any political side. As far as this House is concerned, we've heard here that everyone wants Serbia well. On January 20th, I call on all those who really want from the heart good to Serbia, to freely, with all their heart, round Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14605	On the amendment, MP Lidija Vukicevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14606	Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, before we conclude the debate on the budget, I would like to present my opinion and pro-proposed budgets to grant national pensions. I think it's my responsibility. I don't think the budget debate should end without mentioning such an attractive action that's happened in the last few days. So, like I said, I'm talking about national pensions, or recognitions for a special contribution to national culture. MPs in the Assembly Hall were familiar with this assignment of national pensions, citizens were able to be informed through daily and weekly newspapers, but I think they were best placed and it was most interested in those artists who were on the list for obtaining national pensions, and they were left without them. Someone can say – however we did, someone would certainly not be satisfied, or – there would always be someone who would protest and say that it was not done properly. No, it's not true. It's not that all the applicants should receive national pensions at all. Let's leave something for next year, because the budgets that are allocated to culture aren't that big that we could all be able to grant national pensions. The elemental problem here is that, absolutely, it wasn't done by clearly defined and precise criteria. I don't want to mention any names on the list of people who got a national pension, which maybe they shouldn't have gotten in this time period of their lives. It is really not my intention, with all due respect and respect for those who have won and earned this national pension. I publicly, from a congregation pay phone, congratulate them from the heart, to all my colleagues who have truly earned and received this pension. You've been able to see in the papers lately to speculate with different titles, about, so I don't paraphrasise them, this is how it goes: "The Commission's work wasn't entirely independent. Some parties got involved. Even one member of the Commission, and the Commission is very disputable, a little later on, I will say, 'I am not authorized to make statements on the selection of people who were on the list for obtaining national pensions'. Believe me, I can't understand that sentence. Maybe I don't understand it, but I don't believe that someone who was a member of the National Pensions Commission later can't give a statement to the newspaper and explain why this actor, painter, chef, writer, translator, got a national pension. What's the point of what I went out for is that, given the number of people reported, which is about 900, it may not be true in number, but it doesn't matter, it's got a pension of 258 registered. So, you had to make an objective choice and give pensions to truly deserved artists, who contributed to our national culture. The elemental thing that is not respected, I'm surprised the government was able to allow such a thing, is that no clear and precise criteria were made. It's the most elementary thing, without which we can't bring any judgment and no conclusion. The criteria had to be made and shared to bring the structures of the following activities: science, art, education, especially high, sports; for sport, to find a common denominator for people who made a special contribution to sport. The government, as a financier, had to act in accordance with existing criteria. However, how can the Government act according to the criteria, when we had no clearly defined criteria at all? I hope you agree with me that the rule is that whoever allocates the funds, so the donor, in this case the Government, must also bring criteria, and whoever distributes the funds, must behave in accordance with and based on the established criteria. So that's the elemental problem. The defined criteria did not exist, and this is why such chaos was committed, and so many people, rightly, remained dissatisfied. Something completely opposite happened here. The applicants of the proposal gave criteria and arranged, which is inadmissible and which, you will admit, absurd, so we had at the Association of Librarians the case, you could also see from the newspapers that our esteemed writer Radomir Smiljanić stepped forward, no longer wanted to be a member of the Association of Librarians, because the Association did not propose him. In fact, associations shouldn't have proposed their candidates. It's an esnaf. The government has allowed associations within themselves to argue, which is unacceptable. It's because of these general criteria, common criteria, this action, which presupposed to be noble, which, as much as anyone disproved or not, should have had a social character, turned into its opposite. The Commission which decided who would receive the national pension, and who not, was not adequately composed and did not have representatives of all artistic activities in its composition, which is, you will admit, an absurdity. By the way, it's a very bad choice of people, I don't say all of them, but most people who got national pensions, and they didn't deserve it. I have to say, in the draft budget law, I read, "In the appraisal... ''' (Apropriation is the acquisition or acquisition of property, in order to make it easier for citizens to adopt it) ''472, the funds are planned to pay special recognitions to artists for the highest contribution to national culture in the Republic of Serbia, and the schedule and use of this appraisal will take place under a special government act'. I don't know what the government's act is and what should have been regulated by that government act. If no clear criteria are defined, then I really don't know what that government act should have meant in this case. Something else that wasn't taken into account, which is very important, is that people who went into the National Pensions Group, first of all, had to get equal pensions, for the simple reason that someone once, say, 15 years ago, retired on one basis, so his pension at this point amounts to, say, 14,000 dinars, and someone left three months ago, so his pension is 40,000 dinars. Both artists deserve it, so they joined the National Pensions Group. If we add 50,000 to that, this one will have 75,000, and this one of 40,000 will have 90,000 or 100,000 pensions. So we're making a social difference again, and we haven't done anything at all. What I would still like to point out, which I think should be, if not for this year, since the matter is already over without any consultation of the general public, to be done next year, it is that the person on this list, the person who enters the list to get a national pension, which is still active, on the basis of annual incomes that go beyond the maximum, must be completely or partly excluded from the list for the assignment of national pensions, for the simple reason that this national pension also had a social character. Because, you'll admit, none of those 900 artists were going to teach the administration documentation to be told by the government – you're really an artist who contributed to national culture, you're a top artist. We're going to have to look into the truth and realize that's what this whole action is all about. I'm not saying this, so someone doesn't get me wrong, because I'm against this action. I am very happy, as an artist, that finally artists were given the opportunity to help them in some way, which is statusually to isolate, which is social, but simply, I think that in the next period of implementation of this action the choice would have to be fairer, and this action would be similar and useful. I'm just going to say, to see that all of this is like I said, that we have artists who are in the seventh, eighth and ninth decades of life, who, ever since they went into administrative retirement, have done nothing, have done little, or have, those who have the strength, still stayed working, who receive average or below the average pension, and have made a very large contribution to our national culture. The priority had to be given to these people and had to be taken care of. Just one more example, and I'm done, since I'm running out of time. We have a very educated artist, who, undeniably, made a big contribution to our national culture, Mrs Dubravka Nesovic, who had to enter this list for the national pensions. He lives in a nursing home, out of a pension of 17,000, and he's supposed to pay 25 grand a month for a nursing home. They're threatening to kick her out of the nursing home on February 15th. I don't need to explain, especially to older generations, who Mrs Dubravka Nesovic is. I'm just gonna say that she's graduated, she's been on board with her parents' actors since third year, she's won a lot of awards, she's held over three thousand humanitarian concerts. I can't find any artists today who held so many humanitarian concerts. She graduated, and she's the only master of music, and she hasn't been on the national pension list. Through the prism of Mrs Dubravka Nesovic, I said there are a large number of artists who did not receive a national pension this year. There are not only musicians, but also painters, knights, actors, directors, writers, translators, who, with no concern, are not found in a priority group that should take this flattering status title to obtain national pensions. Just in the end to say that we all have to think hard, that it's the easiest thing to forget people. Don't let people remember us for nothing. It's much better to be remembered for the good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14607	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Lidija Vukicevic. The word has been made by the MP Dr Vladan Batic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14608	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if we look at the term 'NIP' in Semantically, it seems to me that, within that plan, the biggest investments should be in those parts of Serbia that are the most vulnerable. One of Serbia's most endangered parts is just south of Serbia, and that part of Serbia bordering Kosovo and Metohija, above all, the territory of the Kursumli municipality. Instead of investing there, instead of those at the head of state institutions, who, of course, work on KIM, such as the KIM Museum, the KIM Library, the PIO KIM Fund, the KIM Agency of Revenue, if they can't function on the KIM sites, are being moved to the territory of the Kursumli municipality, to work and build there, invest from the NIP, none of it. I suggested that one of the government's sessions, just to show that Serbia cares about that part of its territory, be held in Kursumlia. Of course, none of that. Of course it's not worth telling big stories about Kim when she's not even worried about Kursumlia. He doesn't care about the spares, who strike tomorrow for a hundred days. It seems these people are in vain, docks, doing it out of anger, whims. No, it's because life is the law, because they should live too. Life is a law for them and for those oppressed, unhappy, disappointed people. If there was a different archaic, here's one proposal for execution two days ago. Some people charge for what they're looking for. A few days ago, the District Court in Kursumlia, this is a question for Dusan Petrovic, confirmed the court's verdict in Kursumlia, which requires one of the reserves, when the interest is calculated, to charge about a million dinars. Everybody's acting crazy. We're playing deaf phones. These people have been protesting for a hundred days. I've had contact with them for about 30 days. So no one manipulates them, they seek their rights, and it's no longer just the Warm District, it's both Jablanic, and the Pcinian County, and Nis, it's spreading, because these people are not treated at the level of respect for their dignity, their honor, their reputation. You don't talk to them. Except for Mr. Rasim Ljajic, no one has shown enough concern and responsibility to talk to them, but the bottom just denies what they are looking for. I again appeal to Dusan Petrovic and Vid Petrovic-Škero, and to Mr Sutanovac, and to President Tadic, whom I addressed on their behalf twice, and to the Chief of Staff, Mr Ponoš, because they are his soldiers, not ex, but perhaps, and since this matter is taken seriously into consideration. They don't make megalomaniac, astronomical demands. It doesn't have to be a parameter of what comes from these judgments, but these people have to be respected, their dignity must be respected, because life is the law. A few days ago, from this pay phone, I put out the attitude of the Iron Union, rather, that union that has a symbolic name - the SRP - the union labour movement. So, I didn't improvise anything, they sent this memo to all the parliamentary groups, talking about what's going on in "Zelvos", and in a way also in the framework of the Serbian railway. I guess the story of the railways, which we've paved here, is also something that should be covered by the National Investment Programme. We have the slowest railways in Europe, slower than when the first trains began to pass through Serbia. They're not railways anymore, they're railway museums. Here's a story about that, followed by representatives of the three other unions, claiming I'm false. I repeat, I have only read what has been delivered to all parliamentary groups by the Syndicate Workers' Movement. Now there are representatives of the other three unions, who deny it and who apparently wrote this to someone else. There are more JUL directors in the Railways, because this is very much what I'm associated with on that vocabulary, that jargon, that dictionary, that sentence structure. They even find that I support bankruptcy, that I join the tycoons, and as DHSS MP, I, as well as the LDP Parliament Club, are the only one in this assembly to raise our voice against the tycoon, regardless of what they are called, (I apologize, representatives of another parliamentary club; Zeljko Vasiljevic is waving at me), that bankruptcy workers will lose their guaranteed right to work, that the existence of 1,700 families is deliberately jeopardising and contesting the factory's chance to enter the EU market. Gentlemen, since it's so qualified, then I'm a little bit interested, and now I'm responsible for saying that what's going on in Iron Man is pure crime and that crime is why certain criminal charges should be filed. For now, I will remain on one small question – how did the Railway for the reconstruction of railway vanes pay 1,000,325,294 dinars, and "Zelvos" for that period, in 2005 and 2006, submit a request for payment of 570 million dinars? Where's 800 million dinars? Where's 10 million? Is this part of the Želturist, because workers don't get paid taxes and contributions, but they're paid to fly, to winter, to be recruited through the Želturist, and you know who's the boss of the Želturist, so let's see, of these 10 million, who's been here, who bought the jeeps, who's got luxury apartments in downtown Belgrade, let's see what's really going on here?- I'm sorry. This topic, when the relevant documents arrive, in an hour or two, I will speak more extensively, because this is a story to which both the Government and the Prosecutor's Office should deal with, and not to hide those who abuse their functions in public enterprises and rob Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14609	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, also, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14610	Dear Mr. Minister, I wanted to resort to Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic's exposure when it comes to national pensions. You know what, that's where we can't go back to a time of folk artists and move the issue of the position of prominent people, in the set, to the state. You're certainly right about the name you mentioned, because there are a lot of well-deserved people in art, in science, waiting for that pension without enough means to live and, indeed, living under very difficult circumstances. I understand what you're saying, but I'd like to suggest to Mr. Secretary that we try to initiate a little bit that people who are famous, who have a lot of money, who have earned in this transition, return to the Serbian tradition. Look at Kolarce's task, the people who once acquired in Serbia, had a tendency to make foundations and show their civic values, to return something to that society. The solution is that all these singers, actors (if you, Mrs. Vukicevic, are making plays now), work for free, for retired actors, who live with 10, 15,000 dinars per month, who are our best actors, but have nothing to live on. So, if they're doing free shows, they're giving up their fees to give older colleagues what to live on. Can't one of these people who in these 20 years, the Milosevic period and the period now, get that wealth, that is, can't we motivate people, singers who make a lot of money, call them and say, where your civic virtue is, do you help those who are cancer patients, do you help women who are suffering from breast cancer, do you help some special national group, because these are the circumstances, or are we going to transfer everyone to the state budget? There's no incentive if we don't tell people they won't pay taxes if they give money to the foundation to help a group. It's the freedom of people who have money. Not the state, when he's taken away from him for tax, that he gives it wherever she wants, but he's going to say where he's going to go and he's not going to hide what he paid the tax. We don't know how much the richest people pay taxes, it's the biggest state secret, we don't know if they pay that tax at all, or whether they avoid paying taxes, or just us paying taxes, so there's no employment, because every employee has 73% to pay. Let's see, from people who have money, who make legal money, how much who paid the tax. There's a lot of Sorosch in here. Well, when you pay 300 million dollars to the state of taxes, I guess you have the right to direct that tax towards free will and say, "I'll give it to children without parental ageing, I'll give it to the other actors." Why should the state have a team? Are we going back to state socialism? Please, Mr. Minister, there's no such thing in the legislation, such support for people, and that's affirmation and wealth, and citizens, and its intensities, and famous people, that they're really making these foundations, that they say it publicly, that it's tax-free, that they don't pay taxes, and that the citizens who need it ourselves, and not just the state, because we're never going to name enough. You're right, I'm sure someone will stay out. You, perhaps, are some of your supporters of the Radical Party now, now I'd like some other actors. I understand the principle, but let's really show that we're in a new age, that we can't transfer everything to the state, so we say - the state budget is big. It's not in any law, the tax is completely unsettled, it's hiding, it's stealing, there's no paying taxes. Please encourage people to give part of the foundation tax and help a series of cases like this that ask for help.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14611	Replica, Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14612	I agree that everything should not be burdened by the state and that the state, absolutely, will not be able to meet the needs of all those who have applied now and who will apply. So I can't help but support what you said - that foundations should be set up to help not only artists, but also others. Yesterday we were able to see in the news that there was only one house in Belgrade for the unsettled, one building was designated for people without a roof over their heads, which is unacceptable and which is terrible. The largest number is being collected right now that the temperatures are below zero. So, not just for artists. I agree that taxes should be paid, that we should take care of our fellow citizens, of Serbian citizens who do not have the means to live. My exposure went in that direction, if it had already started in this action, if it had already been completed, that it should be done properly, and that means – clearly defined criteria. By the way, I agree there's a need to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14613	I thank Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14614	Very short. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Media of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, I want to say that it's a good thing that the state got the strength to 258, it seems to me that so many, well-deserved artists from different areas are getting this, I wouldn't say pension, it's simply one support for the development of the art of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I don't think it's easy to measure what's in it and there'll always be injustice when it's done, etc. Personally, I have a basic confidence in the commission that did this, but I would like, as a member of the Committee on Culture, to have one session at which we will get information about it, because what Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic was talking about here, our distinguished colleague, simply, is not possible, namely, that in these 258 people is not Dubravka Nesovic. That's not possible. So there may be various combinations, but that's not possible. We'll get some information on that. As to whether the state can stand to do this, it's a matter of the concept of the state. I recall that after 1948, the city's secretary for culture in Belgrade was, as was said then, a friend of Slavka Vesenov, who in three years shared 58 studios of different artists, not all painters and vatars, but from other areas, or apartments, etc., that among those who got these premises there was also one denudent, who was today a respected Serbian academic who charged it with a three-bedroom apartment at the time. There's a heavy TV drama about it, which was shot a few years ago. Thus, the state is defined in terms of what it has and what it has in mind for the future. Among these 258 people on the list are a few, and that's what I'm saying, which have been models of different products over the past few years, on the busiest television and other media, where, I don't know exactly how much tax is paid. But it doesn't interfere with this whole concept. Whether or not someone is going to go into employment, it is a question of his understanding and his relationship with public, cultural, and other social needs, and if the state is to stimulate employment by reducing taxes, I am against, because it is better for the state to collect taxes, so that the competent institutions will then make that income, public income, deploy to eight million full-year citizens of this country, etc. We live in a strange time. Several of our ministers publicly show revenue worth tens of millions of euros, and we do not know how they earned it and how much tax they paid. Some of these ministers came here a few years ago as completely anonymous citizens, today they have enormous financial resources. Several times, the so-called synthetic tax, cross-breeding, to say the jargon, was tried to get information about how much money was made in Serbia and how. That's where he cares. It happened when there was the first important politician who couldn't prove it, because his annual income was two million dinars, and finally in various banks several million euros, or his property was several million euros. This is a complex problem. The city of Belgrade has its own relationship with this problem, and I want to leverage the powers that Comrade Gorica Mojovic has in this area, because Comrade Gorica Mojovic has been an uncut man in the area of culture budgets for more than 40 years. So, at the time of the Socialist Union, at the time of the City Committee, at the time of the Central Committee, she was always in the rank of the City Minister, as the Executive Secretary for Culture, etc. She's doing it today. It cannot be replaced by a minister of culture of the Republic of Serbia, nor is it normal for that influence, meaning, those persons, cultural events, cultural politics and these solutions, to be such that it is at a higher rank than those of Serbia's state. I would ask that this issue be given the opportunity to declare members of the Committee on Culture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say once again, it's a good thing this is about to happen, that the one who wanted to do something has always been wrong, but I hope the mistakes weren't malicious, that there weren't any inappropriate personalities. I'm very interested, not only Mrs Dubravka Nesovic, but several other people who have a few decades to live, not to say how many, because that education requires, and I'm talking about ladies who haven't found themselves on this list, and they've found faces who are 60 years old. So let's get this out of the way. The National Assembly has no jurisdiction, but has the right to a public word, has the right to public influence. I think it's possible that these things are regulated in a better way and there's been another injustice here, since this was restricted by the average pension to some level, so those who had one dinar under that pension couldn't compete. So it's possible that someone, for example, who had 20 grand, stayed below the line, and whoever had 19,000 now has 70,000 per month. It's very delicate. I hope we can discuss this properly. This thing needs to be resolved systemically. I'm against the ad hoc commission. I advocate doing it in a different way and establishing the term "deserved artist," which will then mean what needs to be done. I apologize for the comparison, it may bother some, but sometimes the Soviet Union, or some other state, had this calling for athletes, artists, other exposed people in public life, where it was known, when you're a "deserved athlete" or "deserved artist," which means while you're alive. So if power changes, it can happen that some new commission says – Janko Jankovic no longer has the right to do so. That's not good, we can't play with people that way. In any case, I am pleased that a number of artists solved this issue in this way, it seriousises the relationship to culture, to public works. We'd like that fund to be made differently, which is what the distinguished colleague Vesna Pesic was talking about, but that simply isn't possible. So it's possible when someone wants to do it alone, but if the state needs to give up taxes to make a loan, then that means someone with state money is good. That's not good. So the state needs to collect public revenue and schedule it, then it'll be fairer, the state takes care of the whole problem. Otherwise, this will solve every government the way she thinks it's politically profitable, and that's not good. I call on all MPs to participate in the session of the Committee on Culture when this is a topic, to discuss criteria, to discuss personalities. I know this recording procedure has been very painful. I was in the Ministry of Culture when two people, who I thought I'd never be able to say hello to in my life, came by the porter's desk to apply for a national pension. That's not good. This should be resolved in another way and I hope that we will and that we have the consent of all political parties, but also that we have criteria that are absolutely clear. Otherwise, you might understand, I don't want to say that it is, that this is also part of a promotional campaign, which has other tasks, and then it comes out of the sphere of honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14615	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Lidija Vukicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14616	I'd just like to say something, as well as be my colleague's answer. Therefore, it is impossible to say that someone is on the national pension list because they are from that party if there are clearly defined criteria, which is the obligation of the state, so if there are clearly certain criteria. In this case, it had to be done by the government as a donor, as a funder of this entire action, if I could call her that. Then there's not much thinking to say – here, they've received some radicals, or DS, G17, etc. It doesn't exist. In this situation, it shouldn't be a definition of which party and whether it will be this much from this party, this much from that party... That's not a question if there's anything to be determined by. In this situation, we didn't have absolutely, according to which to wave and determine who to get a pension, and who not, because there were no clear criteria. However, I find it very interesting that you have now mentioned Mrs. Gorica Mojovic, who has been participating in budget allocations for years, since she was on the committee with my father until today. I must say that Mrs. Gorica Mojovic is not the right person and is not the person who should be involved in these things, at least not anymore. She's done enough, we've seen how she did it. I am witnessing that one company, or one cultural institution, like the Children's Cultural Centre, has worked for years without systematizing work, without individual collective contract, without many accompanying things that she had to, as a Children's Cultural Centre, to have. The moment someone came in and introduced order, followed the law, followed the laws on working relationships, so they introduced eight hours of working time, which wasn't supposed to be introduced, but was something that was meant to be, that you couldn't do half an hour, so you could go home, and then you could come back and say, well, now I'm going to be eskicipating English, it doesn't matter... So when you introduce a collective, which has acquired bad habits, in order, then you're credited and written in the papers, specifically, in the list of "Politicals," to introduce repressive measures. So the repressive measures are then the pandemic of law enforcement. I don't think that's right and we're slaves to the law to be free. That's only true, so I agree that Mrs Mojovic, I have nothing personal against her, but from my experience, as much as I've had contact with her, and I've been working really, really able to look for, maybe, some other job, where she won't be able to decide on the budget, because I'm sure she can't do it fairly and properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14617	Thank you. In addition, Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly, also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14618	Mr. President, you're not in progress, because this story has been going on for more than half an hour. Namely, I have to tell you that I went out for an art class. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, as well as to request a notice from you. I don't see Vesna Pesic in the O.R. anymore. First, I must thank my colleague Vukicevic, who for the first time in the Serbian Parliament, after 17 years, as an artist and as a woman who, with all her heart, as Toma is fighting for Serbia, is fighting for her profession, raised the question of people who have made an immeasurable contribution to our culture and art. I wouldn't have called at all if she hadn't mentioned the case of distinguished Professor Dubravka Nesovic and her more than tragic situation. She has a 17-year pension, as you said, co-worker, 18,000 dinars. I am, like her former student and associate member of the choir she led at the time when she organized the event "The Great School Hour" in Kragujevac, proud of that period of our lives, that we had her, as members of the choir, which she conducted and taught us a lot of things, not only from that area, but also about the conduct and devotion of her country and her people, because the woman of her life worked for her nation. Vesna Pesic, in a comfortable, failed political enthusiasm, has been like this since the beginning and since the founding, because her party never went to the polls on its own, she has always been on the back of someone, can also talk about selecting people from the fields of culture and art by political parties, because it is the same as those from DS, Gorica Mojovic, who have been doing it since 2000. But here, counterpart Vukicevic raised a question concerning not only Belgrade, because there is not only Belgrade, as our capital, cultural historical heritage, but also other cities in Serbia. I have to remind you of that, and this colleague Lydia knows, that the Commission, with its work, which was more than biased, was not objective, which did not take into account the social aspects, nor did this contribution, grant a national pension to any artist from Kragujevac, and we have the first Serbian theatre, which marked the jubilee of last year, the Joachim Vujic Theatre, that I am not talking about a pear, crow, or pleasure theatre, etc. So, the concentration of political and financial power, in this case, goes directly across Gorica Mojovic, who is used to that committed by you. Unlike her, your father, colleague Vukicevic, was an honorable man and believed in these ideals, was an MP once, a delegate and in this assembly. You know, when someone gets used to it, and she, and Vesna Pesic, and that whole clan, so they manage people's fates, then we don't have to wonder at all why we've come here, and why, especially people in smaller communities, they have to fight for their rights, and how great artists and people who make a great contribution to the development of our culture, above all, are fostering the Serbian cultural and historical heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14619	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I remind you, according to Article 152, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, can set the days for voting on the draft budget bill during the session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded on the principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I set as the day for voting on the draft law on Serbia's 2008 budget tomorrow, so Friday, December 21st, 2007, beginning at 12 p.m. Now we're gonna take a break. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14620	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Vlado Sekulić, Dusan Stupar, Dragan Colić, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Miličković, Stefan Zankov, Igor Bečić, Zdravko Topalović, Zoran Despotović, Saša Valjarević, Milorad Buha, Nebojša Stefanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Bojan Ristić, Bojan Milovanovic, Milan Nikolic, Željko Vasiljevic, Miletić, Mihajlović, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and Rajko Baralić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Jorganka Tabakovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14621	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, as regards the subject matter of privatisation. Therefore, Article 1 of the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed that State capital as shown in shares or shares should the terms and procedures of the sale of that capital are not governed by a special regulation, and that the subject of privatisation is considered both capital and property in the social enterprises of those undertakings that are from the former republics of the SFRY. After this position 4, I propose, by my amendment, the addition of Article 5, which says: "In accordance with the provisions of this law, capital and property are privatised both in representations, business units and businesses abroad established by social enterprises in accordance with the Foreign Trade Act ("SFRJ Official Journal"), no. 63/89) and on the basis of the records of the Federal Authority of the Authority responsible for matters of economic relations with abroad, i.e. the Republic Authority in whose jurisdiction these transactions are. The minister responsible for privatisation operations will prescribe closer conditions for the establishment of representations, business units and branches abroad, which, on the basis of fictitious documentation, have been transferred to individuals after 1 January 1992 and in order to avoid sanctions from the international community." Perhaps you can see from this last sentence why I submitted this amendment. In the 1990s, under the Foreign Trade Act, which I cited in the amendment, it was possible to establish representations and business units of existing social enterprises. It was not only foreign trade companies, for the sake of spreading and winning markets and better promotions of their businesses, but it was also fashion and practice that all more serious businesses do such a thing. Regardless of the fact that these parts of the company had no legal personality in our legislation, in the sense of our legislation, they had to be established there in accordance with the applicable regulations in the country in which they were established and, as such, maintained their relationship with the underlying capital in the state, then Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia. When civil war sanctions took place in Yugoslavia, many of the resourceful companies, directors of resourceful enterprises, were transferred by means of fictitious contracts to their relatives, friends, or people who worked in these offices. A good part of the property, something called brand, law, business connections, you know, that exclusive information, which is why I called Mr. Djelic here on the basis of a no-competitive clause, when he used classified information for personal purposes, was then almost legally used, so that many individuals from these and such companies today appear as powerful men, large owners of capital, property, and our future. Everyone, as a purpose, forgot that one part of social and state property, literally, was left out at that moment, out of necessity, and then no one wanted to question it anymore. The amendment doesn't need to express some kind of political attitude. This is an amendment that is a real need right now, and I think this is the final moment, since time limits the completion of the privatisation process, to determine this part. What I was particularly handling, and I was looking forward to proposing such an amendment, is that at the head of the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation, precisely, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, who was at the National Bank and who is now uniting the affairs of economic relations with abroad, which, at the time, and according to this first law, when these representations were established, were in the jurisdiction of the ministry. So, records, data, all reconstructions necessary to determine which legal persons had such representations are within one man's jurisdiction. At the time, the National Bank had records of it, since the law meant that when companies set up such a part, they would be registered with the Ministry of Economic Relations. I don't want to be maligned and that's how you understand me, but I hope doing power over a period of seven years has been enough to teach what is unknown. The Libyan check, after five October changes in 2000, was made by the Serbian government instead of the National Bank, which was a fruit of ignorance for the people who took power, which Dragan Todorovic, as a member of the federal parliament, then asked a parliamentary question and received an answer. So, if you didn't know when you were taking over the exercise of power, so the check, which, by nature of things and by basic theory, is realized in the National Bank, was realised in the Government, and you showed it, during the exercise of this power, you had enough experience and knowledge that this part of the requirement that I make and implement. What worries me a little is that they accuse you of, with one such search for money, which is unwarranted, strange channels, but never without trace, coming out of the country, you failed to recover it. I believe in your ambition, your endurance and your good intentions to implement this amendment. I would just like to ask you, Mr. Minister, that when you bring this sublegal act, because I am convinced that you will accept this, you are not asking Vesna Djindjic for advice, because what embarrasses the state of Serbia, the government, the privatisation process, the Agency, is the last case with Belgrade's Robing Houses. This paper, this urn, which I went out with, speaks of that when people warn you that you are selling property that is not the property of the slave house company, it is partly private, and part of the property of the state of Serbia, Mrs. Djindjic signs an answer in which she says - the immovable property of a creditor is not sold, but rather the shares. Mrs. Vesna Djindjic has also signed the paper on which she continues, leaving the house where she is headed, where she is said to be – the subject of the sale is a bankruptcy debtor as a legal person, and the most significant property of the property of the sale is immobilities, precisely those which are said not to be sold. So, if Mr. Cvetkovic thinks he's showing success in his ministry by methodologically using it to spend, or consumption, not to count on debt payments, which was changed in early 2005, don't make us look methodological, termological or any other reasons, not to tell the jokes, make sure things don't stand the way they are. So, economic logic, a healthy logic of people who think about their country, requires that at the last minute try to re-establish the return of property that is social and state and for which you, undisputedly, have data in the authorities of the administration and the Ministry of which you are headed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14622	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 3. The law on privatisation that is changing and which is, right now, the subject of this conversation. The amendment was submitted to Article 3 by Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, and we believe that the amendment is meaningful and that it should be accepted. I wouldn't explain it any further. Article 3 The Privatisation Act is an important member, as it speaks of the subject of privatisation, and for the SPS, when it comes to these amendments and the additions of the Law, it is an important member, as well as those who speak about the deadline and what after the deadline. Furthermore, those who talk about the subject of the sale, about the contract, the content of the contract, what it should contain, and, of course, those who talk about reasons for the termination of the contract, and I singled out only those five categories. When it comes to this article 3, which speaks of the subject of privatisation, I want to take this opportunity and give Minister Dinkic the opportunity to give answers. What's this about? The government is creating a legal basis for the implementation of the privatisation and state capital procedure, expressed in actions and stakes, which has not been the case so far. In addition, the member allows the privatisation of capital and property in social enterprises founded by parts of the company in the Republic of Serbia, which is based on the territory of the republic of the former SFRY. That's exactly what Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic submitted the amendment she was talking about. I would like to ask Mr. Minister, what about the initiative, the proposal, the request of the Governing Board of the Republic Fund PIO, who has requested amendments to the Privatisation Act, the part relating to Article 70 which says that the actions of the PIO Fund have an Action Fund, which is one side. In particular, the PIO Management Board has asked to protect, preserve the assets of the PIO Fund, even as far as we are informed, water and judicial proceedings are concerned. What's this about? Since it is the property of the Republic Fund of PIO, whether it falls under this article, given that there is talk here about what is the subject of privatisation, as well as the change of Article 55. The privatisation law that gives the government the chance to do that? It is the property of the Republic Fund PIO, which has been acquired truly and exclusively from the financing of the Republic Fund PIO. Those funds are huge. The Republic Fund PIO, or its previous legal predecessors, according to a policy that was, has invested most of the resources available, according to the data available to us, in the construction of 28 rehabilitation facilities throughout Serbia. I will mention only one number here, and these are the institutions in Vrnjačka Banja, Jozansko Banja, Gamzigradska Banja, Ribarska Banja, Banja Koviljača, Sijarinska, Kursumlijska, Bujanovska Banja, Niško, Novopazarska, Sokobanja, Ivanjica, Mataruška Banja, Vranjska Banja, and not to list anymore. So, what's the point of the question? The main question, Mr Minister, is that this Article 3 provides that the subject of privatisation is social, i.e. state capital in enterprises and other legal persons, but that Article 21, which amends Article 55, continues to treat the assets of the PIO Fund, as well as its legal predecessors, which are invested in the construction of those immovableities, is a social asset, although these funds are neither State nor social at that time, but are already in the case of the assets of the insurance companies that have been blended into the Republic PIO Fund, which, during certain times when it has been available to surpluses, has been placed by investing them in the construction of these facilities. I would like to remind you that the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 1995, establishing a state property, whose title is the Republic of Serbia, is prescribed to exempt social security funds from the regime, therefore, and from the Republic of PIO staff. I would ask the public to clarify this situation with the assets of the Republic Fund PIO and whether it falls under this law, or Article 3 of this Law, the fate of this property, whether it will be returned, because it is obvious that subsequent amendments to the Law create a legal possibility for privatisation and these rehabilitation institutions and these assets which I repeat are built exclusively by means of the PIO Fund. I repeat, even judicial proceedings have been carried out in terms of the return of that property. A very important issue is the subject of privatisation for the whole process that is taking place. I call on Mr. Minister to explain this situation, especially to say what will happen to the assets of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. As for us, the SPS Parliamentary Group, we believe this should remain owned by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14624	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14625	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, within the framework of the Bill's proposal, in Article 1, the Proposer proposes: "After the position of Article 3, which becomes position 4, paragraph 5 is added, which reads: "In accordance with the provisions of this law capital and property is privatised in social enterprises established by parts of the company in the Republic of Serbia whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of the former SFRY". Namely, this is about privatising parts of the company, or all of the companies, which are in a period of breaking up, or the successions of our former Yugoslav state, remained in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and had a different fate. However, when we talk about these companies, their organisations, we must remember in 1991, a government regulation from that period that protected property located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All these assets were placed under special protection by the Republic of Serbia, and all the provisions of that regulation concerned that property that was in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is important to mention, it is that we very little talk about the property of our companies that remained on the premises of the former Yugoslav states. I must mention, in particular, the property of large systems from the Republic of Serbia that remained in the Republic of Croatia. We must mention the property of the oil industry of Serbia and the huge wealth that remained there. The NIS, according to accounting data, had 30 petrol stations in Croatia, eight resorts, numerous warehouses, and then, the participation of the Republic of Serbia in a joint programme of the Yugoslav pipeline, which today, with interest and participation in total capital, can be measured by hundreds of millions of euros. Then, we have power plants of Yugoslav importance, what today should belong to the EPS, then, 'Genexa' facilities, 'Centertextile', the pension fund of the Republic of Serbia, which had more resorts and various other facilities. In addition, we have about 319 facilities owned by Serbian companies, primarily business, industrial, tourist, catering. We're not talking about the value of this property today. We, in the context of a conflict agreement, which has been signed and ratified by all former Yugoslav states, have to sit down and talk, make a partial balance. But within the framework of this denominations balance, we also need to talk about the assets of natural persons who have left the premises of the former Yugoslav states. Here I have to accept a special problem of refugees from the Republic of Croatia, who have left enormous property – houses, estates, gardens, industrial facilities, business facilities, etc., and acquired rights of Serbs, who have achieved this in the Republic of Croatia. It's about billions of euros. That's not what we're talking about. This government has at no time, at least in public, brought out information to discuss this. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has data that it is a total value, I am talking about natural persons, moving around 30 billion euros. In addition, we constantly point out to the government of the Republic of Serbia that we have rights, under international law, international agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, on a fair compensation for all the damaged, seized, burned property, as well as acquired rights, which we also need to discuss. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia has no understanding. We, with dozens, may have, and hundreds of memos, informed them of the problems of the Krajisnik Serbs, of the property, of the moving and immovable, of the rights acquired, but there is no answer. What's more, there's no physical return. So, it's about private property, the acquired rights of Serbs, what is internationally unimpeached, what needs to be discussed, and this country has taken on this obligation by many agreements and by many laws. I will mention the Refugees Act, which has made the Republic of Serbia a commitment to resolve the issue of individual and collective rights of Serbs from the Republic of Croatia in talks and agreements and direct contacts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but there is no movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14626	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word about this amendment? Here you go. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14627	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, Mr Dinkic, I must say, in principle, your colleague, Mr Djelic, surprised me in the debate, so he fanatically defended you. I know you haven't exactly been in some great relationship, but I have to admit - you're quite calm today and you're reacting peacefully. He was fanatically defending you, which, perhaps, is for your praise. I have a difficult task, at the moment the chairman is the gentleman who defends your character and Sunday to the limits of fanaticism. But let's get back to the amendment. My esteemed colleague, Mr Krasic, has submitted an amendment to delete Article 2. For what? Here, in Article 2, I will read the Agency's competences: "A privatisation agency is a legal entity, which sells capital, i.e. property and promotions and initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process in accordance with the law." You add another jurisdiction here, which is: "as well as the affairs of the liquidator, directly or through the authorised person (the trustee of the Agency), in accordance with this law". It's not good, Mr. Dinkic, that the Agency has absolute and only control throughout the privatisation process. This opens up the possibilities of many malfeasances. You know, there's only one way to control it, and secondly, you've been so committed to the transparency of your time, with Mr. Milivojevic and the rest of the resistance. The worst solution is that the Agency now has the ability to empower a person as a liquidator. So, by all means, and by choice. You'll admit it's highly illogical that liquidation, unlike bankruptcy, does not have to be conducted by a court procedure. Then what's the trade court for? Read this amendment well, consider it, it refers to deleting Article 2. I have to say that the whole article 5, too, dude, which is provided for this Article 2, wasn't well written and you should have done much more on it, that some of the provisions in it, in particular, some of the Agency's competences were transferred to both the Trade Court and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14628	Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14629	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, due to the citizens of Kragujevac, above all, but also to all others living in cities where they are former, I hope, and potential autosellers of Zastava, I must ask Mr Dinkic, the minister of which is the resor, above all, to worry about the remaining systems which, under the leadership of Aleksandr Vlahovic, Bozidar Djelic and the unfortunate Minister of Labour, Boraric and Social Affairs, and the false unionist, Dragan Milovanovic, experienced the fate they experienced in 2001, when starting the privatisation and restructuring process, i.e. as it is more correct to say in Serbian, restructuring of enterprises that the state should be concerned, systems that should be privatised. Mr Dinkic, how is it that the Zastava car factory, as agreed, does not enter the privatisation process by the end of this year, or that there is no tender for the car factory, which you probably think, like the other ministers in the government, those in the DS, there is no future? Unlike you, I don't think so. In fact, some fellow MPs, who are from other cities, will say, and this has happened to me on TV shows, how illusory it is to think about rebuilding the automotive industry in Serbia in a situation where we are overwhelmed by the import of foreign cars, that there is no way, why we are, at all, ensuing in this idea. The reality is, however, different. This is not about the project, and therefore it is necessary that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it will not do, but that is why Tomislav Nikolic, with all his heart, will, when elected president of the Republic, influence the finding of the most favourable solution to the flag. Here's the problem, Mr. Dinkic, that you haven't found a strategic partner in seven years. Then last year, as someone who allegedly doesn't have language hair, so you don't care, you don't have a constituency there, you haven't even passed the censorship in the local elections, you said – I'm the one who's going to announce that they can't live on the backs of the people, workers of the flag, employment and education, which you didn't even educate or hire. Then he'll give them, in a deal with you, that severance package, and what about the factory? The point is that experts, first of all, must point out that the people of the regional Chamber of Commerce of Kragujevac, and business management, in particular, part of the business management of the car factory, have calculated precisely that the Serbian market can absorb 60,000 new cars annually. In the present situation, when everything is considered, therefore, how many foreign producers' representatives, companies around the world, have, taking into account our environment, above all, the Romanian production of 'logans', which in this part of Europe and the Balkans is the biggest competition 'Stava', when considering the production of 'Fiat' model, which is now called'marea', which is now different, the one that has been restored in Turkey, and when considering that 'Stava', so decompose, but with the car production line, should be the basis for any factory in the world, then it is necessary to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, if you have noticed, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is not advertised on this issue. Of those Bubal statements from the beginning of this year and the dismissal of workers of the WHO, no one spoke openly about when and how privatisation will be carried out and whether you have in mind or lobby for a strategic partnership. That's why you're in charge, Mr. Dinkic, to tell us how you think to handle it? So, there are more potential partners in the game to buy the flag, but you need to know that we will reach the world market a higher price only in case the promised money arrives. You will say, I don't care, but you were the finance minister back then. So, on 19 May 2006, in the Hall of the City of Kragujevac, you gave a speech before the management and representatives of the Syndicate and you personally promised them, Mr Dinkic, that the Zastava will receive another 15,000,000 aid for the restoration of production capacities, and at this point it takes about 20,000,000 euros for the laundromat. I apologize to the flag experts if I don't speak, as they say, in a million precisely, but about that much. So, the only chance is given this trial contract with Opel, about "Astra Classic," which is sold through the brand-new house dealership, to compete with either the General Motors or any other major manufacturer with a line to produce any other car. If possible, and cannot be done without the help of the Government, a line for the production of any car, where it will change, as the new time is coming, the look itself, etc., as the manufacturer or the one who designs the new car requires, if we succeed, or if the state helps in such a way, not only that the automotive industry will have a future, but also a complete belt around the car factory, and that is a large area, above all, due to the braunfield investment to start those plants that have not been used so far. So these are all the expert analyses that people did, first of all, from the Chamber of Commerce, but also from the car factory. The government has to come up with a proposal by the end of the year on what it thinks. A financial injection is necessary to end this properly, because in this case not only would the town of Kragujevac be raised on its feet, but all the cooperatives who need to do business and continue to work with these components related to the 'flag 10' would, therefore, be motivated to continue their co-operation, above all, to find solutions for those who do not respect the contract already signed. We now have a problem, we are talking about the conclusion of flag 10 in Kragujevac, because of the fact that in the privatisation process, some, the government is known to tycoons, but not so public, it's not exactly someone like Janjusevic, Kolesar or Dragan Gilas...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14630	Miss Jovanovic, please take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14631	I'm taking care of it, Mr. Albianic, but you need to make sure that you don't interrupt me in a situation where I'm talking about people who have lost their jobs and when I open one problem, which I'm the minister knows, as well as all of Serbia, that it's big and that it needs to be solved by the next government. It's easy for you, Mr. Albianic. You've come from your city, you've been educated, you've stayed to live in Belgrade. I was born, where the future president of Serbia began the campaign, on Monday, 24. 12 p.m., Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who was also born there and, I'm sure, the workers have confidence and hope that he will influence, from the position of Serbian President...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14632	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14633	He says, "With this in mind, I would like to inform you that as a representative of the Government of the National Assembly, when considering this bill of law, Dr Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Trade and Services, has been designated." Where's your colleague Bubalo? Is he coming? I can't repeat all this. You remember well, then pass it on to him. So you're obliged to tell us whether, in that sense, you still have contact with the car factory management, whether you're familiar with all these problems and what you think about this and the only rational idea, which is that the production line is qualified for any buyer who will be able to make any car there. Before that, it is necessary, and how, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives additional funding. By selling buildings, buildings and all that Zastava has, they can't reach that magical sum of 20 million for Lakirnica, and another 10 is the least needed, so 30m euros. See what savings are possible in the budget. Only for the Export Promotion Agency is separated in the budget, a clean consumer item, for money laundering, 2.5m euros. And you had to bet that, before the tender is called, the flag gets that money. So we would be sure that the factory, the town of Kragujevac and the whole of Serbia and the automotive industry have a future as well. You can see that people are fighting. Someone thought it was a clean drug deal with selling "astra classics". You know, they were forced to do that, to attract a potential partner in this way, because no major producer in any group, especially General Motors, is going to come to our market if there are no cars that they produce, if they are not present on the market, because there are other components. I want to tell you that with these cooperatives who are obliged to produce components for flag 10 is a big problem. As far as tires are concerned, tire manufacturer for flag 10, we do not have them in Serbia, because no producer could meet the standards Fiat is looking for. It's a very complex problem that the government has to face. It's not something one man's fate depends on, it's hundreds of thousands of people. I ask you to answer, and I expect by the end of this debate, Mr Dinkic, that you will tell me what your intentions are and how is it possible that, in addition to all these appeals and your personal promise, above all, Predrag Bubal, he stood out in this, the 15m-euro still promised did not arrive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14634	Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14635	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to answer this question. A tender for the flag of cars will be announced by the end of this year, on December 27th, space has also been reserved in Financial Times and in domestic printed media. It is an international tender, it will take three months to express interest, and final bids will be delivered by the end of May next year. We're giving a slightly longer period to compensate potential candidates for what we're going to miss during New Year's and Christmas holidays. Since I took over the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, with my associates, I've done, both me and my associates, talks with serious car manufacturers on all continents. We expect this tender to be successful. We'll see who checks in, the market will show who's gonna be the best. Our decision is that next year, early in the year, we propose a new concept of Serbia's industrial development, which will include, among other things, specific incentive measures for three industrial branches. One of them will be the automotive industry, then, information and telecommunications equipment and electronics. These are three groups of industrial products for which we will propose specific incentive measures. Why the car industry? Because we already have a lot of components in Serbia, because we have a car industry with tradition, because we have a trained workforce for that industry, because many people can be employed in that industry. It is our decision that if we have more competitors in the flag tender, we offer to whoever loses the flag tender to build a new greenfield factory. Our goal is to complete the successful privatisation of the flag and, if we have more competition than the one needed for the flag, allow another car factory in Serbia, next to this one. As for the production lines currently working at the flag, one works completely, that's the one where the "full" is mounted, or "flag 10". The line is also being trained for the installation of "astre classic", and the third one is empty, waiting for the new buyer of the flag to decide what will be in the program. I believe that, by starting a tender for the flag, next year we will have a solution to the problem of the automotive industry in Serbia, especially given that more and more companies are coming and looking for incentives to build greenfield factories in the area of parts. It's natural to have complete car production, so we can hire all those co-operatives. What's very important is that in the next period, since we have good co-operation with the Russian Federation, we try to expand their product list, that even cars can be exported without customs duty to the Russian Federation, which is not the case now. Now we can export the parts, and that's a great benefit, but it would be good and we're trying to negotiate on that subject, so that the finished cars can be exported, because our market isn't big enough to have too many suppliers from the automotive industry, because we have as many residents as we have. But for more ambitious plans, it would be very good to get a duty-free car export to Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14636	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I'm a Kragujevchan, and I wish everything you've just said was true, and there's no truth in what Miss Jovanovic is saying. However, I do doubt that anyone will invest in the flag and Serbia, as a country that has no defined limit, which is fighting with neighbours and which every day threatens some new wars. The reason I answered the word was not because I wanted to get too involved in the discussion between Miss Jovanovic and Mr Dinkic, but because I wanted to, according to the article. In 225 and 226, I will inform the MPs and ask for an answer to the question I will now ask of the competent ministers who are not here right now. What I'm about to ask now has something to do with what I said. I've been contacted by our members from Batocina, who informed me that the payment ramp in Batocina has been closed, because there has been a terrible scandal today. The truck carrying the bombs dropped 18 crates of bombs, and the driver who was driving that truck didn't notice it at all. It's scary and it talks about how insecure we really are. What I'm asking this question is, where did these bombs go, what was the purpose of the bomb, who was responsible for the bombs falling out of that truck, or how were they packed in that truck? That means anyone who was on the highway the moment that truck passed was compromised. I ask the question - when will one of the ministers in charge, at this point we still don't know who it is, whether it's the minister of military, or the interior minister, come forward and explain the reason this scandal happened? I also ask the question - who will resign, and who will be left without a job because of this terrible scandal that has happened? However, I think the most important thing and the most important question – where these bombs are headed, which is their purpose, and I ask that the answer to this question be answered urgently. The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Military and MuP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14638	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few sentences about the amendment I submitted to Article 3, I would like to say something about the notice that the government delivered to us a few minutes ago, is the signator of that announcement by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Otherwise, the Government informs us that, when considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, a representative of the Government will also be Dr Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Trade and Services. This is another piece of evidence that the Serbian government is obviously playing with the National Assembly, that it absolutely does not respect the dignity of the legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. I can only express the surprise that the Serbian government has not sent to explain why amendments to the Law amending the Law on Privatisation, for example, Minister of Sport, or Minister of Agriculture, or Minister of State Administration and local self-government are not accepted. He would still be the best fit, as it is obvious that the Serbian government is protecting individual ministers from MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14640	Mr. Martinovic, don't underestimate Mr. Bubal, and the Serbian government respects the National Assembly, because it will be the minister at any time in the hall. Thank you and I now give you the time for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14641	Mr Albianic, you are clearly provoking me to point out that in a drastic way you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, I'll have an understanding, because you often do something, and you don't think much, so, here, I won't react to the Rules of Procedure right now, but I'm warning you, if you ever stop me in such a rude way again, you'll have a hearing on the Rules of Procedure until today is over. So, be still, do your job, and as far as I know, your job is not to be a wooden attorney for the government. If you're your minister's wooden lawyer and your MP's group, don't be the government's wooden lawyer, that's not what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chose you for. So it is really inadmissible for the Serbian government to protect individual ministers from MPs. It is obvious that the government wanted to protect, first of all, the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac, and here has appointed some trustees, people who sat or didn't even sit, and they had no right to discuss and report for the amendment of the MPs, and then subsequently appointed the Minister of State and Local Self-Government to explain here why the government does not accept certain amendments to the Law on the Ministry of Defence and the Law on Defence, and man has no idea what is written to him in the laws that come from his ministry, let alone what is written in the laws that come from the Ministry of Defence. Now we have the same situation again, that the Serbian Government, in addition to the Minister of Resorship, who was only invited to sit here and explain why the government does not accept the amendments of the MPs, also sends Dr Predrag Bubal, Minister of Trade and Services, and, as far as I know, this ministry has nothing to do with privatising social and state capital in the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that the Serbian government, in addition to Dragan Sutanovac, wants to protect Mladjan Dinkic from harsh criticism, of course, arguments, which will surely be sent to him by the MPs of the SRS. But here, it's good that the Serbian citizens are monitoring this transmission and they can see what kind of relationship the government has, so-called. The democratic government, according to the most democratic institution in the Republic of Serbia, is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it seems that the legislator of this law has not heard of one of the basic principles of criminal proceedings, which is that everyone is considered innocent until proven otherwise by a judicial verdict. It is one of the basic principles of democratic criminal law, it exists for centuries and has been incorporated into our Code of Criminal Procedure. It is obvious that whoever wrote the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Privatisation has not heard of this principle, and then those who have been convicted of a criminal offence and those against whom there is no judgment are then placed in the same basket, but only criminal proceedings are being conducted. Namely, in Article 3. Article 2(4) of the Law amending the Privatisation Act literally states this text: 'After point 3', point 4 is added, which reads as follows: 'a natural person who has been convicted or against whom the procedure for the next crimes is being conducted'. So the same plane is placed on the one who is convicted and the one against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. The SRS has repeatedly pointed to the fact that our legal system is beginning to suffer seriously from a legal and political disease called the tribunal. The issue is that The Hague tribunal is probably the only judicial institution in the world where the same sanctions are suffered and those against whom the proceedings are being conducted, and the best example for this is the SRS president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who has been in The Hague since February 2003. The trial began only a month ago, we do not know when it will end and, practically, Dr Vojislav Seselj has already begun to maintain the prison sentence, in the most inhumane way possible, and that his sentence has not yet been given, nor has he been proven guilty in a valid legal manner. Approximatelyly, the same principle is contained in the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation. It is indeed inadmissible to prevent individual individuals from taking part in the privatisation process of social or state capital, because criminal proceedings are being conducted against them. The main order is, the basic rule is that sanctions can only be endured by one who is truly guilty, and who is not, cannot know the minister, it should be determined by a court of law. I suggested in my amendment that Article 3 of Article 2 in point 4, "or who is being treated" should be deleted. I think it is in line with some basic constitutional principles and with the principles of criminal law. I am surprised that the Legislative Committee, when considering the legality of the Law amending the Law on Privatisation, did not conclude that such a provision in the Law on Privatisation did not comply with the Constitution. The constitutional principle is that one can only be held guilty if there is a judicial verdict against him. The legislative committee had to reach a conclusion on the view that such a provision in the privatisation law was not in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of criminal responsibility, I am interested, Mr. Minister, whether you are preparing a law, or perhaps it is written in the Privatisation Act, which will regulate the issue of criminal responsibility of those who, after 5 October 2000, with black socks on their heads, entered the Customs Administration, the NBJ, who founded crisis headquarters in public enterprises and institutions, who were harassing and robbing for several months, until the government of Zoran Djindjic was established in January 2001. Who will be responsible for a number of financial malfeasances, for machinations, for a number of crimes that were committed during that period, almost three months ago, and involving individual high-ranking officials, above all, DS and G17 Plus? I now expect Mr. Mica Albianic to say something on the subject, i.e. to prevent me from moving forward, since he obviously plays the role of his party chief, Mladjan Dinkic, here. Otherwise, I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that one of the basic points of the programme, Tomislav Nikolic, for the president of the Republic of Serbia, will be an unfettered fight against crime and corruption. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as Serbia's future president, will ask the judicial authorities, above all, to call on the harsh criminal and material responsibility of all those who have brutally robbed the state and citizens over the past seven years, and among these criminals and robbers there are many high-ranking DS officials and...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14642	Be careful, Mr. Martinovic, please, on the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14643	Tell me, Mr. Albianic, who I am a member of the Rules of Procedure has broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14644	I was afraid you were going to break the Rules of Procedure, so I warned you. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14645	This is a preventive apparition of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, it's your tradition. Some during World War II preventatively killing potential five-colonants, traitors, and among the founders of these democratic parties there are many of them, so I'm not surprised that you are doing so. In any case, Serbian citizens, don't worry too much, January 20 is not far. All those who have robbed you since 5 October 2000 will be called to account and will not be seen who is who. There will be no vice-presidents of the National Assembly who will defend the character and work of those who all Serbian citizens know are up to their necks involved in various criminal and corruption affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14646	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out on an amendment, although I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, but he doesn't like it, although I don't tell him I will, and I will, how he lied in one of the most read daily newspapers, in the daily newspaper "Justice", but I came out to congratulate the citizens of Loznica on something that happened 15 minutes ago, which is very significant. How hypocrite you are, Mr Dinkic, you and your party G17 plus, is also the fact that the president of Vidoje Petrovic municipality is from your party. Your party and party Boris Tadic, 15 minutes ago, your council members in a municipality where the president from G17 plus, did not want to vote for an initiative that was voted on, and therefore I congratulate all the citizens of Loznica and all the honourable committees who voted for Mr Vladimir Putin, president of the Russian Federation, to become an honorary citizen of Loznica. He became that 15 minutes ago. I, indeed, congratulate you on the committee of Loznica, and let this serve the honor of Mladjan Dinkic, who had just told you about the future production of cars from the Zastava factory and from another factory, which he had imagined in his head, as he imagined in that video in 2000, when you came to power after the five-octobaric coup, when you entered the National Bank with automatic rifles. You said then, Mr. Dinkic, and such a video was spinning every day on television, that citizens would live from their work, that everyone would have a job, birds were chirping, beautiful music, a colourful video, everything was wonderful, all the new houses, new apartments, children traveling abroad, and everything was so beautiful, but for you and your friends. Serbian citizens are getting poorer, and Russia obviously won't. You don't care that in such a sensitive political moment for Serbia and the Serbian people, when only Russia, China and other well-intentioned countries want to help us, you declare the president of the Russian Federation an honorary citizen where yours, by some chance, is elected president of the municipality. What do we talk about next? This is your message and message to Boris Tadic and the Russians and Vladimir Putin, but since we Serbian radicals, I believe, as well as most Serbs, Russians and facing the friendly mother of Russia, we know, because a few days ago the state television announced it, that they have awareness of where Serbia should go after 20 January. Because the information in the Russian television daily was that in Serbia, 20 January, it was chosen between a liberal candidate, it was the one who, together with you, ruined the economy, our nation and economy, and the candidate of Serbian nationalists, whose president in The Hague Kazamat and who began the trial, i.e. between Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. They know very well, the state, political leadership of the Russian Federation, that Serbia must, on 20 January, lead Tomislav Nikolic, because it is the only way that citizens of Serbia, citizens of Loznica, citizens of all cities in Serbia can be sure that we will cooperate and have a strategic partnership with our friends, with those who will not take our territory and with those who have always, throughout the centuries, only wanted our people well. As for those and the ignorant DS MPs, who at the moment are getting, they'd be better off, as our people say, covering their ears and keeping quiet, because they were never in Russia, in any city, they weren't, with their feet, just like their president didn't do until he was elected president. You don't care about Russia, you don't care about our people's friends. You are, in the right sense, masochists. You worship to be oppressed by your European Union, to be struck every day with a stick on your head, and the more they strike you, the more you speak, the more beautiful it is to me, the more beautiful it is to me. These consequences, a distinguished colleague, are seen and in your case you feel very well, but unfortunately, citizens suffer because of your masochism and masochism, Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14648	The word has a minister of economy and regional development, Mr Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14649	To answer this previous question – why have we imposed a ban on participation in auctions and tenders and persons convicted and those against whom criminal proceedings have been brought. Because it's inappropriate for it to stand in other laws. For example, when you are employed in the state administration, you are asked for proof that you are not being prosecuted or not convicted. If that's a condition for someone to get a job in a state body, how come it's not a condition that someone can participate in a tender or auction? So that was the insistence of the Ministry of Economy, to necessarily prevent the participation of those convicted of serious crimes and those brought against them. It's not a criminal report, it's a procedure. In that sense, there is a law in our system where that provision exists. This isn't the first of those laws, there are several. Secondly, of course, just a moment to comment on what we just heard. Serbia is a small country. Being tied to only one side, no matter which side it is or how friendly it is, given that one day is not living, that it is living for a long time, is not good. It's always best to have good relations with everyone who's influential in the world, of course, with some of you in better relationships, with some of you in worse relationships, but it's very good to keep a good relationship with everyone. In that sense, I don't think it's a good policy, not in the economy, to attach to one, and certainly not in politics. But it's a matter of identifying each individual and I don't want to comment on it anymore. Let me give an explanation for the question of the gentleman who spoke earlier, why Mr. Bubalo is coming here. It's not really about any idea that anyone here is underestimating. On my request, Mr. Bubalo will be here since 4:00. It's my birthday today, so I asked him to come and be here since 4:00. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14650	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS are always trying to discuss it on the basis of arguments, based on facts and what it really says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone who does not believe can read Article 34(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads as follows: "Everyone is considered innocent of crime until his guilt is determined by the court's judicial decision." Mr. Dinkic, it's not the same when you're making it impossible for someone to work in state authorities and to prevent someone from participating in the privatisation process. If someone is employed by the authorities of the state administration, in general, in the state authorities, he is in a position to have the means of power, i.e. the levers of government in the country. You know for yourself, since you are a minister, in which all these levers of power can be used and misused. If someone participates in the privatisation process, and you prevent him because he is being prosecuted, then you, in a drastic way, violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind you, Mr Dinkic, of the action "Sabbe" in the spring of 2003, when about 12,000 Serbian citizens were arrested without any legal basis, when people's rights and freedoms were mass suspended, all under the firm to fight, the government of Zoran Zivkovic, against organised crime. Afterwards, it was found that most of these arrested Serbian citizens were not carrying, absolutely, any responsibility for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, nor were they involved in any criminal affairs, but served as a means of political reckoning with your political inexperiences. Approximately, this provision that you have entered into the Law of Privatization should probably serve the same purpose. If you wanted to fight crime and corruption consistently, those who illegally acquired their capital, then you should have started since 5 October 2000, because, just then, many, until then completely anonymous, have managed to make a huge fortune on the coat of arms of Serbian citizens, to make real empires, to become shareholders, or shareholders in large banks, to have millions of euros as stakes, etc. Should I remind you of your colleagues in the Serbian government who came to Serbia, and then, having no place to sleep, they slept with their aunt on the couch, and here, today in 2007, they are among the richest citizens of Serbia? Do I need to remind you of the images of the fall of 2000, when the whole world was flooded with information about people in phantoms, with automatic rifles, as they raided the Customs Administration, in public enterprises, some crisis headquarters, some so-called committees, so you had five ministers in one ministry, etc., when you burned down the Radio Television of Serbia, the Federal Assembly building, etc.? Where are your provisions in any law that you call for the criminal responsibility of the people who did such a thing? Here, speaking of the Russian Federation, I would like to inform the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that today the Assembly of the Ruma municipality has declared Russian Federation President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin an honorary citizen of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14652	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. On behalf of Mr. Mrkonjic and on behalf of myself, I congratulate Mr. Dinkic's birthday and thank you for accepting the explanation. Mr. Martinovic did not accept the explanation. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Presidency, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to tell you something, Mr. Albianic, because you are currently chairing. The relationship you have with the MPs in the assembly is extremely incorrect. You've already shown exceptional condescending towards the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14654	I'm just as tolerated to you, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14655	You're not tolerant. You've just allowed the conversation to go on for a while, and now that you've given me your word, you're communicating with an MP who sits in place, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14656	I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14657	When you find a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that at the same time you can chair and talk to an MP who speaks through a pay phone, who you've included time, then we can talk about it the way you talk. There is no such member in the Rules of Procedure. You can't go into the words of an MP while he's talking. I haven't said a word, there's no reason for you to give me a warning, you're breaking into my word, and that's not the first time. Please, really, behave as you should. There are colleagues of yours sitting next to you who know how to conduct a session. Leave it to them if you don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14658	I apologize again, Mr. Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14659	Thank you very much. Unlike the SRS MPs, I think this member is fine, and I don't like this amendment, or I'm glad the government turned it down. But I see another problem here. First, that member is a little late. We will all agree that there has been a lot of privatisation where the persons who have been convicted, and the persons who have been prosecuted, bought or participated in the privatisation. You just said, Mr. Dinkic, you can't even hire someone against a criminal case at the state administration. As far as I know, the person you've proposed to be governor of the National Bank, with all due respect for his work and the comments he makes to the government, is the person against whom a criminal case has been conducted and who has one executive verdict. We took it out here, at the pay phone, but everyone deafened to it. So, Mr. Jelasic, in the First Municipal Court, so it's possible, you'll see. Let me get back to this article. So, I think he's late. What about those tycoons, the one with the nice water that he recently made, you were at that opening? He has not been convicted, no criminal proceedings are being conducted, probably against him, but it is the only person I believe, in Serbia, which courts must not call to court, even as a witness. So this gentleman doesn't appear in court or as a witness, no one can call him. If a little different judiciary were to work here, then you would see that this gentleman who was Deputy Prime Minister of 1990, Milosevic's government, a man who, during the 1990s, acquired a great fortune, and now, during the time you've been Minister of Finance, namely from the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, holds a monopoly in this country. It's a person who took part in a lot of privatisations, not to mention the "C-market" and the famous gathering at Kostunica in the cabinet, up to these slave houses, where he planted someone else to buy the Slave House for him, and in fact, he owns it. It is the person who brings the money from Cyprus, or the money from Cyprus, or other destinations. He will be able to participate in privatisations because he has not been prosecuted, or because he has not been convicted so far. A moment ago, Mr. Martinovic, now sorry he came out, said Mr. Nikolic would fight corruption. How do you think you do that if the government of Vojislav Kostunica works and Vojislav Kostunica is prime minister? There's no fight against corruption. He put it out in his program when he took an oath here, but all he's done so far has shown he's not fighting corruption. Why, since 2000 alone, what about the 90s period, when those who, with the moss, are engaged in privatisation, i.e. buying businesses in Serbia, in the 1990s began to acquire their property, in a way, is certainly not within the law? Once again, I think that this member of the law is okay, that it is a good thing that this amendment is not accepted, because the persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted cannot participate in privatisation. I believe that the citizens of this country are also sick of injustice and that they are really sick of seeing more of these who participate in great privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14660	National MP Predrag Mikic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14661	I want, on behalf of the SRS MP, to take advantage of this moment while Minister Dinkic is here before he goes to a birthday party, to ask him a question. It concerns investments in Sombor municipality. I want to take advantage of the presence of Mladjan Dinkic and ask the question, to which I am looking for an answer, as regards the case of setting up a cornerstone for the construction of a factory for the production of the Kalcedonija underwear in Sombor. The question is - what about the factory for which, when setting the cornerstone, Minister Dinkic said that, in a foreign investor's conversation, the president of Sombor Jovan Slavkovic and him, as minister, had signed a contract to open the production plant by the end of September this year? Thus, and 400 new jobs, which you've been pompously promising to the citizens of Somboro. On that occasion, Minister Dinkic encouraged the investor that the state would separate an additional 2,000-euro stimulant for each job, and then we come up with an 800,000-euro figure. The site of the foundation stone is now pressed against the weeds instead of the walls promised to build a factory. The question arises – what about money, is 800,000 euros paid at the expense of investors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14662	Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14663	So the greenfield investment incentive system is such that money is paid in phases, never paid in advance, a guarantee is sought by whoever signs the contract to finish the job, gives a bank guarantee. If he gets the money and doesn't hire these workers, he doesn't build a factory, he has to get it back. So it's paid in four stages. The first phase is after obtaining a building permit. I don't know what stage this project is at, but it's good that you brought this up, and I'm gonna ask around, and I'm gonna give you a written answer. I'll ask the SIEPA, but it's certainly not paid, because it's generally a rule that it's not paid in advance but in stages, and the last stage is only when the last worker is hired. Otherwise, Calcedonia is a serious factory, a serious company, and this project is good for Sombor. Why didn't he go, if you're right, and there's no reason why I shouldn't believe it, I'll ask around, and I'll give you a written answer, because I'm interested too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14664	The word has been made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the second, now. I just asked a minister, and as far as I can tell, he's running away, not answering the question I asked. No matter how many times I go out for this amendment pay phone, I'm gonna ask the same question. I guess it's time for you to respond once, if not to the MP, at least to the public of Serbia. One of the questions for Mr. Minister, I see there's a replacement now, it's about this member. Mr. Minister, since you weren't here, just to let me know what the question was. Short, I don't want to explain, I've explained. What about the assets of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, therefore, of the property acquired by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund 100%? Is it the subject of privatisation or not what it's about? The Fund conducts judicial proceedings in this regard, and we believe that this should remain the property of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. That was a moment ago, when the subject of privatisation was on the agenda. Six years after the privatisation was carried out, i.e. after the privatisation was carried out, because it has not yet been implemented, later we will face the figures we have, I see that Mr. Vujadinović has precise figures, it is privatized, if I remember correctly, Mr. Vujadinović, 2,104 and 810 under that previous law on his own transformation. We'll later provide information as far as it's not privatized, so that we can, in general, discuss the effectiveness of privatisation. Here, it is a little strange that now, six years later, it is introduced as a reason, i.e. it is impossible for buyers of capital and property to be, or exclude persons convicted of certain criminal acts or against whom the proceedings for those acts are being conducted. A moment ago, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic was plowing with that story, and I know he's doing it well, and I won't be able to stay in that part. A customer can't be someone who's convicted of those acts. So if the Agency finds out, that's why it can break the contract. I'm asking, is that right? Second question. Since it's been six years, what have you been waiting for for six years to introduce that reason? Did the Agency have the right, in these six years, to find out if anyone, in the privatisation process, was buying dirty money? The third question, if established, in the privatisations that have been carried out, and we have listed, when it was a principle debate, that there are very big problems with many, that the buyer has bought such money, that it falls under this category of convictions for serious acts of robbery, etc., is the government going to review controversial privatisations? Please, very careful question. Often, when people ask the question of review, they get chilly, they think someone wants to do a privatisation review. No, it's not about reviewing privatisation, it's about revising controversial privatisations. So, if it is established now, I understand this for the future, but if it is found now that someone has become a buyer of a company of this kind of money, is that the reason and is the government going to review these privatisations? As far as we are concerned, the SPS, we believe that there must always be a review of the controversial privatisations, in order for privatisation in general to have its place and what it should otherwise have for its own purpose, in order for Serbian citizens to have confidence in privatisation. Quite specifically, we're witnesses here, we've been asked parliamentary questions, I've been asking them, what about privatising the Center Market? I don't know who didn't talk about it. Given that this is the case, in particular, of Mr Radulovic, if I am not mistaken, and he would, in particular, now fall under this article, because criminal proceedings are being conducted, what happens to this privatisation? So it's about very specific issues, concrete examples. During the talks on each amendment, we will give an example, so that, above all, the Serbian public will have the answers to all these questions. Of course, with the question that now, six years later, it seems a little strange to introduce something like this, but it's good, eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14666	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) The People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(2), point 4, indent 7. I suggested that the words "criminal association" and "unauthorized activity" be deleted. I think Article 3 is key and we need to take care of it, given that, in my opinion and the SRS' opinion, the motionary here has violated the Constitution. In fact, the article excludes people who are being prosecuted for certain crimes, which have not been tried by law, from the privatisation process. I think that's where several provisions of the Constitution were violated. My previous colleague listed Article 34(3). I still have to point to article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and Article 21 reads: "The Constitution and the law are all equal". Paragraph 2 reads: Everyone has the right to equal legal protection, without discrimination. In this case, we ruled out the possibility of certain people against whom a criminal procedure is being conducted to participate in the privatisation process and to put them in a position not to participate, or to be discriminated against by all others. Article 34. The constitution, as well as legal traffic, applies the rule of presummation of innocence. So until a citizen is convicted by a judicial verdict, he has every right. In this case, in my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, we have violated the provisions of the Constitution, Art. Items 21 and 34 3. In addition, it is important to note that we have frequently changed the Privatisation Act. It was delivered in 2001. Not to mention the ones from the '90s. So this law was passed in 2001, it was changed in 2003,2005, and now we're changing it for the fourth time. On the other hand, we privatized two thirds of social and state capital. Now we're going to rule out certain people we don't think should participate in. Why didn't we bring this into basic, basic law in 2001? The bill promoter is making a mistake again, not only in this case, but also in the case of large utility systems and small systems, i.e. public enterprises. Also, we haven't fully addressed the issue of state capital of major energy systems, NIS and EPS, so we will redefine it with lex specialis laws. One big system, the municipal system of the local level, in the municipalities, we also haven't fully solved, so we're going to bring legal projects from this area to privatise it. Once again, the proposer enters a partial solution to certain vitals and does not solve a single, comprehensive law of what is the obligation of the promoter and the current authorities. In addition, when we talk about this article, when we exclude certain people, we have to say that we do not have adequate control of privatized enterprises. We haven't adequately solved that. We've allowed this to happen again to the Agency, the inspection services and some other state bodies, but we don't have a single system. Then we have a number of problems in practice, that when a customer commits to do something, they don't do it in practice. Only when there are problems in companies, and most often social programmes, so this is inadequately reflected on company workers, there are certain strikes, we see certain gaps that make state authorities inadequately controlled. What I have to say to Minister Bubal, is that we don't have adequate work, we haven't had it so far, we haven't had it yet, we don't have a commission for succession, we don't have one that worked within the federal government, we don't have a commission for the federal government, and after the state community, and today's commission doesn't work at that rate, either. The speedy procedure, as it should. Why? Because, in his presentation, I said, the huge assets of Serbian companies remained in Croatia, Slovenia and other countries. The Commission, which should make a partial balance, do the beating, that, in the end, use the material and financial assets that remained there, does this inadequately. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in exile, I will tell you that I contacted the President and the Secretary of the Commission for Sucession two years ago, while she was a state union, and then I was told that the most inactive was our commission. The woman said, "Don't do anything." We're not doing anything, even when it comes to diplomatic representations abroad, we haven't defined anything in the time of the break-up of Yugoslavia. The way anyone came in, more or less, that's what's left. Not to mention the property of our companies that cannot be used, or values in other countries, and the particular issue is the property of Serbs who left the former Socialist republics; they were exiled, they came here, and huge values remained there. Minister Bubalo, I urge you, on behalf of the Republika Srpska government in persecution, to do something, especially in the area of personal rights, the property rights of Serbs who have left the premises of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, especially in the area of rights acquired. The conflict agreement is clear. He was ratified by everyone, and the last one was ratified by the Republic of Croatia in 2004. He is now in legal power in all the former socialist states, including us. The Succession Commission must work, we have this agreement, we have many other agreements that define the issues of acquired rights and private property of the Serbs of Krajisnik who have been expelled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and huge property is there. So we have a commission and that commission has to work. So far none of these committees have worked together, so I invite you to work actively on it. The government has its competences there, it can seek a report, speed up the process, that through diplomatic representations in the Republic of Croatia and other countries it is actively working in terms of regulating these rights. Those rights are open, but it's been 16 years. Private property has not been used for 16 years. According to international law, we have the right to just compensation for the inability to use that property. It's just that Serbs get it, not to say we get what really belongs to us, because it's huge values, but we're unable to physically go there and try wrestling with Croatian organs. There's no help here. The only help is you, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. You have international rights, you have international agreements and you must have a good will. You don't have any good will, so far you haven't had it. So, this 18th month was held by the Republika Srpska Assembly in exile. We talked about these questions. I'm in charge of warning you, to beg you to move, because there has been no movement so far. As I have already raised this issue about the Assembly, I can tell you that we have given full support to our President Milan Martic, who was innocently convicted by The Hague tribunal. We give full support in the defence of Prof. Vojislav Seselj and thank him for everything and for everything they have done for the Serbian people from the territory of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. Besides, we've talked about seizing rights. We individually try, people go there, but they're disabled; administration, delay procedures, disabling. It's far easier to get rid of from the state level. For the rights acquired there by Serbs by 1990, and even after, we have a conflict agreement, we have that commission, turn it on. Here we even proposed, on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska, the formation by municipalities of certain commissions, which will revise all contracts carried out during the period of wartime circumstances, 1990, 1991 and 1992 – replacement between Croats and Serbs. There is damage, first of all, to the Serbian people. It was like that in 95% of the cases. They were leaving their estates, trading them for far less and more valuable property here. The interest is, I guess, for Serbia's countries to put it on the table, to discuss any replacement and to make the difference worth it to every man who's left, because it's private property. It is a private right, which is unimpeached in all the civilised and democratic states of the world. For a month, this initiative here in the Assembly, I insist that it be discussed, discussed in this parliament, in the Croatian Parliament. It's been 15 years since these events, we're far more mature, more stable and calmer. We can solve these issues far more effectively now, if there's any interest, and there seems to be no interest here. Finally, to invite all Krajisniks, friends of Krajina, to go to the elections on January 20th and vote for patriots, patriotism, one who will resolve these issues, which will launch the initiative, not only in this home, but in Croatia and the international community, to intrigue everyone. It's Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14668	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14669	Mr. Bubalo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you must accept this amendment by fellow Buhe, agree, when Dinkic's birthday party is over, because he can't survive a member like this, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and according to the applicable laws in our country. You, as a member of the DS, Mr. Bubalo, will understand better than Mr. Dinkic, I am convinced. Namely, our legal system does not know such legal categories. According to Article 136, with the constitutional basis, the explanation of basic legal institutes and concepts, I ask you, but it is incorrect that I ask you to do so, because you, here, wanted to be collegiate, to replace it while it shuts out the candles on the cake. A criminal association, an unauthorized activity, it simply cannot survive in this member of the law. I can agree with all this other stuff. The only question is, how is it possible for the government of Serbia and Minister Dinkic to think of this seven years later? Why wasn't there a criminal act in that basic law, as you stated, of association, which can't survive, but organised crime? After the criminals organized themselves, after the DOS came to power, because they bought everything, and since many of them escaped and I don't know their trail, Janjusevic, Kolesar and others, these others are at large, since the top of the state government had direct connections with organised mobs and criminal groups, you now, when all this happened, you remembered that it was punishable and that you put it into the amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. That's really amazing. What about those who have also been found at the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation, you know that, and as previous Minister, Mr. Bubalo, who have sinned against the law and who have clearly come through organised crime to possess these enterprises, which did not respect, in particular, social contracts for workers who had lost their jobs? Will this apply to them? Of course they won't, but for the future ones they're supposed to buy. What else do they buy here? That's what this is about. Secondly, "criminal association," it's unsustainable, it doesn't exist in the Constitution, right, Mrs. Radeta, in this codified law, in the Criminal Code, which we passed last year. We searched everything and former Minister Stojkovic discussed so much with us and at the session of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and through the parliamentary amendments. Where did he come from and who did he think of this term? It is the direct influence of Carla del Ponte and the UN tribunal that is chasing Serbs. The joint criminal enterprise and criminal association, it's almost the same. You've been so under the influence of this innovation in legal terms because they don't respect each other. The provisions of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, read – only for the trial of Serbs, do not know in its rules a term – a joint criminal enterprise. Because what stands in a false indictment against our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, it is pointless for someone to write "joint criminal enterprise", and you here write "criminal association," and the president of our party is with some, who accuse him of being with them in a joint criminal enterprise, his entire life in open enemy relations, and some of them he didn't even know. Now you qualify for the work in the economy, in the privatisation process, as a criminal association, as they do the qualification - a joint criminal enterprise, and then selectively select and identify the group, and that group that joined together, it's only Serbs and only Serbs who killed and committed crimes. You can, as the lawyers would say, instead of a qualification of this crime, a potential, in the amendment and addition of this law, Minister Bubalo, only to carry out the quantification of these crimes, and the qualification that this is a criminal enterprise, and then, as you said in this second part, unauthorized activity, it is indeed unsustainable. Every lawyer in this room will tell you that. It is very possible that these provisions will be found before the Constitutional Court, because something like this cannot stand in Serbian laws. It looks good on you in this explanation, I wanted to, Mr. Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure, but since time is left, it can't, by Article 136. Rules of Procedure, Article 1(2), must comply with the law with the basic legal terms and terms applicable in our country. This doesn't exist. Therefore, my colleague Buha is right when he asks for this amendment to be accepted. Think, as a serious man, of this, as a member of the DSS, who, I guess, will not accuse Serbs in the way this anti-Serbian Hague casamat does. It's your turn, Mr. Bubalo, to summon your senses and to know what you're supposed to do on January 20th. I'm sure you'll know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14670	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Who's answering for a word? The word is from Ambassador Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Privatisation Act. I wanted many criticisms and arguments to refer to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, however, he had a lot of work to do, as he celebrates his birthday today, so Mr. Bubalo is here, but surely he will tell him what I am saying about the amendment of his colleague, Nebojša Stefanovic. On behalf of the SRS, he submitted an amendment to Article 4(2) which is amended and reads: "If a public call is not made within the time limit set out in Article 1 of this Article, the Agency shall adopt a decision to initiate the privatisation procedure". Before I move on to the amendment, I'm going to say something about the reasoning of the Privatisation Act. It says that in order to protect the economic environment and the budget of the Republic of Serbia from capital inflows stemming from crime, corruption or money laundering, certain restrictions on conditions for participation in privatisation procedures have been introduced. Looks like we don't live in the same country. So far, several thousand companies have been privatized. There is no city in Serbia that has not entered the dirty capital. Perhaps, of all privatised social enterprises, we have only 10% of those where there is clean capital, where businesses that were successful even before 2000 participated in privatisations. However, in many cities today local, or already state-level, criminals, who have become enormously wealthy since 5 October, have started to buy social enterprises in Serbia and local self-governments, so that in the privatisation that has been so far, for these seven years, we have so much capital that they, retailes, now become masters of individual local self-governments, because they dictate everything, both in terms of employment, and in terms of co-operative enterprises, in general, what will become of them. Mahom, no social enterprise that was privatised has continued to deal with this activity, but has only been committed or resales, or what, such as the Požarec municipality, where I come from, from Braničevsky County, where there has been an arrest of an organized mafia, which has been working on a association in connection with the criminal activities that took place when the privatisation of the Avala social enterprise was made. It is one of the most powerful catering companies in Pozarevec, where an unrealistic estimate of capital was made, where many people participated and where the company, worth five million marks then, was bought for a very small amount, for five million dinars. A number of years later, it was revealed who was involved in all of this, and they were all involved in the five-octobaric changes. It's not a unique example. Every day, an affair is opened after an affair, or individual participants are arrested in privatisations and bankruptcy managers and all other persons who participated in this robbery privatisation. In Pogorevec, over 5,000 workers used to go to the industrial zone to work, and now you can't see 100 workers leaving to provide a existence for their family. Minister Dinkic tells us here, and when he performs in the media, about the EU, about European integration, about employment, introduces some new public works projects, he again tries to deceive Serbian citizens. But I think the citizens for these seven years have realized that it is only one fairy tale, which has long been told, in which they no longer believe, so that they will confirm it in the elections, when, with all their heart for Serbia and with all their heart for Tomislav Nikolic, they will vote for an SRS candidate. Future Serbian President, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as was the case in Russia after Boris Jelicin's departure, when Boris Tadic left, will begin checking the full privatisation that was carried out from 2000 until 2007. Many malversions will then be established, the participation of many high-ranking officials and many leaders of individual DOS parties in all these illegal actions will be established. It will be when all those who are now arrested of the talks are not allowed to, because on October 5th, together with you, participated in the overthrow of the regime in order to make the citizens live better. However, after the DOS came to power, we have a million unemployed citizens in Serbia. Every day, when we come to meetings of the Assembly, we meet citizens here who are trying to show you how much trust you have in the citizens of Serbia and what has been happening to privatised social enterprises since you've been in power. However, they cannot be admitted to you, nor to the ministries, nor to the parliamentary clubs, but come to Serbian radicals, to bring us evidence of this, so that a large amount of material is being prepared that, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic comes and when this government is changed, he examines privatisation in all businesses. I almost visited the Pyrot County, specifically, in the town of Piroth. I was welcomed by the citizens of Piroth to provide me with some information regarding the privatisation of the tire production plant, where there were also certain malversions. There are other social enterprises that are privatized there, where citizens are out of work. You know that this part of Serbia has been in a very bad state anyway, and after this privatisation, the minority, the citizens have nothing to live on. All this will change after these elections, because citizens have recognised the person who can lead this Serbia, they have recognised a party that will bring a better future to Serbia, so 20th and will vote for Mr Nikolic and for the SRS. To return to the amendment my colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted on behalf of the SRS. In Article 4. The proposal for a privatisation law states that in order to privatise non-privatised social capital, a public call for participation in a public tender, or public auction, must be announced no later than 31 December 2008. In Article 2, which my colleague has proposed to amend, it states: ‘If a public call is not published within the time limit set in Article 1’ (until 31 December 2008), ‘The Agency shall adopt a solution to the launch of an emergency liquidation of the privatisation entity (hereinafter referred to as: winding-up)’. A colleague, Nebojsa Stefanovic, has tabled an amendment to amend Article 4(2). The Privatisation Act, because the Privatisation Agency should not be given too broad powers, such as the possibility to launch a forced liquidation of the Privatisation Entity, but it should be possible to carry out the privatisation process effectively. It means that if the Agency does not launch the privatisation procedure by 31 December 2008, it will be allowed to carry out the privatisation process, but not the liquidation procedure. I hope you will have the understanding and that you will accept the amendment of the SRS and colleagues of Nebojsa Stefanovic, because this will improve such a bad proposal for a law on privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14672	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has his word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14673	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14674	Mr. Migati, under Article 103. Rules of Procedure, you have to talk about what's on the agenda. Let's just leave it to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14675	Don't keep breaking the Rules of Procedure and don't ever interrupt me again. Remember that one time. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to give me an explanation right now so we can discuss the bill for amending the law so we don't play deaf phones. I have three vague things. First, you say here - who is not involved in a criminal association. I'm asking, what's the difference between criminal association and organized crime? Organised crime in the legal language is clear and loud, and this is so vague and unspeakable, it's just Hague terminology. Let's see that you're right when you put in that criminal association as a way that prohibits people from participating in the privatisation process. Second, you say: “and unauthorized activity. ” In addition to all that you have said before – drugs, weapons, etc., it is even illogical; there is also an unauthorized organisation of gambling. It can't be in one normal state. Really, there's something not clear. Explain to us. We may be mistaken. Explain the difference between one, the other, the third, so we can discuss further. It doesn't matter if you accept it or not to accept it, there's something not clear about it. This legal category is not clear – criminal association, and this is even more unclear – unauthorized dealing with certain activities, where you list everything that the legal category so far knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14676	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that after the Five-Octobar Revolution, the democratisation of Serbia began to work. Unfortunately, I was born in 5.5.1953, so it seems to me that for 50 years I was cloned and that I was not, at all, until that period, until the DOS came to power, existed, but I already exist these seven-eight years. But these seven-eight years have created a great sadness for Serbia, a great sadness for Serbia. It seems to me that the representatives of the government, there are no ministers left, so they can't hear what happened in Serbia in these seven years. It happened, ladies and gentlemen, my former Serbian radicals spoke of it, a criminal project, as you call it in this bill of law, which is a criminal project that has already been implemented for the past seven years. Apparently, you are now fighting the crime project, in which many, by obtaining their capital and money in an unauthorized way, bought or privatised certain companies in Serbia. What is very important, unfortunately, is the current Minister of Injustice, Mr Dusan Petrovic, when he was the president of the Šabac municipality...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14678	Just precise, Minister of Justice, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14679	... In four years of his reign, he managed to privatize, or destroy the Sabbath economy, the Sabbath economy. He also destroyed the Sabbath banking, but unfortunately Mr Dinkic is not here, he had to leave because he could no longer listen to the truth, so he allegedly found a reason for his birthday today. Ladies and gentlemen, great complexes have been destroyed. As the chemical industry "Zorca" was destroyed in Šapac, the largest factory was destroyed, what Serbia was proud of, and that is the factory of mineral fertilisers in Šapco. It was also destroyed, a factory with which Serbia could be proud and which made profits during the period of the biggest economic blockade, paying workers the holding company, which is "Protection of Plants" Shabac. And she's ruined. Fifteen Zorka factories have been destroyed. Maybe, in one period, three or four factories are in some sort of "transparent" way privatized. The first factory to be criminally privatized and kidnapped by workers is "Mepritlastika" Shabac, where former Chamber of Commerce President Radosav Veseinović, once a member of the DHSS, was, I guess, in turn, the creator of the DS, and is now probably in the DS ranks, because it changes the feathers as it suits him, i.e. so that he could also act politically and economically. He stole from the stockbrokers, he usurped the company, and now he's proud of how the company works. In fact, that company fired 300, 400 workers, there are only a hundred workers who work day and night, because they have nowhere to find a nick; the only way is to work 15-16 hours. It waits for all other workers and thus also works for workers in other privatised companies in Šapec. The companies privatised did not continue the production trend they were dealing with until then, but the owners found different profitable methods to get to a certain capital, the rest declared to be excess workers and fired, not taking care of those people who became disabled for their 35-40 years of employment, but were violently expelled. It takes them three or four years to retire. Now I ask you, where are you going to hire a 55-60-year-old man to get the right to retire? Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that I mention that many of the bankruptcy companies that were in Šapec were also abused, because they took money from their accounts to finance certain cultural events, or football clubs. It's, for example, the Shabbac Trade Company, not to mention another trading firm, Nama Shabac, which was also kidnapped and the workers were robbed of action, because the space they had before then, shops and certain markets, was kidnapped and abused for other purposes. Just one more sentence. The biggest criminal theft that ever happened is in the PIO Fund, where the director is Goran Loncar. I asked the question, and I ask the answer, that I have been given the code since 2003, how is it allowed in these branches, which are 48 in Serbia, to work overtime? This overtime was done by drivers, and secretaries, and cleaning women, and not by the staff they were supposed to be dealing with. So I'm looking for a code from 2003 to this day, how are they allowed to do overtime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14680	The People's MP Željko Vasiljevic has his word on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14681	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, he's good at this chairman, he just needs a little more detail to explain otherwise, he understands everything. I have submitted to this article an amendment that is almost identical to the amendment that has been submitted by a colleague before me. It is a member, who, to us, MPs from the SPS, no matter what some of them are very experienced businessmen, with many years of work experience, is not clear, and that is Article 4. Proposal for a law, item 3. 1). The proposal is to delete point 1). It is the part where it writes – the liquidation is started for privatisation entities whose social capital, i.e. property is not sold after the third public tender, or public auction. In the light of the reasons why this amendment is not accepted, among other things, we point out that the unacceptable explanation of the amendment's proposings, which does not require the liquidation of positive entities, because privatisation has not been successfully carried out, since the liquidation of the company's assets is carried out precisely on SOEs, i.e. those entities that operate positively and whose obligations do not exceed their assets. I must admit that so far it has been clear to me that bankruptcy and recovery can be carried out against an entity that respects the instructions, but that we execute the liquidation to help someone, I am not convinced to this day, although I have consulted many people who have been dealing with the economy much longer than I have, almost 40 years; and this has not been clear to them either. What is the essence of our amendment? Not to go into liquidation of positive business operators, and for some reason they failed to privatise even after the third attempt. Indeed, we don't mind that the agency provided for in this text of the law is privatizing such an entity, but we don't think that the act of liquidation itself is well imagined. I assume that the explanation that you have given with the next member – where and how the liquidation is to be carried out, is not the legislator's explanation and desire to provide for this member, in order to ensure the bankruptcy manager of the prize, so that part of the company's assets that remains in the Republic of Serbia's budget, etc. So I ask you once again, if you can, to explain to us how it is possible that we tend to, even, liquidate companies whose privatisation we failed to perform after the third attempt? I think it would be a much-willed solution that we have provided for this member of the law a mandatory way of privatization and that we have denied the possibility of the body itself managing this economic entity so that it can prevent the privatisation process without going to that drastic extent, such as liquidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14682	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here, and when it comes to this member, another opportunity for the public to clarify this issue, important issues when it comes to privatisation. I think the public deserves the minister to give very precise answers to the questions we're going to raise. On behalf of the SPS, at the beginning of today's discussion on this law, I noted that we are interested in five issues, because we believe that they are particularly important and that all must be clarified to the end, to be clear to the public and to the citizens. These are: the subject of privatisation, there I had a specific question; then, the deadline and what after that privatisation period; the subject of the sale; what the contract contains or should contain and control the contract. These are about five questions that we feel should be clarified to the end, whether or not the amendments will be accepted. The purpose of this debate on amendments is not only to formally accept something, reject etc., but to get a full picture of one process and everything that follows the process and, of course, can clearly tell who is behind it. When it comes to this member, it is, by the way, Article 4, which amends Article 12 of the Privatisation Act, essentially speaks of a time limit for the implementation of privatisation. To remind the public, in 2001, when the Privatisation Act was passed, a four-year deadline was established, 2003 – again four years and it is now running out. The changes that were made in 2005 did not touch the deadline. So it's been six years since the start of privatisation by this new model of privatisation. I'm not talking about the previous one, which tangled the Transformation Act in 1997, which privatized about 810 subjects, Mr. Vujadinović, if I said so well among them, and very successful, such as "Hemofarm", "Apatian brewery", "Knjiz Milos" and not to count any further. Apparently, workers knew what to do with these actions and that the state had a little more protection for small shareholders. After that, there would be many more good examples. When it comes to this member, the government proposes that the deadline for the implementation of the social capital privatisation should be moved, not to be the end of this year, but by the end of next year, i.e. by the end of 2008 to open a public tender, or auction. So it moves not for a year, but a little more than a year. Please take a good look at this deadline. According to the Government, it could not be privatised to social capital for objective reasons, because of incomplete property-legal documents, etc., entities that were on the territory of other republics, which this legislation corrects, etc. So the government gave an explanation why it could not privatise social capital, to complete privatisation by the end of 2007. After that, the government shifts that deadline and then introduces the consequences if not privatized. It says – legal consequence is provided for privatisation entities operating in social capital, which are not privatised within the prescribed time limit. If no privatisation is made within that period, the government shall introduce the Institute of Forced Liquidation. I call on the government to take another good look at this and explain it very closely to the public, and here's why. So, what did we suggest? We have proposed, to this member, that the social capital of the privatisation entity for which no public call for participation in a public tender, i.e. public auction, should expire until the deadline laid down in Article 1, or that the property of the privatisation entity which has not been sold after the 3rd public tender, i.e. public auctions, unprivatised social capital, be transferred to the Action Fund. My colleagues from the SRS had a different approach – that the Agency should initiate the privatisation process if this is not done within that period. We don't mind, we just want to warn the next one. Before I add that when we say it is transferred to the Action Fund, then it is understood that 30% of the unprivatised social share of capital is transferred to employees without compensation, in accordance with the provisions of Art. 42 to 44 of this law, but it will be more detailed later. When we talk about transferring to the Action Fund, it's a similar solution, it seems to me, Article 26, which the government itself suggested, that the minority part, also, as an unattractive, be transferred to the Action Fund so that it could continue to work. What did we have in mind when we proposed these amendments? Here are some data, according to our colleague Vujadinovic, CIP - figures in front of politics. I'm asking you to follow. 2104 companies were privatised, and according to the Law on their own transformation – 810 companies. Please pay attention to the following. According to the Bureau of Statistics and Information, in September of this year, we found information, please respond to the government's gentlemen, if this is according to their data, there were 1835 other social enterprises. Please comment on that information. There are, in addition to public enterprises, 83,738 companies with limited responsibility. Not to count further, which means a pretty big number. So these are the ones where social capital hasn't changed, it hasn't transformed and there's no privatisation done. I'm asking the Privatisation Agency if it's compatible with their data or, more specifically, I'm asking how many more social enterprises should be privatised, or how many have not been privatized so far? So how many other companies do you need to privatize? Secondly, does the Privatisation Agency have data that a significant number of limited liability companies in the structure of their capital also have social capital? Is there anything like that, do you have that data and how much is it? When all of this comes to mind, we don't think this is a good solution and we need to take another good look at it. Because what's going to happen, how many forced liquidations are going to be at the end of 2008? I don't want to be like this, so let me say, is there anyone waiting for a forced liquidation to be introduced as soon as possible to have the property that remains? I don't think that's the case, but I'm warning you, there can be a possibility, too. Is it good, is it economically correct, is it appropriate that companies that fight, have social capital, fight, do business successfully, when I say, do business successfully, I mean that they also have extra income, are not attractive? Is it good to have it liquidated? Is it good that companies in areas that are not sufficiently developed, which operate on social capital, and still not so high in interest, are forced to be liquidated afterwards? We don't think it's economical or purposeful, nor is it good to do it that way. We have a whole series of examples, behind me will speak colleagues who will give concrete examples, but the point is that the Government is considering whether, instead of automatic forced liquidation, it will accept that the transfer of unprivatised state capital is carried out in the Action Fund, along with, of course, the simultaneous privatisation of part of social capital through share shares without remuneration to employees. I'm not talking about that other group of people who deal with losses, the other group of these companies. There's a way to get close, but it's not good, in our opinion. We ask that the Government, first of all, take a good look at this, not to accept, or to give up this concept of forced liquidation, according to the "cutting" system in all order, but to consider the possibility of doing so in a way that it does not question those companies that are operating in social capital, which are also objective reasons, which are listed here by the legislator here, not privatized, to be present next year. I'm not saying that this process is stalling, that I don't know how long it takes. The biggest mistake of the Law on his own transformation was, in addition to all the other mistakes, which he was not armed with. Therefore, it is not my pledge here to delay this from becoming unconscious, but it is necessary to make a difference, it is necessary to look at all the businesses, all the reasons, objectively, as the Government states when amending this law, and thus preserve businesses, and by keeping these companies, we will reduce the enormously large number of unemployed people anyway. You will agree, one privatisation can only be assessed as successful if it is invested in that company, if production is launched, if it is employed, if there are new jobs, and if, as so far, it is not possible to be successful privatisation. In the end, I ask, or the SPS Parliamentary Group, that the Government once again sees this problem, to look at how many non-privatised enterprises there are, which should be privatised and that, as appropriate, adopt this amendment. Otherwise, this amendment is not only an amendment to the SPS, it is an amendment to the Serbian Union, which we support in their struggle to preserve as much as possible in this privatisation process, above all, employees, and it is time for someone to protect them after all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14684	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a minister of trade and service, Mr. Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14685	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, here, for about an hour I followed the discussion, so I felt the need, so as not to build up more questions, that at least part of the questions that have been asked so far I would try to answer. So when I entered the O.R., he was just commenting on MP Milisav Petronijevic and, behold, he had just finished these first hour. Right now, let me say that the property of the PIO Fund is not the subject of privatisation. The subject of privatisation is the actions transferred in favour of the PIO Fund and sold during the Action Fund. The Privatisation Agency is not responsible for checking the origin of capital, and even if it is competent, I can claim it did not have such capacity, it is not presently. No way. There are some other organs that have been involved, that are engaged and that should be dealt with in the future with this issue. So, so far, there has been a need for someone to deal with the control of the origin of capital. We have organs for that. Also, this law did not provide for retroactiveness, because that was the case. I know that whenever it was tried to introduce itself into some of the laws retroactively, the MPs were justifiably the biggest dam for such a thing. This privatisation law, it's true, he's had a few changes so far, three or four, I don't know exactly, I think this is the fourth change. However, it is good that this law, however, has experienced time-checking and basic ideas, the basic philosophy of this law has not been changed since 2002. The law is corrected precisely in the direction of efficiency and correcting what was seen to be not working in it. I was the author in one part of the changes, where we changed the way the contract was broken, so the Agency was given the right to automatically terminate the contract if any of the laws of the envisaged cases occurred, not – an inefficient way through courts. Everyone has, afterwards, the ability to protect their rights in court, but the basic model has not been changed. Exactly what we did in 2005 allowed us to say that up until now 280 contracts have been broken, by 2005, there were 20 of them, which means that constant control of the implementation of contractual obligations exists. There's no dilemma at all. Contract control exists at the time of conclusion and several, in the course of realization, extraordinary controls, depending on cases. True, there have also been cases where dissatisfied workers insisted, because some of their rights are not being fulfilled, at the end of the contract, but it was not a dominant number of cases. The dominant number of cases is what the Agency, respecting the law it had in its hands, decided to break up. What's positive, because even a breakup should be seen on the other hand, only a few cases have been lost in court, as an unwarranted breakup, I think it's, so far, two or three cases, no more. So, it turns out that 280, or 270, and some contract is quite justifiably broken. There were words here about why one law did not regulate the privatisation of social enterprises, public state-owned enterprises and public utility companies. Believe me, I've dealt with these issues a lot, it's almost impossible. First, there is a big difference between public state and social enterprises, not only in the origin of capital, and when it comes to public utility companies, we have a conglomerate when it comes to property, because a lot of things are built out of self-dependence, because people, in private, have invested in gas connections, etc., and so have local self-government, and this came from a republican level. So first we should coordinate all of this, bring it all to the common denominator, and that's almost impossible. There is also a need to discuss property relations in such companies. On the other hand, it's not all about selling what's in public utility companies, etc. But not to elaborate everything that happens when it comes to public utility companies, I think it'll soon come to the agenda. The constitution has confirmed that private, state and cooperative property will continue to exist in the future. Hence, there is really no reason for haste when it comes to state property. Social property is no longer mentioned by the Constitution and should be forgotten as soon as possible, or finished with what has not yet been completed. "Criminal Association" exists in the Criminal Code. 346 and 353 and there are differences between organized crime and criminal association. The Law makes them different, therefore, I'm no expert on this area, but, definitely, there are two different crimes. I've often been here, if we throw away what's part of the election campaign, I've had the impression, in some exhibitions, that people haven't spent a lot of time in our manufacturing companies, when they're making a regrettable as much as they do. I spent my entire working life in a company, in companies, and I know how much business is done. I know what efficiency is in our companies and I know what productivity is, and that's maybe a quarter of the time spent in the company. In the end, I want to say something about what Mr. Petronijevic has finished, and he has ended the questions. So we should keep in mind what quality businesses are still left to privatize. In the first period of privatisation, and even when it was a property transformation, they went, in a way, the best-quality enterprises. At the beginning of privatisation, according to this 2002 law, the most attractive companies went, and then, in this second period, from 2004 to 2007, privatisation was marked, precisely by privatisation of the enterprises in restructuring. So, those who have already been in a difficult situation. We're slowly coming to the conclusion that, from the remaining companies, we don't have many attractive businesses yet. We were asked here to say the number. Approximately 1,200 companies with more social capital. However, of these 1,200 companies, more than 200, between 200 and 300, could now be automatically erased by a rubber, because they don't have employees, they simply run in an economic register, otherwise they don't exist. Then, somewhere around 300 companies should be expected to get all the conditions, 300 to 400, to go bankrupt. We come up with a figure of about 500 to 600 companies that will be privatised during 2008, which is, objectively and realistically, possible because they are organised by two auctions a month in Belgrade, one in Novi Sad, which means that it can be pushed about 40-50, maximum 60 companies that will be privatised monthly. This will indeed bring about the end of this story. I want to point out a very important article of 26, which may not have been watched enough, or has missed the attention of the MPs. It is, in fact, that companies with minority social capital, 70% of that capital, social capital, will be transferred to the Action Fund, so it will not be automatically liquidated, etc. Thirty per cent will be given to employees, exactly what the MP who had previously been behind the pay phone stood for. So we have to finish this process. I say, the Constitution no longer knows social property, only one place in the Constitution mentions social property, which is that it will be transformed into other forms of property, in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14686	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Milisav Petronijevic is meaningful and good, because he asked him to protect these companies with majority social capital, which he has and that in Serbia and which are not treated by Article 26, Mr Minister, which should enter the privatisation process, i.e. to privatise themselves by the end of 2008. As counterpart Petronijevic himself said, the example is a lot. I, for the sake of correctness, will be able to mention one case for other colleagues, Serbian radicals, in order to speak of this extremely good amendment, which is the "Filip Kljajic" Galovna chain factory, Kragujevac. The Galvene chain factory "Philip Kljajic" is one of the most famous and famous factories of its kind in the Balkans and in happy times, including during NATO bombings and before that, during sanctions, the factory worked, exported to the Russian market and across Europe, contracts that had management and people who ran a successful factory. A while ago, after a lot of tensions and great labor problems, a three-part restructuring was carried out at the "Filip Kljajic" factory, on machines, tools, on storage systems and on chains, now already, in one part, well-known customers. For these others, for storage systems, it is still strange that it is an Austrian group, which is an individual from some Austrian consortium involved, through public bidding, in violation of the provisions of the applicable law. Machines, tools and storage system "Philip Kljajic" have been sold and, before that, by law, which Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic has spoken of many times, the state has done nothing, which is, otherwise, the problem you faced, Mr. Bubalo, when you were minister, to try some process of recovery, to start the process of working bankruptcy, and then, if nothing comes into fruit, to go to bidding. However, by breaking the law, the government decided that these two parts would be sold in such a way. What's left now? So I'm back to square one again. The "Philip Kljajic" factory is a galley chain factory, and the key component in that is, exactly, the chain, because machines and tools, storage systems, are not worth anything without this component, which is the production of chains. These two were sold, imagine that paradox, and the chain wasn't. So, the government's intention was to shut down the production of galley chains, because it's obvious that those who bought machines and tools and storage systems won't produce chains. They needed a move, it's an industrial zone of the town of Kragujevac, you who came, you know it's the first factory on the left side of the highway, that's Batocina-Kragujevac, an ideal place for anyone who wants to do something else, but it won't keep producing what that factory lived from, what Serbia had, and it's the former state, and how much it's used, because we could produce as much as we could carry out the gall chains, and that's the best quality factory. So what now? It's a special company. So it's not a minority social enterprise, because these two are sold, because these are like three special units registered under the new company law. Since the two-drive chain has remained, Mr. Minister, if it is not sold by the end of 2008, according to what you have now proposed, it is going into the liquidation process, the social enterprise of the chainmen, or two plants, 500 workers, or 550, which are working there, are left out of work. Some of them signed up for your call, as the previous minister, and others, resolute for the social programme, about 180 people, on offer for 10 average earnings, and nothing happens. Now, can you explain to me what kind of interest that was? You know that was a big problem for you, as the previous minister, and for the government at all. What was the interest and who came up with the idea of selling these two parts through bids, that the chainman would remain unsold and that it was now absolutely certain that no one would continue to do the production? That's how you feel about what you just said. He was a colleague of Petronijevic's right, 1,200 companies, and you say companies with social capital, i.e. nobody's and everyone's property, which no longer exists under the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are being run in a business register. Please, now is the ideal opportunity to tell us what to do with such enterprises from Kosovo and Metohija? We received letters from the Association of Businessmen from Kosovo and Metohija, from the company with social capital, asking to protect themselves, as well as private enterprises that the government automatically, two years ago, and Mrs Tabakovic, only informed them, deleted from the business register. The key question remains, what goes on with such factories, which, of course, have a future and perspective, if the state wants to stand behind them and restore production. If you don't want to, it's only fair that you say that. The workers know that, they've been waiting for months. There is no social programme promised, nothing has been done in the process of resuscitating the main part, and then it is quite certain – only lock in the lock, i.e. at the factory door. There was that old name "Philip Kljajic", from that real socialist time, and it looks so dreary. Soldiers who fought against NATO, or those whose candidate Boris Tadic was in 1999...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14688	Please, Miss Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14689	Mr. Albianic, Tadic doesn't mind that NATO is a candidate, you supported it, and you do. Are you for Euro-Atlantic integration? Yes, it is. We are not and are not at least three-quarters of Serbian citizens. Then you're in trouble, Mr. Albianic, not me, and neither is Mr. Bubalo, he's for a neutrality platform, as a member of the DSS, and so you'll know what to do, you and your members, January 20th, Mr. Bubalo, the thing is clear. Since this is a very important issue, I have gone to the insistence of the workers and those who are in the "Philip Kljajic" assembly. I've been asking that question for years. You know that's where it was supposed to be, according to Mr. Veroljub Stevanović's proposal, the incubation center, so it gave up. I want to know what the fate of the chain is, that is, the whole production of gall chains, because of that and how the city can live. These people who have applied for a social programme, which is close to retirement, if that's the government's intention and they want to accept it, that's fine, but how can we hire new ones and restore production, only if you have the will and will to do so. Since, Mr. Albianic, today you're going with congratulations, I think your obligation, as vice president, is not only to be interested in the president of your party, when he was born, where he goes and celebrates, but also to those who are worthy, hardworking, working, and MPs, your colleagues, and today are also born, congratulating your birthday. Since you have not done so, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate those who are real and educated, educated, educated, other, young music teacher, and not a trained player like Dinkic, Mr Mark Milenkovic, on my birthday, because I know that he comes from a decent environment and that the entire heroic Toplice will vote for Toma Nikolic, president of Serbia, with all her heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14690	I'm joining our colleague's birthday card. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14691	Mr. Minister, I'm going to remain at the exposition of the predecessor and your exposure, just now, in connection with the control of compliance with the contractual obligations. You're one part right, I agree with that, but I think that, however, that control must be far greater. Controls are carried out in some companies that are privatised, however, new owners may be supporters or members of the political parties that are in power. There is a risk that contractual obligations are not respected, because there is no control, there is no control of the Privatisation Agency. The SRS is from the very establishment of these agencies against them; em, which are on the budget, has a lot of employees and have no control. How many or so, the Serbian Parliament can control the resolution ministries, and who controls the agencies? The assembly and MPs cannot control them, and the agencies of the resolution ministries are working by people who are a faithful minister, because they are the same political options. That's the problem. I'll give you an example. All acts and norms have privatised an association company for five or six years and have not unblocked the account. We know you haven't been able to work for five or six years. Control was brought in by severe torment, she realized that no contractual obligations were met, she gave a six-month deadline for them to be respected, and no one came anymore. Since the deadline, it's been three years and no one has come to check whether they did it, and they haven't, because I'm quoting an example from where I come from, from Apatino. It is "Apatin Shipyard" and it is unfortunately "Vojin Lazarevic", which is privatized at the "Apatin Shipyard". I'm specifically telling you. I stand by my words, because I've spent 20 years in that company and I'm well aware of that. You yourself spoke earlier, in the past term, as the privatisation minister, as well as the complete 2000 DOS government, to advocate all acts and norms to cut deadlines for meeting these contractual obligations. These were your common views and were criticised by the system of the Payment Service, that he was slow and weak. However, this very example states that this system continues to live, that contractual obligations have not been fulfilled for many years and that not much has changed. To use these few more minutes and say something about privatisation, too. We in the SRS like to talk about the national option, and that's what we brag about. We claim that we are not the black devil, how we are characterized by those who do not love us. After all, according to Natasha, more than a third of Serbia, the electoral body is voting for us. What's wrong with the option that, in the troubled times, we're trying to defend this national identity with all our powers, in one way or another, even through privatisation? Our position on privatising strategically important enterprises is well known, as they must be privatised, because, finally, if Croats, Montenegrins, Muslims, or others can implement such a national option, why can't we also do so by Serbs. I see nothing wrong with it, and I think that this national option, which will support Serbia's integrity and improve the lives of the Serbian people, has been highlighted at this time and will be led by SRS deputy president Tomislav Nikolic on January 20th. I'm absolutely sure of it. I must inform you that tomorrow, the Parliament of the Municipality of Apatin, at its solemn session, will declare Mr Putin to be an honorary citizen of the Municipality of Apatin and that he will give up that charter on the day of the St. John's Academy. It has been confirmed that the famous Petrograd Opera, a world opera, will come to Apatin, that representatives of the Embassy of Russia will come to Serbia, with Mr. Ambassador, personally, that children from Kosovo, "Kosovo Božur", along with Ivana Zigon, will come, so I am proud of my city to declare it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14692	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14693	Mr. Chairman, your wishes are one thing, and the need is another. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly which says the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly or a resolution minister on issues raised within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials. So, I have information that local self-government minister Milan Markovic intends to, according to the script of Ruma, take power over Serbia's MUP, in the municipality of Grock, according to their representatives in the municipality of Grock, from tomorrow to the end of next week. I must say that we do not have any legal act from the Minister for Local Self-Government regarding the mentioned problem, and on the basis of the DS letter from the Municipality of Grock to his representative, Minister Markovic, that there has been an illegal process of confiscation of the mandate of one PSS committee and, accordingly, has been assigned to another PSS representative, in accordance with the needs and resignation of the party mentioned. Therefore, the letter sent by Milan Markovic to the Municipality of Grocka does not bear a sign – opinion, decision, solution. The letter was sent, and it itself claims, as an opinion based on a letter from his SO Grock committeeman, that they are legal and that these others are illegal. Accordingly, he says, in the last position, ''The stated solution shall take effect immediately. Please proceed to the transfer of power to the Municipality of Grock. '"This is a precedent for a minister who long ago failed to perform the function for which he was elected, but has subordinated his job to his party. I must say that, on the basis of this letter, SO Grock sent the material to the Minister of Resort, where, in addition to the act, it is said that we are delivering to you a request from the PSS to establish a change in the list of PSS committees, a statement by Simic Sonja on the acceptance of the candidacy, a new PSS committee, an Electoral Commission report, a report by the Mandate Commission and a conviction on the selection of SO Grock. So, as you can see, it is fully respected the procedure for replacing the mandate of one committee member in accordance with the resignation of a member of the PSS party. A day later, former councilman Aleksandar Ristic delivers a memo in the office not to waive the mandate after the final act. In that memo, he said, although he had previously claimed that he had failed to resign, and I have here proof that he resigned. He says I can't take my resignation. So he's denying himself, what he's done the day before. After all these writings and writings, Minister Markovic is trying to resolve the issue in a way that is in the interest of his party, the Democratic Party, a group they represent. It is also very important to say that SO Grocka works uninterruptedly in this conference, all services work and are available to citizens of the Municipality of Grock, so I see no reason why the minister does not respect, first of all, the Law on Local Self-Government, and then other accompanying acts that regulate such matter. I am taking this opportunity to tell the people's MPs in the Serbian Parliament that, at the last session, SO Grocka made a unanimous decision, on the proposal of the SRS council, that Vladimir Putin is an honorary citizen of the Municipality of Grocko.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14694	National MP Milan Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14695	I would like to express my special satisfaction with the fact that we are discussing this law on amendments to the Privatisation Act in front of you, as a man who has spent almost his entire working life in the economy, and we hope that you will understand our suggestions, especially when it comes to the terms that we have seen in this bill so far. Of course the privatisation process has been going on for a long time. He was through transformation, so since 2001 we have been privatising and supplementing and correcting errors, in 2003 and 2005, and finally now. It is natural and logical that many of the difficulties this country's economy has, ending the privatisation process, will be overcome. I would like to draw attention to Article 14 of the basic law, i.e. Article 4 of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. It was auctioned by different numbers, but it's almost certain that we have about 700 entities, in which there are a large number of enterprises, heterogeneous by-products, with a large number of employees, who, according to the deadline explicitly stated, are independent of the cause, unless the process for opening the tender is launched by 31.12.2008, they automatically enter the liquidation process. I think this attitude should be reconsidered. We have different objective conditions, not only because of the success and positioning of certain companies, but also because of many other causes, which could not have led to a timely privatisation. Let's just get these companies' regional schedules. Many of them are located where there are no infrastructures, roads and many other conditions to gain that market position of the economy. There are a lot of firms that have been living in them for years, dealing alongside this business, and actions that have nothing to do with basic activity, so let's say, "Jumko", "Heba", which have a large number of employees, have not simply come into position, and I'm afraid that it will be difficult to find a partner by 31.12.2008, to buy a company and give them a market opportunity. There's a world where there's been this capitalism for a long time, like ownership forms, and private and state-owned, let's get Italy, Germany, and it would be good for the government to think that, where there's a market opportunity for certain companies, it doesn't go automatically into liquidation. I'm not saying that the motion to liquidate means automatic liquidation, but to give an opportunity to, in some accelerated process, even, through the Action Fund and the participation of state capital, such companies continue to work, especially if many of them, regardless of their form of property, are currently in the process of restructuring and a lot of major problems have been solved. Col. Petronijevic noted that the amendments were proposed together with representatives of the union, so I, Article 4, submitted a proposal adding, after Article 2, a new position 3, which reads: 'In the case of the position of the 2nd member, 30 percent of the unprivitised social share of capital is transferred to employees without compensation, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2. 42 to 44 of this law. Of course, the existing item 3 becomes item 4. The amendment has not been accepted, with a reason that in the emergency liquidation procedure it is not possible to transfer unprivatised social capital to employees without compensation. I understand that, however, in 2008, it will be a sign of privatisation of state-owned public enterprises. I believe that this privatisation will go quite effectively and that this law, which is also in the procedure, on the free division of actions, will undermine the needs of those citizens who, on no basis have provided any action so far. The question is, what will happen to these companies that enter the liquidation process on 31.12? So it will be in 2009 and remains a risk of losing their right to action, as all citizens have the right to do. I am only talking about one option and therefore I ask that this be considered in, possibly, the addition, the amendment or some acceptance of amendments in another form, so that each of the citizens of Serbia in this transition process would have the right to action, as provided by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14696	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The People's Messenger Rajko Baralic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic. That we have continuity, first of all, promoters. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14697	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Minister, Mr. Albianic, good afternoon, Comrade Tomo, this is not an ideological decree. Mr Milan Nikolic's amendment, which, on behalf of the SPS, explained here, makes sense, because liquidation, except for what sounds terrible, has terrible consequences. So, liquidation is sometimes, unfortunately, just sometimes, a way to heal some firm that's been in bad shape. But it's a little welcome. Most often that is what the people would say – good news. One of the worst consequences of the liquidation is that, practically, former employees of the process come out completely decommissioned, short sleeves, to say in the jargon, in every respect. This amendment is, in fact, an attempt to ensure, as much as possible, those who could be affected by the fate of many enterprises, which otherwise happened in Serbia. I know there are different opinions here, different economic schools are going to say that this simply isn't possible, that liquidation is the most efficient procedure, that it's the instrument of the market. We can talk about it on the round table. But when you're a worker of a company like this and you're hit by this accident called liquidation, then the academic debate on this subject doesn't give anyone any positive results, but rather, it sends people to the Bureau of Employment, who exercise some rights there, which are minimal and which can't provide minimal existence. We are, by the way, a parliamentary group that did not vote for the Privatisation Act, so there is little room for our admiration for any of the solutions in this law. We believe that privatisation hit the most, precisely, employees of the worst companies. Let me say, as an illustration, that even those who were fortunate to privatise themselves in a normal procedure, not in the process where the liquidation occurred, where there were drastic layoffs of workers, that privatisation was not reciprocally followed by the incentive to open small and medium-sized enterprises, the business initiative did not live in a way that would give hope to these people who had lost their jobs, etc. Let me say, Mr. Minister, I assume you know this, these are privatized companies in the county where I live, it's Moravia County. The firm "Tavo", which privatised "Svilsline" from Gornji Milanovac, had 4,000 employees, today there are something about 1,370 people. So, no matter what we're talking about, they practically didn't exercise any rights. Then, in Chačka, the 29th November Berber Association. Why is it important? It's a small company, as important as the Belgrade-based barbershop company "November 29th", and that's what it was called, because all the clubs were in the main streets. So every barbershop was on two or three main streets; just like it was here in the terraces, so it was in Chačka. There used to be 42 employees, and now there are 11. So these people didn't regulate anything out of this. Then, the Autoservis company, from 73 to 33 employees. The "Boža Tomic" paper factory, the oldest factory in Cačka, was built 90 years ago, the oldest company in Cačka, once there were employees of 492, and now 262. Duvan had 138, and now he has 12 employees. Liptopapir used to be 438, and now it's 210, etc., so I don't keep counting. The real consequence of privatisation is, right now, the layoff of workers, or, if we don't like such a term, the reduction of the number of employees, without any chance of being employed elsewhere, where this process of liquidation will be welcomed by about 30 companies in Moravika County. It is something that no state can endure, but what the state cannot say, what the people say, born, born, they cannot survive. That's a terrible problem. Mr Milan Nikolic's amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SPS, is an attempt to make a pre-license procedure, in any way, to hope for someone who worked there to get something out of this. There will be other examples. It's a terrible picture of the state of employment. You know, Mr. Minister, Chapanese Freedom used to have 7,000 workers, and now there's a little over 1,000. The cutting tool factory in Chačka, which sold it to Douglas for "boing", you certainly know it, 1978, 1979 -- $35 million a year, and "Petolite" another 70, which was working for "boing", now has about 380 employees. It was a company that had the following status: each of their employees had a warm meal at any time of the day, which looked like soup, up to the cake, 20 days of vacation at any point in the former state, a scholarship for every student whose parent worked at the cutting tool factory. To remind you, she also imported 92 to 95% of everything she missed, so expensive steel, and you know what the program was. She managed to sell to heavy markets, such as America, but also to others, such as Arabic. It is now, practically, a monument for a time, the workers there do not receive salaries, they are fed up by all sorts of lawyers, who, for example, were charged 25 million dinars of realisation, took 21 to themselves, and now they are running a trial to show that they have deceived people. I'm not optimistic how this is gonna end. Cačak, Mr. Minister, is seventh in Serbia on average. Although your colleague minister keeps saying that he did a miracle there, I am telling you that in Moravika County, practically nothing more important is working, except what grew from the Zanatical Cooperative "Universal Cačak", as the most serious artisan cooperative in Serbia 25 years ago. These are these companies that employ 200, 300, 500 people today. I say again here, some of them haven't heard it before, I bow down to the black country to anyone who's organizing a job today to hire one man, that someone doesn't think the SPS is against anyone who's doing a decent job, but when these systems don't work, it's very hard and the kid doesn't have a chance. There are no cooperatives. You know all that. So, accept this amendment, because of what I've taken now, in Chačka, it's harder in the south and east of the country. All of this is much harder in some of the municipalities of Banat, much harder in our immediate environment, here in Belgrade, you know that yourself. After all, you were followed here, as you would say in my village, your portfolio is second, but you were minister in that government for these matters, and here is your business trade and tourism. So, it would be better if some others came, if we asked something more specific, because, what if this doesn't move from the dead spot, it's a waste of what we're talking about. One third of our current budget, practically, is the means of privatisation. We're wasting substance in consumption. When this goes by, I don't know how to design a budget for, for example, 2011, or in 2012. Accept this amendment, you will not blame anyone, and you will give hope to 150,000 people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14698	The word is from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the debate on this proposal is extremely interesting, so a large number of MPs are reporting for discussion, and we are getting a number of calls from citizens who, tired of this privatisation of yours over the past seven years, have come to say a word about their problems as well. Since I haven't had time to report on Mr Martinovic's and Mr Buha's amendments to article 3 of this proposal, I will now, with an apology to you, return to Article 3. Proposal for a law relating to Article 12 of the basic law. This Article 12 speaks of a right which may have a potential buyer, or who may be a potential buyer of capital and property, and who cannot be a buyer of capital and property in the privatisation process. Paragraph 3 states that the buyer of capital or property cannot be: the 1st domestic legal person who operates with the majority social capital, which is logical; the 2nd natural person, the legal person and the founder of the legal person who, according to the privatization entity, has reached unsettled obligations, which is also logical; the 3rd natural person, the legal person and the founder of the legal person with whom the privatisation contract has been terminated, which is logical; 4th and this is the newspaper that has been pompously announced these days in the media, that this cannot be a natural person who is convicted or against whom the next criminal act is being conducted, so that the tax is listed crimes which are considered difficult in the case of buying capital or property in the privatisation process. I should say that this could have been resolved much simpler, so to speak, all persons who are sentenced to a certain time sentence cannot be customers, but this is not the subject of my coming out here. Namely, by reading this proposal for the first time, and before the end of Article 3 I asked myself a question – what about the founders of legal persons, are those legal persons whose founders are convicted or are being prosecuted against them can be buyers of property or capital? Then I found the answer in the final position of the third member, where it says that the buyer of capital or property cannot be even a company in which the person referred to in point 2. It considers this member to be a control member or a control shareholder within the meaning of the laws governing companies. If you look at the Business Society Act, it does not say that the control member or control shareholder is the person who has 50%, or more than 50% of the shares or voting rights in society. Now I'm asking one logical question and I'd like to get an answer right away, if possible. Does this mean that, according to these amendments to the Law, a buyer of assets and capital can be a legal person in which one of the founders, for example, a co-owner, with less than 50%, is convicted of criminal acts or is being held against him? Under this law, it can. Personally, I think, the SRS Parliamentary Group, too, that this is not good, that we will have in practice many such cases, that there will be an agreement between the co-owners of a company, or it does not matter what a company, one of which is not meeting the conditions of this law, the other meets them, and it is allegedly a majority owner, and they will agree, so they will participate in privatisation, to buy a company. In this way, someone who is also convicted of serious crimes will be co-owner of a legal entity with less than 50%, which can also be 49%, in a position to be a buyer in the privatisation process. We don't think this is good. Unfortunately, we haven't submitted an amendment to this, but it should be intervened here while the motionary can do so. Here, on one occasion, let me explain it plastically. Let's say that a certain Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic is one of the founders of a legal person called "Eki Invest" and that he owns 51% of capital, and that the other partner owns 49% of capital, that the other is convicted of criminal acts or is being held against him. This legal entity, under this law, can participate in privatisation and buy enterprises, i.e. capital and property in the privatisation process. That's what this law says. What it looks like, and that similarity is not random, but intentional, here, in the case of “New Home. ” The company "New Home" was privatised a year ago. He bought it with a consortium of three legal entities, one of which is “Eki Investment’ d.o.o. The "New Home" was sold for 17 million euros less than a year ago. What was owned by "New Home", I wouldn't speak individually now, it exists in the contract. What's going on? After less than a year, this consortium demands that the Privatisation Agency agree to alienate part of the property, although it could not do so by law. Of course, since the director of the agency is a party friend, I think Mrs. Vesna Djindjic is now the director of the Agency, she gives consent and now a facility is being sold, and that is the factory, the only production facility "New Home", a factory on Vozdovac, at 8.5m euros. So all other capital, all other facilities, which are more in Belgrade and in almost all the cities of Serbia, and at the best locations, remain for the 8.5m euros left when this is sold. Under the contract, this consortium, i.e. owners, was to invest around 3m euros in the "New Home" to build production facilities and adapt sales space. Now the logical question is asked – if they had an obligation, by contract, to invest in the construction of the production plant, why sell the existing production plant? Second question. According to their elaborat, the existing production plant, the former factory "20. October" was the worst part of the company, she was dealing with losses, and suddenly she received half the total amount for which the entire company was bought. How can such a bad factory set such a good price on the market, or how the total capital sold is so little, just 17 million euros? The question is also raised – what about workers employed at the factory "October 21st"? Where are they in all this? This is just one of the examples that there are as many privatisations in Serbia, over 2,000 of these examples in Serbia, that someone deliberately underestimated the value of the assets being sold, so that, again, someone else would take it for small money, at the expense of this country, to the detriment of those who have earned it for decades, and they have lost their jobs today, without any income. The story of statistics has been deplaced, Mr. Vujadinović, that, statistically, the salary is much higher than it was seven years ago, because you know that Vibova - statistics - our dick, what he wants, paints it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14700	Mr. Jovanovic, I would like to ask you to leave three minutes for your colleague, the government of Seculic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14701	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, for your suggestions. A few more sentences and I'll be done. Mr. Vujadinovicu, if we take the director of NIS to receive a salary of 7000 euros, in order to reach an average of 300 euros, on the other hand we should have 30 workers with 100 euros in earnings, and those in Serbia are hundreds of thousands, which have 100, or less than 100 euros in earnings. A few days ago, I read in the daily press that in Serbia, nearly 400,000 pensioners receive less than 8,600 dinars. Is anyone thinking about it? It's nice to have a friend or a party colleague at the head of the ministry, or head of the Privatisation Agency, or head of some capital assessment house, so all of this gets tied up, put together for small money buys businesses, buys capital, and then you're a gentleman. What about people who have nothing to live on in this country? It's the most. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14702	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14703	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Albianic, I know you're in a hurry to celebrate Mr. Dinkic's birthday, they'll leave you the cake. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in connection with Article 4. I wanted to tell Mr. Bubal that if we accepted the amendments of Mr. Nikolic, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Zeljko Vasiljevic, we would see that it was sublimated and all well done by the promoter. Your explanation of the privatisation of non-privatised social capital – a public call for participation in a public tender, i.e. at a public auction, must be made no later than 31 December 2008. It says here it has to be published. In addition, the second position of that member states that, if a public call is not issued within the time limit set out in Article 1 of this Article, the Agency shall adopt a decision to launch an emergency liquidation of the privatisation entity, in the following text: liquidation. If it says something has to be done, why do you allow a spare variant, space that someone can manipulate? Liquidation in the Serbian dictionary is a very harsh word. Liquidation is, literally, murder, shooting and everything else, shutting down something. It puts here that you, automatically, all companies that have failed to meet the conditions for privatisation, or that three times enter the tender and have no interest in them, will immediately be liquidated. You're not showing any desire for the economy to be strengthened, to have the economy start or that these companies, through some injection, which would be financial or otherwise, go for better, so they'll be interested. And you said yourself that all the companies that were good, they were solvent, they were already sold, and the rest of these companies are going to be hard to sell. Mr Nikolic's proposal does not mean anything shameful in our economy, that 30% of the assets and shares are shared. You know, the Privatisation Act was perhaps the best law when the SRS participated in that government, because 60% went to free workers, 30% went to the second round of sales and 10% went to the fund. They were all calmed down in that part. Here all MPs who have submitted the amendments have shown you that it is not the ultimate purpose of the liquidation, but is the ultimate purpose of improving the economy. Mr. Minister, I'll take this short notice. We talked about these successful companies. "Elvod" was an extremely successful firm, in 2005 – 280 million profits, in 2006 – 80 million and then bought Mr. Zabunović, the one who got confused and entered Customs and picked up everything he could pick up. He opens the company "Minel General Electric", sends workers on an emergency vacation for 45 days, which the law allows him to, and under the new law you can declare 10% a technological surplus, without an explanation. For all over 10%, you have to do a social program. Since many do not understand what our future president, Tomislav Nikolic, has said, many here have not hit the factory gate in the back, so they do not know what production or production activity is. To continue, although he failed to fulfil his obligations to the Agency, he failed to fulfil his obligations on December 5th, when he was due to meet all his obligations, he today threatens workers. Today, workers have entered the circle of the factory, they are minority shareholders, which we very little have, and he threatens them with militias. Knowing him, people are afraid of what's gonna happen. Please check that situation. But when the right man comes to the right place on January 20th, it is Tomislav Nikolic for the president of Serbia, a man who knows what production is and knows that he appreciates workers, intellectuals, youth, all structures, pensioners, we will see how much privatisation will come out. We still have a lot of examples, but we'll do it tomorrow. I urge all citizens, workers, intellectuals to vote with all their hearts for Tomislav Nikolic, for the future of Serbia and for the victory of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14704	National MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Very short, Mr. Vujadinovica, not more than one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If out of 2,000 privatisations, practically, each carried abuse, then why have we abolished social property, why have we abolished it in the Constitution? You can't make a rule out of exceptions. If we say something was sold for three euros, why hasn't someone shown up to buy four euros? If something was bought for three euros, it was bought for 10 million debts, plus three euros. We have to figure that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14706	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) Messenger of the People Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. But it's six o'clock, Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14707	Mr. Albianic, please protect the dignity of the National Assembly and tell the predecessor that he cannot defend what is indefensible. Why is social property abolished in the Constitution? Because you previously completely robbed, past the Constitution. When did the Constitutional Court annul any privatisation, and the law said that social property must be privatized? Secondly, did the CK building have millions of debts? How much did you sell it to MK Komerts? Did cementers have millions of debts? After you sold them? You've made the biggest robberies in this country's history. You're talking about social property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-20-0.u14708	We're out of time. We have reached an amendment to the 4th National MP Zdravko Topalovic. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00.
