ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12046	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Meho Omerović, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dejan Perjanic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic (the follow-up in particular) was submitted to Article 9 of the amendment by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. Please, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12047	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will quote first Article 115. The Constitution. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to pay some attention to this amendment, not because I filed it and that it's very important to us, but because I think it's essential. I'll quote the Constitution, so please don't count me this time. Incompatibility of functions, Article 115. The Constitution: 'The President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity'. Article 9 of this Act is the prescribed Article 115. The Constitution. Why are we passing the law if we don't have the strength to go one step further in defining the incompatibility of functions with the function of the President of the Republic? Is this law written to go a step further in the development of democracy, the regulation of political relations in our country, or to go a step backwards in relation to those rules governing political life in Serbia since the introduction of multilaterals since 1990? Who was this law written for? Is it written to regulate the institution of the President of the Republic or to regulate the position of a particular person believed to be the President of the Republic? It is totally unacceptable to be a member of the 9th proposed law on the President of the Republic. The character of functions that are incompatible with the function of the President of the Republic must be defined very precisely. That is why we have written an amendment correcting Article 9 and saying that the role of President of the Republic is incompatible with the role of party president or any other party function. When we talk about the incompatibility of the functions of the President of the Republic, then we are not thinking about Boris Tadic or Tomislav Nikolic or any presidential candidate and president in the future, but about the fact that the President of the Republic plays a certain role in our public, social life and that this role is compromised if he is a divided person and if our society is to arbitration. When does the President of the Republic address society as President of the Republic, and when does he speak as President of the Party? Mr. Markovic, there are unacceptable arguments that you have made justifying such a legal solution. You mentioned sociological facts, you mentioned political reality, and you criticized the idea that we should agree to some kind of political hideout. Simply, if the president is president, it should be regardless of the importance of the function that follows him. You also mentioned parallel practice. I urge you to find a country where the President of the Republic is also president of the party. It's not even Pervez Musharaf anymore, who realized he couldn't be the general and the president, so he had to back down. We suggest that, although the Government did not have the strength to accept this amendment, because the government functions in accordance with mutual interests and blackmails used as a instrument of protection and achievement of these interests rather than in accordance with the democratic needs of this country, that you accept this amendment or say that this law is written for a particular person and for one party, so that we know what we are on. If you wrote the law for one party, one person, then we don't want to discuss this amendment because, in that case, the law is great. But this is not the law Serbia needs. It is logical that their ambition in the country's political life is highlighted by the most prominent political figures and run in elections for the president of the Republic, but after that, and it is a democratic practice in organised countries, the party's president withdraws from his party post and functions as president of the Republic. The explanation that one party has no one else who could be acceptable to it and its needs served by the President of the Republic as party president is not something we can agree on. Or we will bring this country into order, confront the violence that the crisis in this country deepens, among other things, because you, by this legal solution, are jeopardizing the institution of the President of the Republic... As incredible as it may be to you, in this case Boris Tadic, the only institution with democratic legitimacy, since this parliament, ignoring some of its constitutional obligations, has disputed its legitimacy. That is why you come out to meet us, accept this amendment and allow Boris Tadic to be what he really wants, which is the President of the Republic, and release him from the obligation to be party president because in this unnatural relationship he is the victim of both functions and other functions, as well as our society. There is no normal country in which the president of the republic simultaneously serves as party president, and there are many examples that, by election and victory in the elections, the president of the republic is withdrawing from party office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12048	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, we've been counting for five and a half minutes, we refused a minute to quote. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12049	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I'm asking MPs for a little quiet. I want to congratulate all MPs on the day of the Republic since you are discussing today the law on the election of the President of the Republic. That, by the way, would not be possible if one important date, such as this, had not been decided that there was no more monarchy. As used to be said, there was no such thing as a dungeon of the people. That's what you've agreed to adopt and the last constitution, so there's no reason to object. To all people in Serbia who respect this date (we certainly respect it) I congratulate today's holiday and I want to say, and I will also talk about it when the budget is adopted, that although our state is a republic, you are in the budget providing funds to function the court and king, who is otherwise a massive and English subject and officer. So, we'll talk about it when the time comes, and today, once again, I congratulate all sincere Republicans on the Day of the Republic and I want the day to come when we're going to celebrate the holiday of the Republic. It won't be that long, we'll wait until the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12050	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. The word has a folk letter, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, according to the amendment. I'm asking MPs for a little quiet. I understand the excitement of this important part of the agenda, but I'd like to ask you for a little quiet. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12051	Dear People's MPs, MPs, if the amendment tabled by Cedomir Jovanovic, or others who have submitted an amendment to exclude the possibility of the President of the Republic being both party president, then I think the Assembly has once again settled in the collapse of all the institutions that we are to build here. We have brought down the Constitutional Court, and now we need to bring down the institution of the President of the Republic. Mr. Minister, please pay attention to what I'm saying. Excuse me, please, I want to make an argument and don't talk on the side while I'm talking. (President: Please, gentlemen of Parliament, allow Mrs Pesic to speak. We'll get the time back. ) First of all, I would like to ask the question: What is a public function in the first place? If under public office it were to be understood, as this law appears to be interpreted, only another state function, and none other is a public function, then it would be absurd for the President of the Republic to be a minister at the same time or to take another state function. So, what's a public function? Are these just state functions in the narrow sense of words, or are they functions like, say, the president of FK Partizan, president of an important NGO, president of the EPS Management Board...? Are these public functions or not public functions, what does that belong to? If these aren't public functions, could the President of the Republic be the president of an NGO or president of a football club? If it's just a state function, it's absurd to even mention it because it's self-exclusive. So first we should see what the definition of public functions is. Secondly, I would point out what you said in Polygraph, when you were asked the first question, precisely about the relationship between party and presidential functions, that it is a question of the will of every president, as a sociological fact, means that anyone can decide whether or not to retain the role of party president. I need to teach you something from sociology right now. You see, back in the course of deep titoism, you'll remember people who have more age, campaigns for so-called. deaccumulation function. In sociology, it is known that cumulation of functions means cumulation of power, and then it is forbidden that one person accumulates a larger number of functions that carry a certain social weight and a certain social power. If these functions are accumulated, then that state function pulls on non-transparent power. And we're free of that function here by law now we're trying to limit it if it drags behind it non-transparent power that isn't regulated by law. And if that were the case, let's look at the sociological fact that we have. Do all of our political system theorists talk about partocrats or so on in Serbia? Party state? Well, we've done it for this pay phone, from all parties, a thousand times. Is that so under the Constitution? Has the Venice Commission resented the practical party's mandates? Please, we have a proportionate electoral system, and especially in a situation where all parties are leaders, where they are authoritarianly organised, the president determines who will be the MP, he determines which MP will have to freely put his mandate at his disposal. You also have a political party in the Constitution that determines, shapes the will of the voters. See Article 102, where the political parties are given the same role. And now let's not say that it's a political party that determines who's going to be party president in the first place, who's going to be on board, so who's even going to be in the Constitutional Court, who's going to run the media, that's all for the head of the party. And it's no public function for you and it's not a cumulation of power. If such a cumulation of the role of party president and president of the state is permitted, that means that it will not represent state unity but will, in fact, carry out the unity of power by its party function by having an impact on the Constitutional Court. We have seen that the whole problem with the collapse of the constitutional concept is that the president proposes candidates for the Constitutional Court. That combination falls the moment he's head of the party. That's where we had our biggest problem. If indeed the president wouldn't be party chief, then it's normal for him to propose a Constitutional Court, but we've seen, if he's also the party's head, that we've made the Constitutional Court as a coalition of two or three parties. So that, through this function that carries a huge amount of power, and this to Serbian society and citizens is not a vague and unknown thing, that the head of the party has more power than any other state function – everyone sitting here, from any party, whether DSS, DSS or LDP, does not matter, they all know very well – means, through this function, intransparency pulls power and we are free of this whole discussion about the president if we allow the accumulation of functions in this matter. Not only is the president, as part of the executive power, controlling the judicial authority, I have shown how and we have seen here at work, but at the same time he controls, as you can see, other parts of the executive government. Who does the coalition deal with when it comes to crisis, with whom is it arranged to overcome these conflicts? Well, Boris Tadic, as party president, and the other party president, or Prime Minister Kostunica. So, is our future head of state going to deal with these things that, as president, he's going to tarabana, negotiate, beat up businesses, split up municipalities and go to local campaigns? Not to tell you that in any civilized state, Mexico, which is indeed a country in transition, which is not a model democratic country but is trying to become, of course, that President Fox couldn't be party president, believe that neither in Guatemala nor in Honduras. I hope it won't be possible in Serbia either. It really doesn't matter who the president is, but if the president of the political party is not a public function and if any president who is elected now and in the future allows himself to be able and benefit from such a legal provision, to carry out such a cumulation of power, and, finally, as you can see, in his function accumulates both legislative and executive and judicial power through political function, and to strengthen the party state, instead of trying to make a democratic state, then indeed Serbia will not be helped. I ask that this amendment be adopted because we really do attend that two processes are happening in this society. If our courts really succeed in certain situations in order to achieve some kind of success, then a criminal like the Legion is sentenced to 40 years, and who is defended by most of the tabloids and media here, then everything seems to fall. So, on the one hand, this state is using secret channels to tear down institutions that are being built, and on the other hand, we here, in Parliament, are preventing them from forming at all. If you allow the institution of the President of the Republic to collapse like this, know that you have brought down another institution, and I will say something that may not matter. The first thing I personally said to President Boris Tadic, whom I have known as my fellow for democracy since the early 1980s, was: how can you hold both the head office in the party and be president of the Republic? He really didn't have an answer to that. It's nice, fine, it has sweetened power, so we'll accumulate power and control all the areas of power and through this party function make the unity of power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12052	I thank the People's Parliament to Mrs. Vesni Pesic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. LDP's got three minutes left. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12053	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you to, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the work of parliament, under which the MP has the right to ask for an explanation between himself and the government minister, give his definition of public office. You may be able to help us with this, perhaps after that we will be able to agree with you, because we think it is important to agree on such a large issue as the character of the President of the Republic and its function in our society. It would be really bad for the President of the Republic to be, I repeat once again, a divided personality and that at the same time we, as a parliament, do nothing to help him perform a function that is so important and important. I think the argument that we've made so far has been very clear and precise. The President of the Republic is a symbol of this country. Of course, the President of the Republic comes to that position with the support of the majority of voters who voted in the elections, not by absolute support, not by the support of every man in this country, but, as president of the Republic, given their constitutional obligations, he runs that kind of policy that cares about the interests of every Serbian citizen, whether they voted for him or not. Its function is such, and this function is derivated by insisting on the preservation of party functions. This is, on the one hand, proof of the uncertainty of a person who needs that kind of party justification. On the other hand, it is proof of the incompetence of that part of our political life that rests on the parties, who are paralysing on an institution they, as a party, do not have the right, because then the law would be arranged for the president to act as president of the Republic. Give us a definition of public function, let us see what it is – whether under public function there is a humanitarian action, whether it involves action within the system of government, so it is an incompatible function of the President of the Republic with the function of the Prime Minister, or what we, as party officials, as party presidents, heads of Parliament groups, as members of the main committee and chair, are also considered a public function, because everything that the parties do is actually aimed at the public and party interpretation of public or public interest to which the party addresses. We are experiencing our parliamentary functions publicly, but it would be good for you to help us and tell us what a public function is that is incompatible with the function of the President of the Republic by telling us the character of this public function.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12054	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and then MP Milisav Petronijevic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as amendments by MP Cedomir Jovanovic are concerned, the practice in democratic countries is twofold. In some countries, when someone is elected president of the Republic or another important state office, he resigns from the political party. One example of such practice is Great Britain. An MP at the British Parliament's House of Commons, when elected speaker, or president of the Lower House, resigns in office in his political party. In some other countries, such a practice does not exist, so the one elected to a certain state function remains, if it wishes, a function in the political party. What the problem is about this amendment is the reasoning given by the Serbian government why it does not accept the amendment. Otherwise, the argument is almost identical when it comes to the amendment of MP Cedomir Jovanovic and when it comes to the amendment of MP Miletic Mihajlovic. It is said in the explanation: ''Because the function in the political party is not a public function, the proposed amendment changes the constitutional position of the President of the Republic. That's why the amendment isn't accepted. Otherwise, this formulation that the amendment is not accepted is in two places. In the beginning, it is said, "Amendment is not accepted" and eventually it is said, "That is why the amendment is not accepted." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind the motion of this law on the provision of Article 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens is guaranteed." It is truly incomprehensible that the function of a political party, as proposed by the law, is not a public function. Unlike the public, it's private. I really don't know if there is anyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if there is anyone involved in politics in Serbia, that they can say that a function in the political party is some kind of private function. Political parties are not secret societies. Political parties are not masseous. Political parties are registered with the competent ministry. These registers are public books and copies from these registers are public documents. Political parties are funded from the state budget. Political parties have an obligation to submit reports on how they spent state money in the election campaign. Political parties are the ones who give candidates for the highest state functions: for the role of the President of the Republic, for the role of Prime Minister, for ministers, for the President of the National Assembly. Political parties are the ones who run people for functions at the level of autonomous province, at the level of local self-government. A democratic life cannot be imagined in a country governed by the principle of multilateral parliamentary democracy without political parties. And then, in 2007, seven years since the alleged introduction of real and true democracy into Serbia, we hear an explanation from the same, allegedly democratic government, that political parties are not public organisations and that the function in the political party is not a public function. The same Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, as far as I know, as I read something on the subject, wrote specifics in the Encyclopaedia of Political Culture on political parties, stressing their public character, the role in the formation of the democratic and political will of citizens, saying that the permission of more political parties is a guarantee for a true democratic society, and then we meet with a paradoxical explanation – that the function in the political party is not a public function. I can only assume what's causing such an argument. Fathers, the founders of democracy in Serbia are, in fact, former communists. When they stay with themselves, in a state of some political intimacy, they probably still have such warm feelings about Marks and Lenin and Joseph Broz and Cardell. In no way can the idea that there is no democratic society without political parties be inserted into their mental set. Somehow, she continues to implement the syntagma of Joseph Broz's time that there can be some unpartisan democracy, that society can be democratically arranged, but what will we have political parties, possibly be one ruling political party, possibly some other political organisation that is not a classical political party (as it was called, the Socialist Union), and then these two organisations will be in one great love, cohabitation and there is democracy. It's kind of like the explanation given by the Serbian government. The government could say much simpler: there is a practice in certain democratic states that when a citizen is elected to an important state office, he does not have to resign in his political party. And such an explanation would be both found and understood and logical. And it would be true, after all. So, the argument that a political party function is not a public function is, in a way, a political scandal. Does that mean that all of us sitting here are sitting on some private ground? Is the National Assembly a private set of citizens, or is it an institution that cannot be more public? There is no institution whose public work is provided to a greater extent than the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are sitting. The MPs are representatives of certain political parties. People from political parties, especially officials, appear in the media, shape the political awareness of citizens, shape their electoral will. The political parties depend largely on how citizens will define themselves in the elections. Political parties are the ones that define ideology. People either accept that ideology or accept the ideology of another party. And then we meet with an explanation where the government says that political parties are some private organisation and function in political parties is some kind of private function. I really don't know, Mr. Minister, if you've read that explanation, if the people who wrote that argument know what they're talking about. I can't understand, I can't understand, despite your best wishes, that you place political parties in some sphere of privacy, in some sphere that isn't public. It is only one step, believe me, if theoretically observed, that political parties in Serbia are banned, i.e. to ban political parties that do not correspond to the ruling coalition. We have, and today we have, an attempt by some minor political parties, above all LSV, to ban the SRS, so – when we cannot defeat the radicals in the elections, when we can do nothing against the fact that most of the people of Vojvodina are just backing the SRS, then let's ban a political party called the SRS and thus remove it from political competition. Believe me, there's only one step to that move. The declaration of political parties to private organisations and functions in political parties to private functions is, in fact, an attack on democracy in Serbia and is, in fact, an attack on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that guarantees the role of political parties in forming the political will of citizens. The 1990 constitution did not explicitly define political parties. So there was no explicit constitutional norm that guaranteed the important role of political parties in a democratic society that Serbia should be. But even then there was one assumption, simply, that no one questioned that fact, that without political parties there was no democracy. Then, in the new 2006 Constitution, it is explicitly written that political parties and without which there is no democracy in Serbia and then, just a year later, we get the government's explanation that the function in the political party is not a public function. Mr Minister, I would really like you to go out for this speaker and explain to us: if the function in the political party is not a public function – what it is, is it perhaps private, and what it is, in fact, for this existing Serbian government, the concept of public, what the concept of democratic and how the current Serbian government defines the role of political parties in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12056	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this is an interesting question, it's a political question. Obviously, in our terms, it is very skillfully used for political purposes. The government's explanation went one way and I'll say why I think it's right, but I agree with Mr Martinovic, there could have been a second argument of the government, where it would simply be said that in many democratic states the world is not at all a practice of resigning. As far as I know, from what I know and what I learned right in England, I didn't know about this case for a speaker, but I do know for example that the leader of the opposition party becomes Prime Minister and that he does not resign as his party leader. We've had a chance to watch Tony Blair, and we'll probably watch Gordon Brown explain his policy before the convention. I think it would be a good idea for the government's explanation to include some of the arguments you've given here. Where do I disagree with you? Although that sounds a little ghastly, especially for laymen, but I honestly don't think a function in a political party is a public function in the narrow sense of words. When I say in a narrow sense, I shall state the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which I think have affected the essence of public functions, which say that it is considered a public function to be the person chosen, placed or appointed in the bodies of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, the city of Belgrade, municipalities and other cities, or in bodies of public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia, etc. In that sense, within our legal system, I don't think there's any basis for claiming that a function in a political party is a public function. On the other hand, it is undeniable that political parties in both Serbia and other democratic states are a pillar of political life. In that sense, we can hold a political debate on whether the law should be as proposed or as proposed by the amendment. It seems to me that what I have stated about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, part of the argument that you yourself have made, and as far as other countries are concerned, I don't think that Nikola Sarkozy has resigned either and will not resign as the leader of his party UNP or as it is already called – so, if we open a real debate now whether something is a public function or not a public function, I don't think that the forms of association of citizens in NGOs, various options of association of citizens, or even political organisations, can be considered a public function. I really think these are private rights matters. At least that's how they are defined under the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I'm telling you how they define themselves. So this is indeed a political issue of a couple of excellencies, but legally observed, I cannot agree that the function in the political party is a public function. I want to point out something else. A colleague, Martinovic, set an example of the Speaker of the Lower House of the English Parliament. I thank you, the example is good, many here didn't know it, and I didn't really know it. But if we accept the political position that a function in a political party is a public function, we would have to build it into the core of our system, and say, "You can't be mayor in a political party because he's the mayor, the leader of those citizens in that city." Then we have to be consistent and do it from top to bottom, not that, when only the name appears... Then we say, "Let's introduce that practice now." In any case, I don't think Serbia can go much further than other democratic countries. I mentioned England, I mentioned France. I think I've given the right examples. I guess there's more. I suppose there are MPs here who know more examples, but they don't have to take them out now. And I don't think we have to go out of it. I don't think a political party function is a public function in the context of our regulation. That is why I don't think the amendment proposed by Cedomir Jovanovic should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12058	I thank the minister. The word has a national emissary, Milena Stankovic. He leaves a word to the MP of the people, Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Then Slobodan Maras, according to the Business, followed by Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Business, followed by Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12059	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've come out without any papers. I'm shocked by your ignorance. It's sad, it's not funny. Do you know the difference between the English Parliament's speaker, Nikola Sarkozy and Boris Tadic? The Speaker of the English Parliament becomes a parliamentary majority behind you and it is a gesture of civilization culture, not even democratic. Nikola Sarkozy was a candidate, he is not party president and is not engaged in any party function. You're telling us about some democratic role models. What democratic role model? What are you building your view of democracy on when you tell us that you do not experience a party function publicly and compare it with public enterprises, quote the Law on conflict of interest? So, is the story of Kosovo a private story? Are the parties dealing with the public problems of this society or private? Say one country in which either the law or the general social rules are not regulated as we propose to settle the amendment. You're telling us here now that we're doing it because we're thinking of a particular person. We think of an institution, and this institution is threatened by the selfish interests of one particular person and one party and one government that rests on internal selfishness, so it is served day by day. The state and its internal architecture are not divided as public enterprises are shared. In which division has the map fallen to the table so that the President of the Republic can be the party president at the same time? Is it in which the EPS and NIS are divided, or in which the Constitutional Court is divided, or in which the State Auditing Institution is divided – in which it is divided? Macedonia -- the party's president wins the election, withdraws from the party, resigns as president of the party, performs his post as president of the state; Croatia – the president withdraws from the party, performs the role of President of the Republic; Slovenia; in Hungary it is elected in parliament, it is a different choice, but the rules are identical. Somewhere it's regulated by law, in transition countries, it's mostly regulated by law, somewhere it's a rule that's undeniable, and it's not being derailed at all. You're here to tell us about the speaker of the English Parliament, about the pearl with the wig, and compare it with Boris Tadic. Well, that's funny. We are doing this because we want to have institutions in this society that will be able to solve the problems that have created in this country deformed institutions that have dealt exclusively with their private interests. That is why we insist on this simple explanation of the public function. Come on, tell me what a public function is. And how is it possible that, as MPs, here, in Parliament, at this point, now, as we discuss, we are not doing business of public interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12060	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The word is from Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12061	I really don't understand why you're yelling. I tried to explain my position. You asked me to give a definition of public function. I gave it almost literally as it says in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. You ask me to do it again. I'll tell you again. It is a public function to which it comes through the appointment, appointment or election of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, the city of Belgrade, municipalities and other cities, or the one whose founder this is. In that sense, here, I'm going to tell you, you are in public office just because you're a MP, you came by choice by citizens, etc. I don't know what you're talking to me about when I tell you, and now you're asking me the same thing again. As for the speaker of the English Parliament, I just wanted to point out, the gentleman mentioned an example that goes in favor of you, and I mentioned an example of the Labour leader and Prime Minister Gordon Brown who did not resign. There, I'm just giving that example. You gave me an example of Macedonia -- I don't know if that's the case in Macedonia, here, I believe you. We now have an example of Macedonia, England, Hungary – well, we have different examples. I explained to you what a public function is, I referred to what practice is, so we have different practices in democratic countries, I told you – if we are to do so, let's be consistent, so we can implement it throughout our legal system. I also told you that I don't think it's possible in our terms to implement it, nor do I think it's necessary to implement it. When I was visiting that show you are calling for, I also said that in Serbia many years ahead, it will depend on the behaviour of individuals who are in certain public functions. In that sense, I think the President of the Republic is very correct and has never misused that function for party purposes, such as the presidents used to abuse that function for party purposes. And I also told you that no matter what the law says, someone can abuse their function if it is prone to abuse. I see no reason to speak with such bitterness about the Democratic Party, at least not you who were its vice president at the time. It's just that you surprised me. And whether I have knowledge or have no knowledge - what to do, you tell me here mostly from the pay phone: the minister does not know, the minister does not know. I've come to terms with not knowing. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12062	I thank Minister Markovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. You give the word to Cedomir Jovanovic? Then National MP Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Business, and Aleksandar Martinović, a replica, and Laslo Varga. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12063	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you see as some kind of revolt towards the DS is a matter of your impression. I think you insult DS MPs as well as everyone else with your insincere and inconclusive argument. Use the argument of an SRS MP, which is not in favor of you. For example, you are calling on the prime minister of the English government, and we are not talking about the Prime Minister, we are not asking Vojislav Kostunica to resign as party president. It is natural for the party's leader, the voter who won the election, to be Prime Minister. We're talking about something else. The roles of the Prime Minister and the President of the State are not the same. You quoted the Law of Conflict of Interest because this law defines conflict of two public interests or public functions. Does he know who wrote the Law of Conflict of Interest that this law regulates the character of the President of the Republic or is something else the purpose of that law? You have a Constitution, where article 6 says, I've been quoting it recently to your party colleagues: "No one can perform a state or public function... '". Do not interfere with the state and public function. You have to understand that first. In the next election, how will the president of the state behave? When will he speak as president of the state and when as bearer of his party's electoral list? Well, in Georgia, the president of the state resigned as president so he could run the campaign at all. We've given you so many examples. We ask you to be honest and say: the political relations in this country are such that the parliamentary majority that exists today, which formulates power and defines our everyday life, is behind a decision that is so. Do not seek the legal basis of that decision, and do not offer us an explanation by which the amendment is unacceptable, because the party function is not a public function. By that definition, you directly confronted the party with the Law on Conflict of Interest, since by its character the party exists to deal with public interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12064	I thank MP Cedomir Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic, then a replica of the National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. And then, hopefully, we'll continue to discuss the amendments. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12065	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I call on the members of 225th and 226th and request the necessary notice so that we can continue the story concerning this amendment. Otherwise, similar, almost the same amendment to Article 9. The draft law on the President of the Republic was also submitted by SPS MP Miletic Mihajlovic and we will have plenty of time to deal with this member of the law. Apparently, the proposer has made a law in the light of Mr Tadic, and the opposition is making every effort to defend the institution of the President of the Republic, not Tadic. I wanted to say that we will still appear and express our position – why do we think that someone cannot express state unity in the morning and share Serbia in the afternoon. Here's a question for you, Mr. Minister, next. You are now persistently explaining, and if we agree or disagree, that the function in the political party is not a public function. We say: well, we disagree with that, but we propose, in the amendment, to add that it cannot be a party function. You then answer in the following way: the amendment cannot be accepted – please listen to the formulation because the essence of my question is precisely that – 'The proposed amendment changes the constitutional position of the President of the Republic'. Please, Mr. Minister, explain, so that we can continue the debate: how does this change the constitutional position of the President of the Republic if the President of the Republic elected again, do not look at yours, resign from office in the party? What has changed the constitutional position of the President of the Republic? Poor constitutional position. So it's very important to answer this question so we can move on. Otherwise, we'll have more to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12066	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Mr. Marash, please wait a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12067	I understand what Mr. Petronijevic wanted to say. In an explanation, when the government said the constitutional position, it wanted to say that it was changing in terms of what the Constitution found to be incompatible functions, and nothing else. So this article 115. The Constitution—only that, nothing further than that. By adding in Article 9 of the Law proposal to Article 2 that it is subject to that regime which provides for the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, only so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12068	Thank you. The first word is Aleksandar Martinović, then Laslo Varga, then Slobodan Maras, and Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today witnessing that the Latin saying is true that the greatest hatred among those who have ever been in the greatest love. I don't want to get into the essence of this divorce case between DS and LDP at all, but I want to say this. When you write an explanation of the bill, then that formal logic must function impeccably. Unlike the public, it's private. There is no third category between public and private. So either political parties are public organisations or they're private. Either a function in political parties is a public function or a private function. The third solution, by logic, is gone. It is truly unacceptable for me that the function in the political party is a private function. I don't think anyone who seriously thinks about democracy and the role of political parties in a democratic society can accept it. As for the argument made by the minister, that there are also NGOs, associations of citizens, etc., Mr. Minister, there is a big difference between the political party and some NGOs. It cannot be compared to a political party with a fishing association or a chess club. Because the political party participates in the election match, NGOs do not participate. However, there are political parties which, in fact, represent the interests of certain NGOs, but formally, participants in the political game are exclusively political parties and are guaranteed by the Constitution to form the political will of citizens rather than NGOs. Therefore, it is not true to suffer in the same role of political parties and NGOs from the aspect of the Constitution itself. Furthermore, the argument you made regarding the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, when performing public functions. The concept of public function has a range exclusively within that law. If you carefully read the beginning of this law, you will see what it says – in terms of this law, the public function is considered that – but not in terms of the Constitution, not in some general sense, but only in terms of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The concept of public function contained in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has a range exclusively within that law. The concept of the public and the concept of public function of the Constitution is significantly broader than the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and that is the point. I do not enter into the government's argument that the amendment does not accept because it is a practice in certain countries that when someone is elected to a certain state office, he does not have to resign. It's quite logical, it's established, it's understandable, it makes sense, and I don't want to go in at all. A previous question is raised here: is the government of Serbia a function in a political party a private function or a public one? If the government says that a function in the political party is a private function, then the whole system of democracy in Serbia turns upside down and then everything we knew about the basic concepts and principles of democracy no longer applies. So, Mr. Minister, I would like to invite you out again for this pay phone and tell us – if the function in the political party is not public, then it is private, so we will try to determine what is private because there is obviously a dispute over what is public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12070	I thank my colleague, Alexander Martinovic. The People's Messenger Lasslo Varga has the word, and then the People's Messenger is Slobodan Maras. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12071	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in his last announcement, made the claim that the President of the Republic had never misused this function. I would ask him a question to characterize the next two appearances in 2004. On the one hand, that year was the country's election. Vojvodina was flooded with posters and billboards where the President of the Republic hugged DS candidates, and these billboards were placed in all major places of Vojvodina. On the other hand, there's a local example, from Subotica. On October 3rd 2004, there was a second round of elections for the mayor of Subotica. On October 2nd, it was Saturday, and that Saturday night, the President of the Republic appeared in Subotica, took a walk in the corzoa, ate cooked corn with DS candidate for the mayor of Subotica. Is this abuse of the position of the President of the Republic, on the one hand, and the President of the Party, on the other hand? It would be better, Mr. Minister, if you said you didn't accept this amendment because you received such instructions. This explanation, which you presented behind this speaker, is practically very little accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12072	I thank Mr. Las Vegas. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Free Maras. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12073	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm reporting in connection with Article 226. I'm also looking for an explanation for this amendment because I really think that the explanation given by the government, which is why the amendment is being rejected, is totally unsatisfactory. I'd take the opportunity to read it again: "Amendment is not accepted. The President of the Republic cannot perform any other public function or professional activity under the Constitution. Since the position in the political party is not a public function, the proposed amendment changes the constitutional position of the President of the Republic. That's why the amendment isn't accepted. I'm reading this for the public, Mr. Markovic. You tried to be nice and likable earlier, however, your job here is to explain some of the questions you asked. You have been asked a question by the president of the LDP, or the head of the parliamentary group, to give us a definition of public function. We all testify that the party president's office is a public function. A few minutes ago, my colleague Varga made some details. I would also remind myself that during the local campaign, there were no flyers for any DS candidate who did not shake hands with DS President Boris Tadic. Also, political parties are financed from the Republika Srpska budget. Does that have anything to do with it? We all remember well how many times Boris Tadic appeared on TV, not knowing whether he appeared as president of the Republic or president of the party. I'm aware that you want to get this discussion of ours to the guidebook that it's only Boris Tadic's name. No, it's the President of the Republic. If you really don't think it's a public function, then it would be best if during the campaign, which is for the President of the Republic, we never see the President of the Republic at party mithinses again, and that the President of the Republic does only really appear in situations where it is due to perform as President of the Republic. So I ask you once again to give us an explanation of what a public function is – in your opinion, not to quote the Law on conflict of interest. You can laugh all you want, it's funny what you did. The fact that you quoted that law doesn't speak at all about public office. All citizens here know that the party president is a public function. It's not private, it's not our political life in private circles, it's happening in public. You have to give us a definition of public function in order for us to understand it, not that you give it to us so insurmountably. I see that Bozidar Djelic signed this, I suppose Mr Balinovac wrote this, and your argument is so inconclusive that you yourself are inconclusive. Give us a definition of public function. We will settle for the moment when you give us the right definition of what a public function is for you, that we understand the difference between the president of the party and the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12074	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. Milan Markovic, minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12075	Mr. Maras, my argument is so inconclusive that your MP club, after taking advantage of the time to defend the amendments, is now taking time by way of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226. You can't convince me. I went out and tried to answer your question. Apparently my argument was such that you now have the need to cover my argument with the amount of words spoken. For this speaker, I have twice said the definition of public function according to what is written in our laws. Another definition of public function I don't know. I can perform some of my definition of public function so I can link it to the exercise of certain public powers, businesses, etc. I can define a public function that way, and that's how I would define it if I were to do writing now, some theoretical work. Since you're saying that what I'm saying, that public function is not a public function, let someone come out for this pay phone and say what a public function it is and what legal act contains that definition of public functions. Well, maybe I don't know, I only know the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, where we mention a public function in our legal system. It can't define public functions that only applies to one law. Public function is a public function. It can't only apply to one law. It's a definition we recognize, recognised by this congregation, recognised by this state. Mr. Martinovic, you insist very highly on public and private. I don't believe you're explaining anything to your students that way. You know well that there are phenomena in both legal and political life that cannot be defined as you ask me to - publicly or privately, whether it is a family or a state. Well, it's not like that, and you know it's not like that, but you use it here skillfully in front of a pay phone because you're obviously a skilled speaker, but you know that's not the case. We know what private rights institutions are, what public institutions are, what they mean when we talk about the President of the Republic. If we talk about political parties, and you know it as I do, the position and role of political parties has been discussed for the last hundred years or more. I've read enough of that, I believe you're even more, given your work. You know well how political parties are defined, what attitudes about political parties, what the role of political parties are, so there are those who say political parties are negative, there are those who say political parties are the only possible entities in political processes, etc. If we're going to open this theoretical discussion here, I believe we're going to go far and I have no intention of competing with anyone in it. I'm telling you again, no matter what it looks like, laymanically observed, from the point of view of our positive regulations, a function in a political party is not a public function. You can't convince me. Explain to me, then, from the point of view of our positive regulations, where it is defined as a public function. As for real life, a lot of what public functions are. If you want to talk about real life, the president of some NGOs practically has a much greater public impact than the presidents of some political parties, but then say: well, now we're talking about real life. Do not use the right to help and to practice yourself in political observations. Mr. Varga says: What kind of President of the Republic would any official, Prime Minister, not fight for his political idea? That makes perfect sense. Well, the president of the Republic, when the political campaign comes, can't stand for the idea of the SRS a little bit for LDP, a little for who. He was elected as a representative of one policy, based on what he had offered, to implement the policy in action. And it is normal that when the election cycle comes again, it stands behind that policy and behind the people who implement that policy and fight for that policy. It would be abnormal for you to appear in the elections, get a single policy election, and then, when the bill comes, you say, no, I represent all the policies in this country. It would be impossible for someone to do that. The gentleman says political parties are funded from the budget. And that's proof of what? Well, you don't know what's being financed from the budget. Citizens' associations are funded from the budget. What does that have to do with anything? What kind of argument is that, then? There's a lot of funding from the budget. It is not an argument to prove the public nature of the political party. So, all in all, I understand, this is a political topic of a couple of excellencies, it's very interesting, I'm glad that it appeared in our political life in this way, but I can't accept that we in Serbia are doing something that no one is doing alive, that we are different from other democratic states, and I can't accept what you're saying, that this is in any way not in accordance with our legal system. I repeat, I've given the definition of public function twice here. If you know better, please come out and tell me, don't torture me anymore, and tell me in what law. I called on the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. You say it's the law and that one, read and say that the public function is that and that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12076	I thank Minister Milan Markovic. The word has a folk emissary Vesna Pesic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to introduce some order until Mrs. Pesic arrives. The People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, then has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12077	I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure, to clarify. Please, let me get one thing straight about the public function. I don't think it matters in this discussion whether it's a public function at all. I am instructing an argument that goes beyond that to qualify as party president as public or private. You consider the party president to be a private function. We also considered here instructions of arguments from the Constitution, etc. that it's a couple of excellency public functions. You just said that a public function that has a great amount of power in life doesn't interest you because it's a real life. Well, I guess that's what it's used to - regulate relationships in real life. You just said you weren't interested. But in my argument, I go much further. I speak exclusively as a sociologist and I will give you an example of the excellent text of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, Mr Slobodan Beljanski, who wrote an article on the accumulation of functions – that public officials must be prohibited from accumulation of functions. Let's say the president of the political party is a private function. Here, let's assume we're there. We said it was public, you say it was private – here, we agreed it was a private function. A state official of the highest level, such as the President of the Republic, cannot combine his function with a private function that carries so much power. The discussion of whether or not it is a public function is entirely unnecessary. And that it is private, it must not perform a private function if that function has as much power as it has in real life (you must consider real life). So that kind of cumulation function is illegal with a private function. From this whole discussion, whether it is public or private, we have made a mockery, because it is clear that the president of the political party is a public function, or political parties are public organisations, but also that it is private. Therefore, Mr Markovic, with this passion, I defend the principle of democracy that such functions must vary in society if we want to become a democratic society, that the public function must differ from a private function. Please, I hope you'll accept that. Miskovic is a private function – well, we have to differentiate from him. So it can't even have a relationship with a private function if it carries a certain amount of power and influence, because then it's a cumulation of power that can't be regulated by law. I said, then, that in that case, there is no point in legally regulating the position and jurisdiction of the President of the Republic if it carries the non-transparent power behind it. You said on the show it was a sociological question. That's why I didn't want to explain sociologically. That's why I told you yesterday to pay attention, because that's what laws do. Sociology is a science of relationships in society. What do we do here when we make laws, rather than regulate relationships in society? You don't care about that. You said it was a sociological thing. I have now explained to you all sociologically, that even if it is private – it cannot combine that function because it carries a certain amount of non-transparent power, and it is not allowed in democratic societies. Democratic society is what is transparent. The highest public function cannot perform non-transparent power behind the back of its public function, which we regulate by the Constitution and by law here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12078	I thank Mrs. Vesni Pesic. The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, also according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Nebojsa Randjelovic, then by MP Vjerica Radet, also by Business, then Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica, and then by Mr Dragan Todorovic, after the amendment. Don't be nervous, please. [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12079	Mr. Moron, while you're arguing with the MPs, stop my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12080	Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I call on the same members again. I asked a question that was very important so that we could continue to participate in the debate. I have asked you directly, Mr Minister: in what sense has the constitutional position of the President of the Republic been changed if this amendment is adopted? You have called on Article 115, which says that the President of the Republic cannot perform public office and other professional activity. You haven't actually answered the question. I will remind you only, before I ask you an additional question, when the Constitutional Court was discussed, ten days ago, for the judge of the Constitutional Court stood the same formula – that he could not perform a public and professional function. But you are in the law, or some other minister or other ministry, however, very precisely stating what it cannot do. It means it's not true that the constitutional position is being compromised. It is very important that we clarify this issue, because of the public of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I understand your need to give such answers that you are, in fact, confusing people. You said this question was a matter of a few excellency political issues. Of course it is. Well, the whole law on the President of the Republic is also an important political issue. It's about the highest function in the country. There is no dispute for you to stand up and say: hey, we are not going to distract the MPs or citizens of Serbia with all kinds of dribbles about this, simply, our position is, we think (of course, you say) that the President of the Republic can also be party president. To send such a message to the public. We send a message to the public that if the President of the Republic should express state unity, if the President of the Republic should be a symbol of the state, he cannot be the president of the party at the same time. I understand your needs to defend Tadic, and we say -- evidence of that is Tadic, proof that he cannot be both the president of the state and the president of the party. So, Mr. Minister, I'm not asking you why the majority, who calls themselves a democratic bloc, have changed their attitude. I am not asking you this because, remember the time when Slobodan Milosevic was in power, you insisted strongly on separating the role of the president of the Republic and president of the party, and in 1992, when he was elected president of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Slobodan Milosevic then resolved his post in the party. I'm not asking you why you changed that attitude. You think Tadic's gonna be president for a hundred years? We are not talking about Tadic, because we think he will no longer be president at all, but we are talking about the institution of the President of the Republic. To be a man, when he shows up to say yes, I didn't vote for him, but that's my president, too. While he is the president of the DS, the vast majority of Serbian citizens will say: it is not my president, it is the president of the Democratic Party. So, let's get to the bottom of this. Once again, I ask you: what does the constitutional position of the President of the Republic change if this amendment is adopted?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12082	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, too. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12083	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I report to the same members of the Rules of Procedure as respected predecessors. As Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said, let's try to get a little order in. Mr. Minister, by giving a definition of public function, mentioned the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. This law gives some narrow definition of public functions, which identifies state and public functions. The theory of rights in different ways of accessing this problem knows and extends the interpretation of public function and, precisely because the public function is not clearly defined enough, I would like the minister to hear what I'm saying, for that very reason we have given the amendment with this content. After an attitude that says, "The President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity," we add in the amendment, "The President of the Republic cannot act as head of the political party or any function in the political party". It is precisely because the law gives a narrow definition of public functions, and the theory of law knows and extends the approach to defining public function. So, Mr. Minister, we expect you... I would ask, Mr. Chairman, that my time be cut short. I want the minister to finish the conversation, so he can hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12084	Please, gentlemen, for a little peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12085	The point of this amendment is to clarify the intensity and to clarify the word "public function" in an unarranged manner. So we expect an answer from you. Since we have clarified this issue, do you think that the President of the Republic should also be the president of the political party or that he has a position in the political party or not? That's the essential question. We didn't get an answer to that question. In line with the brother-in-law of why the amendment is rejected by the government, we see that it is the urgency that the government supports that the future president of the Republic, whoever performs the post, will also be the president of the political party. By the way, if we were to distinguish the prime minister's position from the president's position, I would remind you of Article 111. The constitution concerning the head of state. So it's clear what the head of state is and what the Prime Minister is, and therefore, Article 111 of the Constitution that you wrote is what it is. So, I expect an answer to whether the Government, or you, as a representative of the Government, thinks it's okay and that the future president should be the head of some political party or perform a party function or not, because that is the meaning of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12086	I thank Ambassador Nebojsa Rangelovic. The word is from Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12087	Dear colleague, the answer to that question has been given by the constitutional creator. If the founder had thought differently, then Article 115 would have. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia seemed to be a member of 55th The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so it would be clearly stated: this can, this cannot. If the Constitution has arranged the position of the President of the Republic, if it has given him some rights, some opportunities, among other things, to be president of the political party, we cannot legally limit those rights. And it's not my place to answer the question of what I think. It was arranged by the constitutionmaker. 90% of the political parties, or representatives, sitting in this House, participated in the Constitution, and I am surprised that some of these parties are now reporting for a change of that solution contained in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12088	The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12089	Mr. Grouchy, I remind you of article 113. The Rules of Procedure, which states, 'The provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall apply to all the participants in the sitting, beside the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly.' Mr. Milan Markovic violated Article 104 in his not earlier, but earlier address. The Rules of Procedure for injuring the dignity of the National Assembly, and you didn't warn him about it. Mr. Milan Markovic, you were a people's MP and, when you go for this pay phone, remember that you are now a minister, that you are no longer a People's MP, that you have no right to give lectures to the MPs, that you should not show anger over what the MPs tell you, that you must not yell at the MPs, Mr. Milan Markovic, and in particular, where do you come from the idea that you tell the MPs which member of the Rules of Procedure can use and which member you cannot use. Is someone going to talk all day today based on an article? 225th and 226th and you're upset, you have to take it, Mr. Markovic. And, I'm really surprised, Mr. Mr. Gristle, that you didn't take care to warn Mr. Secretary of what his rights and obligations are when he's in this House. So, you showed that you can't explain the difference between private and public, that you can't explain why you formulated this article in this way, but at the end of that previous presentation, when you were very angry that MPs used the Rules of Procedure, you said: could anyone expect, for example, Boris Tadic to promote any idea other than the idea of DS? That's how you answered the question. We do not, of course, expect Boris Tadic to change his political views, although it is not a very big problem for you in the DS, from the establishment to the day-to-day, but we expect him to be the president of all citizens and that is what you have failed to explain to us. I'll talk, of course, about the amendment. Now, I just called to warn you not to irritate the MPs of the people, so that there will be no return to the Rules of Procedure, that you take strict care of Article 104 that you are under obligation and related to Article 113. The Rules of Procedure, that you may take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and act in this manner before the MPs of the people. And I also warn you, Mr. Mr. Gristle, that you too take care of it and that you do not allow the minister here to jump, yell, insult the MPs with his conduct. It's not easy to interpret something that Zoran Balinovac wrote, I understand, but what to do, Kostunica sent you, you must.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12090	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. I think Mr. Milan Markovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was very tolerated and very correct. Therefore, I do not see the reason for the criticism that you have directed to me, Verice, please, and I also ask the MPs to treat the minister with tolerance and correctness. So he has the right to tell the MP he can't speak. ) Milan Markovic did not say that, believe me, and you are in good co-operation with Milan Markovic. We'll take a look at the stenogram... All right, we'll see you in the afternoon. Thank you, Veronica. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that, as a man, that's what I said yesterday, I sincerely sympathise with Mr. Milan Markovic. It's really not easy for him. What falls into the eyes of anyone who follows a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is that Minister Milan Markovic was literally left behind by the ruling coalition, or above all his DS counterparts. A man is fighting here, or put into a baraque fire system. So he's being attacked by SRS MPs, not himself, as a man, but by a stand that defends, and the SPS, and the LDP, and, behold, an hour and a half of time no one will report from the DS. They are sitting there with their minds to say a clever word in defense of the argument made by Mr Milan Markovic. Believe me, Mr. Minister, it comes to me, as a man, to get over everything I've said and to accept your argument and to, well, try to ease your suffering, but what you're going to do, party discipline makes me go on. So, Mr. Minister, you asked if students must accept some logical principles etc. You know, the whole system of science – here, behind you sits Mr. Dragoljub Micunović, he is a prominent scientific worker – primarily resting on the principles of formal logic. There's something in science either black or white. I know that you would like, in your well-checked custom, to somehow make everything gray and not know who is where, nor that there are clear terms, clear categories etc., to dangle, to put under the rug, etc., but, you know, the whole development of legal thought, the entire development of philosophy, thousands of years so far has failed to find a third concept besides public and private. Here, if you could explain to me that there is a third term in public and private, a middle term, I would be really deeply grateful for learning something new. I have a really well-intentioned advice for you, Minister. It's not worth it to you that at the National Assembly session, when the government's argument has already arrived, which is unsuspecting, unargumented, which doesn't drink water, that you've been running around here a lot, and that you're trying to find some reasons. Instead, when writing bill proposals, consult people who understand the substance of the law. When you write an explanation of the bill, at least read it. Before you come to the meeting of the National Assembly, make sure that you correct that reasoning, that it looks like something, that you may know, when you come to the meeting of the congregation, what you will say. Like this, you come unprepared and I just feel sorry for you, like a man. Here, there's all these DS ambassadors sitting here, putting together friends from the DSS, and from G17 plus, etc., and absolutely no one to answer the word and tell you: Mr. Minister, they're wrong SRS MPs, there's really something between public and private, and here, we're going to take it out now. This way, you're on your own, and here you are, an hour and a half, and more you're struggling here with the concepts that, unfortunately for yours, and students are well-known.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12092	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12093	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, I must say, but I don't want to offend you - you're embarrassed. What you said must be normal for the president to, when it becomes, promote his political idea, I know he's doing it, and I know you want to, but you can't say it. What you said is inadmissible. The constitution says it expresses state and national unity. This cannot be done by promoting ideas supported by 680,000 voters in this country. The state of Serbia has five-six million voters, the president was voted in favour of a million, and then you say that he, drawing constitutional authority, will promote the idea of a political party whose president he is. I wish the president wouldn't do that, although he does, and I wish you wouldn't, and you're making it public. We're not delirious here. We say that what we've been trying to do with the amendment is to fix more normal than what was proposed by the law. And there's no dispute there. So, the fact that you agreed to walk on thin ice today with too much weight, and you're going to sink today in front of all of us here, that's your choice, but you've been a folk MP here, you've been vice president of the National Assembly, not in front of the National Assembly to embarrass yourself. Don't answer that again if you can't convince us that what we wrote here isn't right. Publicly, secretly -- you know, in this country everything has now become relative. There is a man in Serbia named Ratko Ninkovic, who is the president of the Union of Employers, who has some headquarters there, has faxes, e-mails. It's at the same address as the fax and e-mail and all the other Mason's Lodge Orient. One thing's public, the other's secret. I was just talking about the king. These are all the Karadjordjevics, the Bilmasons or the Rosencroisers. I don't know where they came from, it doesn't matter, so now they're like some. Well, it's not true. But the president of the political party, the big political parties (you are a big political party), performs his public office with every appearance. It's inseparable. The public is indistinguishable from any of his appearances, intentions or proceedings. He can't say anything private. The president of the state cannot say anything privately because he is the president of the state and everything he says has special weight. If you can't accept this amendment, don't make us talk about this for two days, because we have to tell you. So I know you can't accept this amendment at the cost of life and death, that's clear to me, otherwise, you won't be who you are, but don't give us arguments that don't stand. The constitution said this, didn't say that. That's not true. We expect you to be consistent. You said everything in this country would be a democratic issue when you became power. You have now become power, and nothing has been a democratic question since the time you... (President: I thank you, Mr. Baralic, your time is up.) ) Slobodan Milosevic was demissioned, so Borisav Jovic was party president when he was elected Serbian president. Figurative? Well, let your president do it figuratively, we don't mind. Here, make sure Boris Tadic doesn't figuratively be party president, so we'll believe you're being honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12094	I thank Rajka Baralic. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. You've made so much noise, and now it's not in the O.R. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12095	I'm not Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic's lawyer, but I want to say that he reported to the Rules of Procedure half an hour and more, and that he will come and reveal what he wanted to say. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226, and I'm asking for one explanation from the minister, and I've been encouraged by one of his statements. I don't know if he put it in effect or thought it was real, but he literally said that in the state of Serbia there was one thing, and in practice, in real life, something else. And that's how it is. Really, what he said, I can confirm. Why? Because democratic laws are just like that. That is what makes it possible for the Constitution and democratic laws – that anything that is impossible becomes possible, that anything that is illegal, be legitimate. In a further explanation of my amendments and a comment on other people's amendments, I will prove what I'm saying is that everything is illegal legal, and they are an example of ad hoc pensions of pensioners, salaries, strikes. And everything in the Constitution and in the laws is written ambiguously, in many ways, as if the law had been written by the prophetess Pythius in the Delphis under the influence of the brimstones when she foretold fate to significant people, warlords, etc. And what exactly is the point? What kind of life is it? Life is like that. The party in power can be, and this time it is, publicly, even a profitable enterprise. It is to be financed from the budget (well, all parties are funded from the budget), but it also has a president, it is the director. Does he have any employees? There is. Does he have his own exposure? Yes, it's your people's offices all over Serbia. You make the budget, you regulate everything in the budget, what you give to whom. You also regulate the stock market, Mr. Minister. Remember, when he was elected president of the Assembly, a candidate who didn't answer to the DS, who didn't answer to you. Did you regulate the stock market? Have there been any changes in the stock market, terrible changes until Mr Nikolic resigned, and then the stock market reunited? Here, it's a practice in your life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12096	The word has a folk MP Elvira Kovaca, also according to the Rules of Procedure, so Vladan Batic. Mr. Batic, you just got here, wait a minute. Have a little patience, everybody. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12097	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I signed up for the Rules of Procedure half an hour ago, and I will respond first to Mr. Varga's question, and then to Mr. Minister's answer. Mr Varga asked around 11:00 a.m. whether you believe that the abuse of the official position was the fact that Mr Tadic, during the duration of his election silence, the day before the elections in Subotica, walked through the corzo, ate corn and, therefore, using his post as president of Serbia, promoted, of course, the DS and your candidate. I'm aware that pre-election silence means the silence of electronic media, just to tell you that it was transmitted by electronic media. On the other hand -- I would like you to hear what I'm saying, Mr. Minister -- I would like to tell you that the president of Serbia is the president of all of us. I want to quote you, you said he should promote political ideas. In translation, I'd like to say, for information from citizens who are monitoring this transmission, that means political parties. We all know how Mr Tadic became president of Serbia in 2004. Of course, he's the president of all of us, and you've publicly invited the others. I would like to stress that there are, besides DS, more democratically-oriented parties, among other things, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as a minority party, which was also called and publicly told its voters to vote in the second round for Mr Boris Tadic. So we gave you the blank support. It turns out that Mr. Tadic won thanks to your voters, and you know that's not the case. With your answer, you actually told voters that you only expect DS support, because Mr. Boris Tadic is the party's president, and that thanks only to your political ideas he will win the presidential election. Once again, please, if you can answer Mr. Varga's question and my question, do you think it was an abuse of your official position and explain whether in your presentation you wanted to say that it promotes only your political ideas or just your political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12098	I thank the People's MP Elvira Kovac. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, and then a National MP, Dr Zarko Obradovic. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? Perhaps during your discussion, Mr. Batic. I hope there won't be a replica on your discussion. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12099	Just three minutes per amendment, and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12100	No, now you're talking about the Rules of Procedure, and then you're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12101	Well, don't come twice, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12102	You'll have to, unfortunately, what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12103	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think you've heard enough arguments and that this provision of the law is not in accordance with the Constitution. I think the distinguished colleague Martinovic has already mentioned this, and I ask you to explain how the President of the Republic will express the state unity of the Republic if he is also the president of the political party. It is the first premise, by definition, the president of all Serbian citizens. If he remains president of a political party, has no bearing on the matter, then he automatically declares himself a member of a political option and automatically violates the constitution's provision. Mr. Minister, I think your law is incomplete. There's something missing. There is no picture of the current president of Serbia. You were supposed to put a picture of the president on the front page, so we knew what it was about. It may not have anything to do with the incompatibility of functions, but it causes the citizens of Serbia to wonder. Mr. Mrkonjic, I haven't come in now, I've been with a group of citizens for two hours, who wonders by wonder what's going on in Serbia, talked and performed the post of MP. Mr. Minister, what's an anti-sub public, secret or private? Is the president of the political party, significant political parties, a secret function, conspiracies, illegal? Is this, on the other hand, personal, private, private – what kind of public function is that? If you wanted to commit to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, then it had to be written in the law on the President of the Republic, that the President of the Republic could not perform any public function provided for by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Otherwise, there's no one you can explain to me that the president's office is not public. So you have two words. Come on, say it, and deny it, but tell me how. Language, logical, grammatical, conceptual or Semantic, targeted or etimological – let's, whatever you want to interpret the legal norm, so everyone will confirm to you that it is a public function. One more thing. You can see that the bill was written by Balinovac because neither Kostunica, when elected president of the SRJ, left the post of president of the DSS. Some of my distinguished colleagues often quote Slobodan Jovanovic. It wouldn't be bad, Minister, if you read little Slobodan Jovanovic, and it wouldn't be bad to read the authorial text of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, so you'll see that he didn't agree that the party president could be the president of the state either. Besides, this is about future generations. The wheel of happiness is turning. Nobody burned until dawn. Don't be the hostages of this and this kind of narcissistic norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12104	I thank Mr. Batic. According to the amendment, Mr Dragan Todorovic answered the word now, so Mr. Zarko Obradovic, and Mr. Vladan Batic. (Dragan Todorovic: I picked up half an hour ago.) No, now we're going to talk about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that the deliberate debate under this amendment has gone in a completely wrong direction and that this is why the government's explanation for this amendment is not accepted. Unfortunately, I think that many MPs have just caught on to this explanation and have completely deviated the course of the debate, which is why this amendment should be accepted. He says, "Because the position in the political party is not a public function, the proposed amendment changes the constitutional position of the President of the Republic. That is why the amendment is not accepted." And that's the thing we need here to define. We should not enter into whether the party president is public or not. We think it is, you think it isn't, but it doesn't matter at all, and we, from that point of view, want this amendment to be accepted. We want him to be accepted because the President of the Republic is not the same as the mayor or president of the municipality, what you have instructed as an analogy, that, if someone is chosen, at the same time to resign to every party function. The fact is that the President of the Republic is one of the highest functions in the country. That, I guess, shouldn't slow down. The fact is, that function carries a certain power. Whether she's tall or not, it's not that important right now, but it's certain that that power is such that many things can be done based on her. Why are we trying to let you know that this amendment should be accepted? Because the President of the Republic would not abuse that power, no matter who. I am sure that after the election, Tomislav Nikolic, even if he is not in the law, will resign to party functions because these two things are incompatible. And don't hang on to it now - public, secret. In the Constitution, you have no reason to replace the President of the Republic if he's in some secret society. It doesn't say anything in the Constitution. But, let's just say, if the president were found to be a member of some secret masseuse, that would be enough reason for me to believe not two-thirds, but all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament to vote for his shift. I guess that's not what we need to convince you. Article 111 The constitution says, "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Minister, explain to me how the President of the Republic who is president of one party can express the unity of all citizens. It should not be put into DS only now because Boris Tadic is president. You should look to the future a little bit, and not a far future. It is normal that the party president will do everything he can to help his party and take advantage of the situation. We are now offering you an honorable opportunity to wear, in a way, the eagle people or parties that have at one point denied the possibility or prevented abuse by the President of the Republic. Let me remind you of, let's say, one of Boris Tadic's moves – the establishment of the National Office. Please tell me, where is the National Office defined, in what law? Under what law did the President of the Republic form the National Office? For what reason? Give me the results of that National Office. What did he do that for? So Gilas could run around Serbia and the EPP. So that citizens would reportedly address the National Office and promote the DS. And that is why, in the simplest way, we prevent any future President of the Republic from abusing its position. Don't hide behind this at all: public, not public, private. We don't care at all. It is said precisely: he cannot perform party duty. Very precise. And that's only for the President of the Republic. No analogy should be drawn from this at all, as then ministers should not perform any party function either. We're aware of the fact that that would be insane. But when it comes to the President of the Republic, we must deny him the right to also be able to deal with party affairs, or to be party president or to be in any other position, because he has an extremely great power. I think that if you really intend to take this country through democracy, that, by adopting this amendment, in the simplest way, the next president, Tomislav Nikolic, should prevent us from misusing the role of the president of the Republic for political purposes, or for the benefit of the SRS, because I can't say that we would resist that situation in which we could possibly profit, or benefit from it. So don't hide behind the public, behind the private. Here a simple thing is sought – that the President of the Republic cannot perform a party function.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12106	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, and then by Dr Vladan Batic, following the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Markovic, have a good trip. Mr. Markovic has other things to do, but it won't stop the MPs from telling us about the law. I was going to say that if Mr. Markovic is holding on to his profession and the work he's doing, then it would be quite logical to accept this amendment. I know he shouldn't do it for party reasons, because it would probably cost him the office of minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Accepting Ceda Jovanovic's amendment is heresy for you from the DS or any of the opposition parties because it has other, party implications for you. You know you have problems in Serbia from the point of view of party structure, relations, fluctuations and the like, but that's what the media is saying, and you're trying not to mention it. Imagine what would happen if the amendment of Cedomir Jovanovic was accepted. However, if the minister and government cannot accept Mr Jovanovic's amendment, then there is Mr Miletic Mihajlovic's amendment, which is somewhat shorter, but the meaning is the same. He, like this amendment we are talking about, predicts that the president of the state cannot be party president. Regardless of this dilemma, which opened during the afternoon, whether it is a party or a private function, I must say that, even if we accept this assumption that it is a private function, unfortunately, it must be realized that the former president of the Republic of Serbia has made that function public. Even if this were the latter, he made it public and additionally gave it the right to all those who say the party's president, the moment he was elected president, would have to resign to the post and do the job in Serbia's interest. I'm not saying this by accident. In the principle debate on the election of the President of the Republic, I mentioned several cases where the President of the Republic has put his state office in the role of a political party headed by him. He went to party glory. And let him go to party glory, that's his party matter, but the problem is that the party's fame has been reported as the state affairs of the President of the Republic. The meetings of the main committee, to which he chaired, were always in the function of the state function he performed. Thus, Mr Tadic told us publicly that he considers his function, first of all, as a performance of party function. Unfortunately, but true, it also appeared during public appearances, that Mr Tadic did not represent and demonstrate state unity, as it stands in a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning what he is the institution of the President of the Republic. Article 111 The constitution says: "The President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia". Over the past two or three years, we've seen that this state unity isn't state unity, that it's behavior that is conditioned by DS needs. Repeated statements by Mr Tadic that there are two Serbias, allegedly one democratic and another non-democratic, that there are two Serbias on different issues. Thus, Mr Tadic has shown in practice that, as party president, he does not express state unity. The party's president is not a private function, the party's president is a public function. It's done by public function, and it's done in a number of different ways. We, members of the SPS, simply marvel at the courage of the legislator of this law to publicly say what the whole of Serbia knows and what it should not say. Because when the motion talks about laws, the laws concern all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and refer to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is frantic, but true, this is also mentioned by my colleague Rajko Baralic, that the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia publicly says it is logical to represent the interests of the DS. Even if it makes sense, he cannot say it because these DS interests must be drowned in the interests of other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If the president of the Republic of Serbia expresses state unity, then he expresses the views of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If it expresses the interests of the DS, then what will the National Office do to him, to initiate proposals, sublime opinions, to shape what the citizens think, to be in touch with the citizens – what will it do? Then he's got enough of the DS General Board, so let them tell him what to do, and then we know that we have a president of the DS who's elected president of the state, and that's how he understands and performs this function. If the legislator wanted to be consequential about this subject, then it was also necessary to prove this consistency in this bill. I'll remind you that we almost, a few days ago, had a debate about the Constitutional Court. It says that the Constitutional Court judges cannot perform public and professional action. Then a member of the Constitutional Court Act said that the Constitutional Court judge would be resolved if he became a member of the political party. So, it's resolved, it can't perform that duty. Be careful, the Constitutional Court judge is one of 15, so he cannot perform the duty if he is a member of the political party, and the president is the first in Serbia to be elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is logical for the promoter to be president of the political party. Which is a lot, it's a lot. It's really a lot, but unfortunately it shows something else. This shows one manner, which has been observed in previous years, that representatives so-called. democratic values speak one thing when they're in opposition, and the other they work when they're in power. The whole story of transparency, of democratic values, of what's going to be "when we come to power," proved completely different. If I didn't spread the subject because if a man came into this story of what they were doing, what they were saying, and what else they're doing now, we'd be staying here for days. We mentioned yesterday and these local self-government and that call to the Constitution, but only in the part where it corresponds to the interests of the ruling coalition. We called on the minister yesterday to, for example, work in these 11 municipalities, where forced administration was introduced, to form a municipal council in accordance with the Constitution. When he does, then we'll believe him to respect the Constitution. Otherwise, we see that the Constitution breaks. This is just the beginning of the debate on the law on the President of the Republic, and yesterday in the debate we showed, in a number of cases, that, in fact, there are formulations that will essentially violate the Constitution. To us, the SPS MPs, it seemed there should be no big discussion about this amendment at all. It is logical that the President of the Republic cannot be the head of the political party, but it is good that we have heard this different opinion, by the representatives of one party within that ruling coalition, that party that has its own president who is currently the head of state, because they show that nothing is actually sacred to them just to make party interests come true through the state apparatus. I'm not saying this by accident. You'll see when we talk about the Secretariat, and in this context and the National Office, what was done through the National Office to ensure some party interests and achieve party goals. The bill is such that it shows that the legislator, in fact, does not respect himself, let alone what is the expression of democratic value in other countries to which he is so often called. If this amendment by Mr. Jovanovic cannot be accepted for party reasons, we will talk very quickly about Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic's amendment, my party friend, and then we will give the proposer an opportunity to accept this amendment and that one question that really, if not for such stubbornness, would not require this kind of debate, would be removed from the agenda and we will say to Serbia: yes, the president of the party, the moment he was elected president of the state, can no longer perform a party function because it is one of the ways to express state unity and to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the importance and content of the institution he represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12108	I thank Dr. Zarko Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, and then there are no speakers anymore. Radovan Radovanovic? Okay, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point to the sociological dimension of this whole story again. We had a very strange finding by the Minister that he was not interested in real life when it comes to standardising this provision governing the status of the President of the Republic. Every legal norm is an upgrade to real life. She needs to arrange something that represents real life. What exactly is this about? It's about the unconventional privatisation of one society, the concentration of power, the accumulation of power in one man's personality. In modern societies, it's inconceivable. We're going back to the tribal community, the tribal system, where the wizard does whatever he wants. You know why? You have a paradox pointed out by Mr. Zarko Obradovic. If the president of the state, here is the case which is very plastic, at the same time the president of the political party, then you have a situation that was on the agenda recently, that the president of a political party chooses the judges of the Constitutional Court, and these judges of the Constitutional Court cannot be members of the political party. They are elected by the president of a political party, and they are not allowed to be members of any political party. It's an absolute nonsens. Of course, the president of the political party has a dominant influence when the ministers, members of the government, are elected members of the executive act of the government from his party. He decides who will be the minister, he decides who will be the MPs, and thus has a dominant influence on the legislative authority. So, the president of Serbia who can also be party president, and will be party president, as you intend, will be someone who has a dominant influence on the legislative authority, the executive authority and the Constitutional Court. Well, where's that? Well, there's one in Serbia. Even Milosevic, in his first years of power after the multiparty, when he was not afraid he could leave office in the '90s. The year froze his function. At a time when Slobodan Milosevic was president of Serbia, he froze the post of SPS president. And it was Borisav Jovic. Now Putin's making up some gymnastics, so it won't be by the way I don't know what time the president of Russia is. This looks a lot like Ug Chavez, Eva Morales, Fidel Castro. You are here and demonstrate your love for Fidel Castro. It looks like absoluteist systems, but what exactly is it? It's quite clear. Why did the second part of the ruling majority accept such a provision? Because only this current president of the Republic and the party president would choose the president of the other party as prime minister. That explains everything, and that's the whole point. I don't think any other DS president would propose Kostunica as prime minister. I don't think Gilas would propose it either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12110	I thank Dr. Vladan Batic. The word has a folk MP Radovan Radovanovic, then Ivan Andric, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12111	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, lived the Day of the Republic. In some of us and today lives, but here I am today, instead of sitting at home with my friends with a good table and celebrating my holiday, I have to sit in this congregation and argue with those who have contributed greatly to that country, which is still deeply squatting in me, is falling apart and that everything goes where none of us dreamt. I went out, first of all, to say that this amendment, which was submitted by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, says that Article 9 of this law should add: "The President of the Republic cannot act as head of the political party, nor any function in the political party", absolutely acceptable to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and we will surely support it. I think it's acceptable for every party because it's good for her to keep her leader in charge if she's headed by the state, and it's especially good for the country itself that someone who's in charge doesn't lead the party. I don't mean some particular candidate here because I'm saying that a little bit of us can hold out when he puts number nine on his back, so he doesn't think: "I, well, God." So were Josip Broz Tito, and Slobodan Milosevic, and Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, including Tomislav Nikolic. The five or six days he chaired this National Assembly, he did not find fit to come down from the head of the SRS. In order to illustrate how we in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina view this function, it is best recognised in the working version of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina which, together with the Union of Duchy Hungarians, we have proposed these days. Under this proposal of the Statute, if it passes, and hopefully we will work hard to do so, the AP Vojvodina will get its president, and in the statute itself, and later in all the decisions that will follow, we will insist that no one can be the president of the AP Vojvodina who is at the same time the president of any political party. But don't think I'm comparing these two functions. The role of AP President Vojvodina is purely a protocol function, while the role of the president of the Republic of Serbia is a major state function, perhaps the largest one the Republic of Serbia has. So I absolutely support this amendment submitted by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12112	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic asked for the word, and then the People's MP Verica Radet, and then the MP Ivan Andric, two minutes, will return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I don't know how you missed that we, here, have heard just now an amazing thing – that, in some draft of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, there will be a function called the AP President of Vojvodina and that this future president of the AP Vojvodina will be an extra-party figure. The AP Vojvodina position is clearly defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there is no AP Vojvodina statute that can predict anything other than what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, I have no doubt that the gentlemen of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are really at the heart of the republic, I just don't know which one. If the Republic of Vojvodina is at their heart, I have to tell them right away that there's nothing to do with that job. Vojvodina has never been a republic nor will it be, and especially that republic of Vojvodina cannot achieve the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and its political partners and allies because it is clear to all and all the election results show that Serbia's Vojvodina is the strongest SRS foothold.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12114	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word has Verica Radeta, an SRS MP, also according to the Rules of Procedure, so MP Zeljko Tomic, also according to the Business, then MP Dusan Bajatovic, also according to the Business, and Aleksandar Martinovic, again according to the Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12115	A colleague, Radovanovic, apparently, did not know whether or not he accidentally or intentionally, but confused the topic of the agenda. We are talking about the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic. At 10.00 hours, nearly two and a half hours, we are talking about an amendment with a very serious and good intention to convince the minister to accept Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's amendment or we will continue to talk about the SPS amendment. As far as we're concerned, it doesn't matter which of these two amendments are to be accepted, but the bottom line is that we're talking about that the President of the Republic cannot perform a party function, or that he has any high function in the party. All other functions, a colleague of Radovanovic, are completely normally derived from party functions. There is no need for neither the Prime Minister, nor the President of Parliament, nor the government ministers to give up party functions. That's why we fought and fought for a multiparty system, so we have party representatives, so we fight for power, so when we fight (in elections, of course), then certain functions are assigned to party functions, whether officials, whether only party members, of course, are possible to people who are not party members, who can respond to the jobs that a function requires. But in this context, mentioning the fact that Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not resign as he said, the party's president, is completely pointless. First, for your information, the president of the Serbian Radical Party is Professor Vojislav Seselj. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is the vice president of the party and, of course, in the absence of Mr Seselj, he runs the party and there is nothing controversial about it. In particular, there was nothing controversial about the few days Mr Tomislav Nikolic served as Parliament Speaker. It doesn't matter, it can't be brought into context by that observation of yours. It is obviously malicious because there is no way to connect to what we are talking about, and I repeat, we are trying to explain to the President of the Republic for two and a half hours that the President of the Republic cannot also be a party official, especially the President of the Party. There is no minister anymore, he obviously doesn't care, and as far as we're concerned, we're going to keep talking about this amendment and the other amendments, but please, colleagues, don't really use this expert debate as a matter of fact for some unprincipled bickering, especially for the malicious. We can do it anyway. It's no problem. We can use the Rules of Procedure, all the members of the Rules of Procedure are at our disposal, but that is not our intention. We intend to really discuss the amendments to the Law on the President of the Republic responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12116	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. The word has been given by MP Zeljko Tomic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12117	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I reported on the basis of article 104. The Rules of Procedure, in connection with Mr Radovanovic's exposure. I am very happy to remember an earlier proposal, which also came from the Social Democrats League as well as this proposal of the Vojvodina Statute, which is that seven cities in Vojvodina get the status of the city, and Novi Sad is the status of the capital. It's a very interesting thing. There's only one duke in the world who doesn't have a duke, and that's Vojvodina. It's an area called the Duke, and it doesn't have a duke. It's simply that the duchess is written in a small letter, but in a radical post-war policy, I mean World War II, that little letter got a big letter and now we have Vojvodina as a name and as a term, and someone would like it to be a lot more than that. So, the capital of Vojvodina. No duke, no throne, but it would be the capital. It's another paradox that's been coming before. So, ladies and gentlemen of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, it's nice to have that list of wishes, but it has nothing to do with any reality, of course it has nothing to do with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You did not participate in the constitutional campaign, i.e. we know how you participated, and from the post of President of the Vojvodina Assembly where your distinguished member called for not to vote in favour of the Constitution, in addition to the agreement of all the heads of Parliament clubs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, so I do not think that your intensities and tendencies will be expressed, and all election results in Vojvodina speak back many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12118	I thank the People's MP, Zeljko Tomic. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure, then Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Hope Kolundzija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12119	Dear fellow Members, Article 104. I think we need to respect each other a little bit more here, and so I want to let you know about one fact that I think is a little bit ignored, and it has something to do with what we're talking about the president. In Vojvodina, we have a second post-five-octoctobar autonomic offensive. The first, between 2001 and 2003, resulted in the so-called The omnibus law, where the late Prime Minister Djindjic, with a top political maneuver, reduced the demands of his restless, horned, complex partners. Now the gentlemen thought it was time for the next, new offensive. I'll remind you that a time-old academic of Fira (this is the Democratic Party, I must admit, at that time opposed another project, politically) wanted to talk about the basic law, so the constitution of Vojvodina. I think it's underestimating in Serbia today. At that time, not only was the president, the National Bank, constitutional, judicial, legislative authority, police, but the two-cameral assembly also envisaged, so, let's say, it could happen that in the two-home assembly, in the gathering, votes of members of the Hungarian national community and of the Croatian national community, as the gentlemen also suggested, blocked the entire political life in Vojvodina because they did not like something. One is minority rights, and the other is institutionalised separatism, characterized by the fact that the DS suffers in the duchy government (for the sake of the preservation of power, probably) the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, holds them in its embrace and thus allows, through the function of the President of the Assembly, that we have institutionalised separatism in Vojvodina, because the man is an unofficial foreign minister, walking around the world, and we receive warnings from his travels to the state of Serbia. Today, the two - housed congregation is trying to introduce itself in another way, counting the constituent peoples of the Vojvodina. Since I don't have much time left, I just want to tell you: there is no political movement in the history of that space, which we today call Vojvodina, which was related to its autonomy, not the Germans, not the Hungarians, or any other ethnic community today in Vojvodina. The political movement for freedom was linked exclusively to the Serbian political movement in Vojvodina. And he resulted in the Serbian people's wish in Vojvodina by joining the queen of Serbia. Anything else, as Mr. Canak says, as Vojvodina joined Kostunica's alleged constitution in 2007 and similar nonsense, is aimed only at one thing - to make a mess in Vojvodina, a riot, to bring about the internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue. We already have another monitoring mission. What kind of riots exist in Vojvodina? Who's bumping into anyone? Who is it that doesn't want Roma in Vojvodina looking for their rights? What are these congregations that make the pro-fascist laws of the type of decision that has been made in Sainta and things like that? I apologize, Mr. Chairman. When I answer the amendment, I'll explain some more things, why we don't need some things. So I urge all relevant political parties in Serbia to take the issue of Vojvodina autonomy out of the hands of autonomists. Vojvodina should have autonomy, appropriate autonomy, economically-oriented autonomy, all that's good. We Dukes want to be nicer, better and smarter than others, but then we have to prove it. But not through the autonomists. From Duda Boskovic to today, the autonomous movement in Serbia has never been able to communicate well with the Serbian political factor. (President: I thank you, Mr. Bajatovic.) I'm sorry, Mr. Grouchy, just one more sentence. They were always leaning on either the German factor or the Peasant Party of Vlatka Pussy. Are we going to tell the same stories again? No, it is necessary to change the leadership of the Vojvodina Assembly and to go to the elections with a completely new set to reflect the true will of the people of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12120	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. You've got another five minutes on the amendment. The word is made by MP Alexander Marton, also by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only say to Mr. Bajatovic that it was very good that he remembered Mr. Duda Boskovic, who, like Joca Lalosevic, was a prominent radical in Vojvodina before World War II and a great advocate of the idea of autonomous Vojvodina. As for some stories of fascism in Vojvodina, that someone doesn't want citizens of Roma nationality in Vojvodina, I think Mr. Shane can also say about the relationship between the current government in Vojvodina and the Roma issue, according to Decada Roma. We've heard from him a thousand times that there is a great relationship in Vojvodina with the Roma issue, so I think the current government in Vojvodina is doing great to solve these problems. As far as the election is concerned, Mr. Bayatovic, the SPS has barely crossed the censorship in the Vojvodina elections. The LSV won about twice as many votes, about the same votes as the DSS and the SPS combined. We won three or four times as many votes from some parties. The LSV then, according to public opinion polls, had about 0.1%, and then elections happen and we win ten percent of the vote. The LSV and SVM proposed a draft statute of the AP Vojvodina. Find, have on the site both SMV and LSV, read the statute and find a single word that is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then I'll tell you that you're right. We're not separatists, we just want the real AP Vojvodina. Not just you, I'm talking to the people of the SRS, let them find an example of the separatist activity of LSV and SVM. And as for the president of the AP Vojvodina, if the municipality of Zitište, the municipality of Zrenjanin, the municipality of Panchevo, the municipality of Gajin Han may have a president, why wouldn't an autonomous province have a president? We love to point out the example of decentralisation of Italy, which is great. If I pick up the AP Vojvodina, the AP Friulia-Venice-Julia in Italy, has a president, why wouldn't the AP Vojvodina have one? Does anyone in Trieste want a break from Italy? He doesn't want to. Also, no one in Vojvodina wants to secede. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12122	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Marton. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Business, and Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Srdjan Sajn, according to the Business. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us in the SRS, it's been pretty clear that LSV politicians don't understand each other very well in history. They falsified the very idea of Vojvodina, or the autonomy of the Serb people in South Hungary. In the XIX century, the largest Serbs in those areas fought for the idea, those who had been enslaved for years in the caves for the idea that all Serbs should unite in a single state and that the first stage would be Serbian autonomy in the Habsburg monarchy. Dusan Boskovic, mentioned earlier, was expelled from the People's Radical Party Nikola Pasic and became a senior official of the Independent Democratic Party Svetozar Pribićevic, and this same Svetozar Pribicevic made a pact in 1927 with the Croatian Peasant Party and established the so-called "St. Peasant Democratic Coalition – SDK. The same Dusan Boskovic ended his political career as an adviser to the Ustasha government, Ante Pavelic, in Zagreb. To appeal today to Dusan Boskovic and his political ideas means nothing more than to open the door to some new fascism in Vojvodina. Those who are full of mouths of antifascism, democracy, human rights, the European Union, etc. Today, in the Serbian Parliament, they do nothing but glorify the character and work of those who ended their lives as supporters of Usta Pavelic's Ustasha chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12124	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12125	My fellow Members, look at the error of Mr. Autonomist. They think they're being paid to defend the autonomy of the Vojvodina. No, for the autonomy of the Vojvodina are both DS and SPS – what's the problem? Your problem is that you first said ''Where's our money? ', so you got 220,000,000, or 3% of Serbia's total capital investment budget, and that's the Executive Greater Vojvodina, here, I'll say, it works pretty well. Now that we've reached our money, you're asking: where are our laws? And it's perfectly logical that the next question is on your side: and where is our country? - what it says in your program. I am for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, but I am not for the Duke's Republic. And I understand your understanding that the autonomists first came to Vojvodina with their ideas, so then amoebe, then probably some others, until we got to the people. So, what's the point of the whole story here? Please, the projects you are offering, in the conditions of such a government in Serbia -- political instability, relatively hostile environment, political dissension -- and when you give some consistency -- to whom, what is that supposed to mean, from what do you historically draw? So, your goal, essentially, politically, aside from what we have historical experience, what your colleague in the SRS said, is to segregate the Vojvodina. Don't run away from it. Why are we running away from that? Here, you had a president of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, who is not your scientific but political project, so the VANU, who went out the same way -- not Kosovo to be in Hong Kong's status, as the Serbian government thinks, or some other autonomy, but to be Vojvodina. Please, very often Separatist goals are blocked by some kind of fog of economic or I don't know any other benefits and interests. But it's just fog. Step by step, by perfided rhetoric, as Mr. Kostresh says: we will count the constituent nations in Vojvodina. On what basis are they constitutive? And who is it that will count them? So, please, this is about one serious misunderstanding. The autonomy of Vojvodina should exist, we agreed in the Constitution that it should exist, and still needs to be developed, as well as a decentralisation project in Serbia. Now, in this, the autonomous forces in Vojvodina saw their chance, with the help of international monitoring, to lead to something that does not exist in Vojvodina. And that's an unhealthy climate, it's nationalism and chauvinism (not that healthy nationalism and the awareness of the Serbian people about what is happening to him, but that of chauvinism), and in certain municipalities until Fascism occurs. Because this relationship with the Roma who have sought out other congregations is fascism to me. Let them say it's not. So, please, there's a lot of attention here when we're getting a new statute... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Thank you, Mr. Chairman... When we adopt the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, it will be a project of newly established will in the Vojvodina elections, a new parliament, and this is a prejudge. As for other issues, I call again, above all, DS, and then the SRS, and the DSS, and the SVM (to whom all this is not necessary), to take the issue of the autonomy of Vojvodina out of the hands of the autonomists and to solve it as the citizens of the Vojvodina deserve, for their sake, for the progress of the region, not to create political problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12126	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Shin, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12127	Dear fellow MPs, there are several truths about the status of the Roma national community in Serbia and Vojvodina, and there are several important things that we must all clearly separate. There are also a few truths about the Duke and the Roma, and there too we must clearly separate some things. It is true that only in Vojvodina there is an institutional framework for the realization and programme of Decada and improving the position of Roma. Unlike the existence of an institutional framework in Vojvodina, where there is a Council for Integration in the Executive Council of Vojvodina, where there is an Office for Inclusion, as part of which needs administrative, technical, professionally to support the process of improving Roma Vojvodina, unfortunately there is no such institutional framework in Serbia. And for this reason, many Roma in central Serbia say much has been done in Vojvodina without doing so much in other parts of Serbia. We also warned the prime minister of Serbia, and the director of the Human and Minority Rights Service, and the president of the Republic of Serbia, and here in parliament we spoke several times about it. I think that difference must be clear and that Serbian citizens must be very clearly explained. On the other hand, it is true that there is one decision in Senta that is in a negative way to all returnees in the process of reading and not citizens of the Municipality of Senta. Also, Deputy Mayor of Belgrade Mrs. Rada Hrustanovic said that only those citizens who are residents of Belgrade are interested in it below Gazela, and that those citizens who are not residents of Belgrade are not ready to implement the integration process. Unfortunately, it's still a current policy, a respected colleague, and if you here, at the pay phone, say it's not like that anymore today, I will support you and I will be the happiest to have those people under Gazela, whether they are displaced persons from Kosovo or where they are from, that the rehabilitation programme is in force here in Belgrade. It is also in Bujanovac, where the political party of Albanians is in power. They say this in Salvatore, a tent that exists, that they will only help them return to Kosovo without intending to integrate them into Bujanovac. I must tell you that analyses and research show that only 10% of Roma who have escaped from Kosovo are saying that they are even thinking about returning to Kosovo. It's a serious political problem. This is not the political problem of Vojvodina, it is Serbia's political problem and we need to think very seriously about it. I'm done, since the three minutes are up. ) Representatives of the Roma political party visited citizens in central Serbia who were affected by the flood. Unfortunately, in one of the homes of culture, it is said: you are saved there, you can go to that home of culture, but you cannot turn on the heater because there is no one to pay for that electricity that you spend. People's houses are flooded, they can't include heaters in their homes because they don't know who's gonna pay for the electricity. We've taken out of our modest budget these people milk and diapers for babies, but I don't think they should be doing political parties from their budgets and that's the obligation of the state. And come on, when we talk about Roma integration, about improving the position of the Roma, then let's talk about it in that function, about really caring about being these citizens and excluding it from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12128	I thank the People's MP Srdjan Shin. I'd like to go back to the president's law and talk about amendment number nine, and then we'll talk about other topics that are really very interesting. Here you go, Mrs. Hope. I expect Mrs. Kolundji will direct the discussion in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 103 with a request from the MPs to return to the agenda. I'm gonna take this opportunity, so I don't answer again. We are with the amendment to Article 9 of the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. On behalf of the Democratic Party, I would like to say that the DS will not support this amendment. From the point of view of the legal system, this amendment is something that comes out and is more than a constitutional provision and a provision known to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So, the constitution says that the president's incompatible function is with another public function and other professional engagement and does not mention political engagement as a premise for incompatibility of functions. That remains a political issue, of course. So this is a topic that we can discuss – whether it is a condition for the formation of democratic institutions or not. We will have various examples from various parts of the world, where somewhere, although that condition does not exist, does not preclude the essence of a democratic society, and that somewhere where it exists, it is not a guarantee to prevent it. And that's why DS doesn't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12130	I thank Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. The word is "Free Maras," according to the Rules of Procedure. He's not here. The word has Aleksandar Martinovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12131	Mr. Grouchy, get your time back to square one. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the League of Social Democrats wants, Vojvodina, that's clear to all. It is a party that hides behind the idea of Vojvodina's autonomy, and in fact wants the republic of Vojvodina separated from Serbia. Mr. Dusan Bajatovic has called here, among other things, and the SRS not to allow the new Statute of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina to be adopted. I would take this opportunity to call on the SPS, or the SPS parliamentary group at the AP Vojvodina Assembly, not to allow more, directly or indirectly, Bojan Pajtic and Kostreš to exercise power and, together with Serbian radicals, once and for all to remove the chair from that separatist, autonomous government in Vojvodina, and to finally become the formal again what it has always been, the basis of Serbia's Serbia's heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12132	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word is made by the MP Radovan Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12133	Mr. Vice President, I had no intention of going out for the first time to cause a delay in my work, but some have interpreted it that way. (President: What do we do? What I'm trying to say is that it would take the autonomists the right to talk about autonomy and lead to what the SPS wanted, that Vojvodina and all autonomy be erased, and we can see how they are wiped out and what they're leading to. This story, which we heard from Mr. Bajatovic, I listened to from 1988 to 2000 intensely, but, behold, I also have a chance at this 29th November to listen to it again. Don't make me happy, but I'll listen – tolerance is a miracle. About whether you have ever seriously heard of any LSV official that the League is considering any republic or whatever, take, please, and read this work version of our proposal for the Statute, compare what Mr Marton was saying with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and you will see that there is no basis. So the complete proposal is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And whether someone will ban or slow down the statutes, we do not claim that they will be brought in as we have proposed along with the SVM, but the statutes of the AP Vojvodina will be brought in and the Vojvodina will be. Whether it's nice or not, but that's how it's gonna be. Ever since I came to Belgrade, I've been listening here, in this room, telling stories: you lick this, and Dukes that, and this, and that. When the cameras go off and I talk to most of you, everyone nods their heads and says, well, you're right, but what are we going to eat? We offer nothing but to eat better together and to live much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12134	I thank Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Business, then MP Zarko Obradovic, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Excuse me, I apologize, Free Maras behind Dusan Bajatovic. I can't follow this dynamic debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12135	Dear counterpart Radovanovic, dear colleagues, I am very pleased to have you and my holiday, since today is a holiday of the former state and it is my birthday, in the Serbian Parliament to open the Vojvodina issue, I do not mind. We better discuss it here in the Serbian Parliament and see what we really think about the project of decentralisation of Serbia, regionalisation, but not according to the model of political regionalisation, but economically, and by the decentralisation project in terms of restoring property and empowering local self-government to do so, but you don't. So, in your program, the Social Democrats League programme and today, it says, "The Duke's Republic." So don't be mad at us. Another thing, which I will repeat, and just to respond to my colleagues from the SRS, as I do here, I am not interested in what radicals think, I am doing what I think is useful for the citizens of Serbia or for the existing political relations in Vojvodina or Serbia, and I will always vote on political conscience. I am for the autonomy of Vojvodina, but one that poses no threat to Serbia. That's where we'll be different from the SRS. Oh, my God, what are we gonna do? As for indirect or direct support, they say, Bojan Pajtic, I don't understand that member of the duchy parliament who won't vote for the 220,000,000-euro Capital Investment Fund this year, where the opposition is on the Supervisory Board or, for example, the SRS that did not support the Displaced Persons Fund. We can't just have a political approach because, above all, the SPS and the SRS have a moral responsibility to these people, like everyone else. 'Cause it was 1991, and it was 1996, and it was called a bomb, and there was everything. She never ran away from the political and moral responsibility of the SPS. Now let me go back to Mr. Autonomist. Why is this dangerous? Because Vojvodina's autonomy only existed within Serbia. The two years, I think, of church-school autonomy, when Serbs supported the battle of the Vienna Court against Hungarians, were lifted as soon as Vienna reconciled with Hungarian units. That was a thousand and eight hundred years ago. There was never any autonomy of the Vojvodina as a territory, nor of the autonomy of the Serbs in Vojvodina as we wish today. Many analysts warn that even if Vojvodina became independent, it simply could not survive because there are no conditions for it. Remember the projects of nine municipalities in the north of Vojvodina, and the kind of personal, cultural and political autonomy, and things like that. So it's very serious stuff. The call to take the autonomists' question of autonomy refers to the following, gentlemen of the radicals. We must have political responsibility, both us and you, and DSS and SVM. The issue of regulating Vojvodina's autonomy cannot be only in the domain of the Social Democrats League, but it should be agreed as soon as possible in the Vojvodina Assembly to replace the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, to temporarily create a new majority, however formed, that we do not have an unofficial ambassador of foreign affairs who spits his country on these trips, and to discuss elections for the Vojvodina Assembly. It's the only way we can go out with the programming differences in front of the people of Vojvodina, and then, in the atmosphere of choice, we'll offer all our programs. It will not be a question of the autonomy of the Vojvodina imposed. Because you know what's going on? Then in other parts of Serbia, people get us wrong. And I want Vojvodina, as well as Leskovac, as well as Šumadija, as well as Užice, as well as Kosovo and Metohija, to advance rather than open up political problems and then change that famous Belgrade with the New Sad. It's not our goal. Our goal is to work harder, to live better, to be free and to be on our own. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12136	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, and the National MP Zarko Obradović, and the MP Aleksandar Martinović, then the MP Rajko Baralić, all according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12137	Dear Vice President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with Mrs. Kolundzhija that it would be good to go back to the topic, but this situation, I suppose, is the most appropriate one for Minister Markovic who has not answered the question we have asked him. Or, just as he explained the law on the president, he read the members of the law, as he spoke today, first of all read the members of some laws, not giving concrete answers, i.e. explanations and explanations. I answered, first of all, because Mr. Bajatovic in his first address for this speaker, when he spoke about the autonomy of Vojvodina, found that the Constitution also regulated the issue of Vojvodina's autonomy, that is, the question that the autonomists had been asking for a long time – ''Where is our money? "At last and regulated by the Constitution. I don't think that's true. I believe that, in fact, the 7%, which has been introduced into attitude 184, is humiliation. But, Mr. Bajatovic, and the rest of the government, I address them first and foremost, when we analyze the budget, when Minister Cvetkovic is here, you will see that neither those 7% nor last year are respected. So the bill on the budget that we received decidedly shows that of those projected money that should go to the Vojvodina budget, that of those 7% and 44,000,000,000, at least three billion dinars are missing. Three weeks, that's what it says in Article 4 of the Budget Act, three weeks goes into capital expenditure, the rest, or nine billion, was given to the Minister without the portfolio of Gilas, or the one from the NIP office, the other nine billion, or up to eighteen billion, has been allocated to certain ministries. And there's over three billion missing. It's not an accident and it's not the first time. That's what happened last time. And that story that both the DS and the SPS, and others care that Vojvodina has autonomy, or that economic autonomy will, in this way, be billed, etc., is not true. Once again, there has been an outpouring, and again there is a lack of money to be poured into the Vojvodina budget from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but when Minister Cvetkovic comes, we will explain it all, item by item.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12138	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Marash. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I reported to the Rules of Procedure because the SPS was mentioned in the context of the SPS's relationship with the Vojvodina autonomy issue. You know what, dear colleagues and colleagues who mentioned it, we've had a lot of things put on our minds over the past few years and it's proven that everything, or almost everything, so that I don't end up imperative, was part of a marketing campaign led against the SPS. You can tell us this or that, but there is no more serious man in Vojvodina and also a broader man who could have ever set in a consistent, reasoned based way, a question or claim that the SPS did not respect the Constitution or that it had a negative relationship with the autonomy of the Vojvodina. The only ones who disagreed with the SPS policy, and the pro-relationship towards the autonomous provinces of the 1990s, were the same ones who opposed the adoption of the then new 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, were autonomists. Autonomouss, respected fellow MPs, those people who did not want either in 1988 or 1990, when adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to make Serbia a legal-terroral continent again. Why? They were in line with the 1974 Constitution, the confederalization of Yugoslavia, Serbia, replied that Serbia could not decide without the province's stance. It was appropriate for them to be masters for a little while, it was appropriate for them to be village princes or whatever, it was appropriate for them to be someone who was wondering, all in the name of the state and essentially against the state. Now, that's gone, and I'm very sorry it won't happen anymore. On the other hand, the move in 1988 and 1990 made Serbia a legal-terrorist single state. If it hadn't been for that, maybe today we could have talked about the Duke's question in another way. It seems to be regrettable that some can't get over, the ones from 1988 or their sequels. In the 1990s, we have shown a small million different ways to respect the Constitution and autonomy, to take care of the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to respect the people of the province. In the 1990s, the two prime ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia were people who were born and lived in Vojvodina. The number of ministers, deputies, assistants, people who, I say, worked directly as part of the state's apparatus, I won't even talk. Well, NIS headquarters has been moved from Belgrade to Novi Sad -- here's the question of money. And this thesis so we wouldn't have to eat if it wasn't for Vojvodina, it's so degutant that it's really not worth mentioning. I can't understand that today, in the XXI century, someone can use that kind of argument in a country that is unique. And what is the bottom line, what is the ultimate goal of such demands? Deintegration of Serbia, returning to 1804, 1835, or already, in 1830 or before the Berlin Congress, or the desire that simply Serbia does not exist as a state? It should be opened to the end, but this kind of argument that has been used absolutely cannot be put on our souls and we absolutely reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12140	I thank the People's MP, Zarko Obradovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of history, I must say the following. The war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia broke out due to the alleged wish of some former Yugoslav republics to establish the so-called. clean bills. Anyone who knows history knows that modern Croatian nationalism was 1971, so-called Maspok, created as a desire for foreign exchanges created in Croatia – to stay in Croatia without going to the so-called Hegemonist Belgrade. Vlatko Maček had previously presented a foreign exchange which, in fact, is repeated by these today's autonomists, his followers: the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket and the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder. It's about the same ideology, which is the same logic as today. All the money you make in Vojvodina to stay with us Dukes. What we care about is how people live in southern Serbia, how people live in Kosovo, it's important that all the money we make stays in Vojvodina. In that ideology, war began on the premises of the previous Yugoslavia. It was the idea of Franjo Tudjman, it was the idea of Milan Kucan, it was the idea of Ali Izetbegovic. All were running away from Belgrade as something, no one was nice under Belgrade's regime, and the same Belgrade regime brought them all freedom. Neither would Croatia today, nor would Slovenia, nor would there be such a radical Bosnia and Herzegovina, if the Serb army hadn't released all this in 1918. Nor would there be a Vojvodina today, as it is, if the Serb army hadn't entered the premises in the fall of 1918. As for the reason why we didn't vote for funds based on the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the matter is simple. These funds are nothing more than a major political fraud, namely an attempt to introduce the DS in Vojvodina as a guardian of the citizens of Vojvodina, among other things, a fugitive and displaced Serb people. All funds established at the Vojvodina Executive Council serve exclusively for the political marketing of DS. The presidents of the DS municipal committees in Vojvodina are members of the boards of directors of these funds. They decide who gets the money. Do you think that money can be obtained by any citizen of the Vojvodina? Go, Mr. Bayatovic, to the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina and ask them where you can get the forms you need to get a loan from that fund. They will tell you: sir, go to the DS municipal board in the municipality where you live, there you can get all the necessary information, pick up the documentation, and it would not be burning to join the Democratic Party on that occasion; we love all Serbs who came from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, but somehow we love Serbs who are members of DS. And that's the living truth. We will never vote for such funds, and yours is a shame, Mr. Bayatovic, which, voting for that decision, in fact, supported Bojan Pajtic and Bojan Kostreš.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12142	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, then the MP Dusan Bajatovic, then the MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12143	Mr. Vice President, I've reported in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I couldn't help but comment on what a distinguished colleague Radovanovic was saying here. So he did hurt the dignity of the National Assembly and injured the dignity of four or five million people in Serbia with a sentence: if there were none of them, these others would have nothing to eat. That's rude. Because, or I may not be well-informed, every kilogram of wheat produced by any peasants, even those in Vojvodina, must have paid someone in this country at a market price. In what sense do the Vojvodina grains end up on the Serbian citizens' tables except someone went to the bakery and bought bread? What's he talking about here? In addition, he said one more thing, that we, the MPs, allegedly when we don't talk to him about this officially, approve of his actions and nod our heads. Since I often participate in various congregation bodies with Mr Radovanovic, we welcome very politely and in the future, it is not a problem. I've never nodded on such a thing, nor could I support such a thing. So it's, in a sports, boxing jargon, let's say, a blow under the belt. That's not correct, and that's the basic thesis of the autonomist. What does that mean? In socialism the wheat was subsidized, there were guaranteed prices – come on, it was not good for them. A democratic state has now arrived, and the democratic state said this year by a government regulation: wheat exports outside Serbia are banned under market conditions. They were not punished by the SPS, but by the ruling coalition, let them address it. Then, after two months, they said that the regulation cannot survive, that the state's economy must operate on the basis of the market. So, I was born on Savinca near Takova, I live in Chačka, and you all live in other places. For God's sake, 200 kilos of flour is required for a four-member family a year. Does Mr. Radovanovic think he can't bear it on any ar of the country in Serbia today? It's a shame. I expect him to apologize, primarily to Serbian peasants and other Serbian citizens, because it doesn't make sense. For what he said, if it weren't for us, you wouldn't have anything to eat. He should make us responsible or inferior to him. Why? Because before 1990, there was a parliament that could not make a decision in Serbia unless the lawmakers of Vojvodina and Kosovo agreed. Well, the SPS is proud of what she did, what she brought together the people who said, yes, she can no longer have an MP from Vojvodina to have a voice twice on the same issue, and an MP from Chačka only once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12144	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic and then by MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12145	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, my colleague from the SRS tells me I should be ashamed of something, that I made something possible for Bojan Pajtic and Bojan Kostreš. Just as you can't get papers from them for what you'd like to do in local self-government, so the money from the New Now budget is not money, for example. Director of the city building office, where you are in power. They accuse you of investing only where you have votes. Then, for example, we have an affair with Ivana Dulic-Markovic – and I am not interested in individuals, I am interested in the principle of functioning of this country – so we have Ivana Dulic-Markovic who shared loans, they say, only to members of the G17, so this year we have a budget for agriculture 60,000,000 less because the woman did not arrive, while she was minister, to split the money. Now, I'm an opponent of this principle, and ideologies, that the people's money, created by the citizens of this country, is considered a party prey, that the development strategy, which has never been honestly offered in the last 15 years in Serbia, is self-sufficient and privatised. If we're so much for the people, then let's work for that people. I repeat, this ideologies, these bans, and feuds, these money that is prey to the deployment of political forces – they refer to you, too, gentlemen radicals. Let's not criticise ourselves the phenomena we're doing on our own. Somewhere our people behave like that. Is that good for the citizens? It's not. And that's the essence of things. They say you didn't take the lists well because they're incomplete. And for formal reasons, they don't give money, because you're political opponents. But also, where you're in power, there's nothing they can do because they're your political opponents. We're talking about a farmer having trouble selling wheat and not getting subsidies. Then what kind of political elite are we? What are we talking about? That's why I object, for this authority by Boris Tadic, that he can be both the president of the state and the president of the party, among other things. Because we are unconsciously, by our political decisions, by the parts of legal solutions and our practical behavior, in fact, creating a system basis for corruption, and we distribute the money by "where you go, you go." Where is the right attitude towards both citizens and development, so, if you will, and politics? And I carried a rifle in almost all wars, ultimately with Kosovo. Of course, neither the SPS nor the SRS nor any other Serbian party broke the former Yugoslavia. We know exactly who did it. And in The Hague, they don't judge the teams that did it, they judge the people who were elected to power here. That's where we, gentlemen of the radicals, agree, but don't let us call each other. Or, if you will, I'm prepared for some things I have the right to as a participant in a political game, for every distribution of money. When Pajtic proposed the Fund in the Executive Council, there were seven secretaries plus he in the fund, and the supervisory board. I've made an amendment to the board of directors from the opposition and he's from the opposition today. Let's control them. If they do as you say, let's condemn them, after all. Where does every stranger get convicted of what she did? To me, in the election. And you and me, and everyone else who participates here, in fact, we should call every phenomenon, every thieving thing. And today, I'm saying that every session (one more sentence, Mr. Chairman) needs to have a formal face from some court or UBPOK and to record what we're talking about. And on official duty to prosecute not only those who steal, but also those who violate the constitutional order of this country. I'm for it, and I'm not for Fascism from Sainta, I'm not for chauvinism as a kind of national awareness...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12146	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12147	... and similar things we could talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12149	Therefore, I call upon you, gentlemen, no matter what your conduct is. With eight billion euros we want to join the European Union, we want to reform Serbia. We are talking about economic growth resulting in an eight billion-euro budget. What can we seriously reform in Serbia with eight billion euros? If you still have an irresponsible political elite, I'm afraid we're just doomed to be here...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12150	I thank Mr Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12151	... We're talking, and the results are going to be very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12152	Please, Dushan, please. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12153	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I just called to make things clear. Why were certain parties opposed to the Constitution in the campaign before the adoption of the same? There are two basic reasons. The first reason is that the way that the Constitution was brought in, and it is well known to all of us that it was basically written by two to four men within a few days, with the assistance of the vice president of a party, and brought it in overnight, at great speed. The second is the very contents of this Constitution. What's important here to emphasize? That the government itself does not respect this Constitution, and we can say that from time to time, or very often, it does. I tried to explain how he was trampling through Article 184. The constitution, and how, for the second time since this government was formed, part of the budget that is scheduled to go to the AP Vojvodina budget is missing. It's also a dangerous thesis, Mr. Martinovic, that some of the things that are said here you're trying to connect with both Maspok and Vlatka Puss, or the tendency to keep asking the question ''Where is our money? '". It is entirely justified that every citizen of this country, not just from Vojvodina, raises the question of where what he has committed, or where he has earned it. Of course we want to, and that our whole policy comes down to everyone living off their work and letting everyone make as much money as possible. From Vojvodina, 27% comes to Serbia's budget and, of course, the citizens of Vojvodina can ask the question of where the money provided for Vojvodina is, that is, to enter the budget of the AKP. I repeat, it is scheduled to enter 44,000,000,000, according to the Constitution. That's at least 7%, as said. Every math shows, the figures mentioned in the draft budget law, that there are over three billion dinars missing. They're gone somewhere. The obaška that nine billion were given to Gilas, to manage them and to share them whenever he wanted, and to make sure that nine billion more were given to some ministers to govern them. I'm telling you that you can't compare people's desire with Maspok to one perfectly logical question: where is our money? First of all, I speak as a citizen of Serbia and as a citizen of Vojvodina. So, I have a right to know where the money we made is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12154	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word has been given by MP Rajko Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure as well. Did I get it right, or do you want to get the amendment? He can't do both, say how. You're experienced, you know the Rules of Procedure better than me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12155	Mr. Chairman, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 202a, it's about the current subject, and, of course, Article 226. In fact, many spoke yesterday about the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, citing different reasons, ranging from personal to party. This fact, ladies and gentlemen, just confirms that there is a need to discuss this issue, or a proposal, because this issue is certainly significant, both from the point of view of practical policy and from the point of view of theory, because the institution of the president, which some have talked about, is particularly about the fact that the President of the Republic is expressing state unity, deserves full attention and responsibility from us MPs. But the session, both yesterday and today, shows that those who do not have, unfortunately, adequate scientific and theoretical knowledge, that those who, for example, did not study Karl Korsh, George Zimel, Hedvig Hince, probably the world's greatest authority on these issues, or Ditrich Raushning, etc., are unable to make any sense of this issue and the problem. Mr. Minister, I therefore congratulate you, frankly, for taking the test for this House and bringing many of our colleagues to the test, including university teachers, who are experts in law. From my heart, I also congratulate you on my humble parliamentary salary, and I am prepared to extend a third to reward your colleagues who participated in the formulation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12156	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Rajko Gjuric. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? You've been saying so much, Dushan, I think you've said everything. Oh, good. Ivan Andric has two minutes. Excuse me, Ivan. Please get back to me in time, don't do this to me anymore. Come in on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12157	I'd like to say something when it comes to autonomous society in Vojvodina. In 1918, a statistical figure said that there were 350,000 Serbs in Hungary. There were around 75% of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in 1945. I'm comparing this because of the autonomists' intention to in any way increase the number of their sympathies, in any way. That's what DS, DSS, and the SPS in Vojvodina make a big contribution. So, as Mr Martinovic said, that the state interest is stronger than any internal interest, I think the SPS and the DSS should end co-operation with the autonomists in Vojvodina. Because when I compared in 1918 and 1945, there might be some 10-15 years to talk about how there used to be 10% of the autonomists in Vojvodina, and today, in that time, there might be 30%. If the state summit advocates, and Mr. President Boris Tadic, to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, let him also take Mr. Pajtic's mandate, that he is no longer president, because he is the only one, with the help of others, who holds the separatists in his hand for the sake of the position he is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12158	I thank the People's MP Vuceti Toskovic. The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric, two minutes, then Dusan Bajatovic, five minutes, per amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after an hour and something to get back to the story of the amendment that the LDP parliamentary group submitted to this bill. So we heard finally one argument from the biggest party in the ruling coalition. I can do it again as we understand it. I'll probably paraphrasise, but that's so - that in some democratic societies, the degree of democratisation is so much less necessary for this member of the law, and the others are so far away that this doesn't matter at all – from which we conclude that Boris Tadic, according to the DS, is some guarantee of our society's democratisation. Of course, we disagree deeply. I could talk for days about why I don't think so, but I'll just say one argument. It's a pathetic society, and it's basically a paradox, in which one person can be a guarantee of his democracy. It's practically impossible if society already pleads to be democratic. In our opinion, this issue is important because it should have shown a degree of understanding of the ruling coalition of democracy in general. The question of whether the president of the state can be party president shows no degree of democracy of one society. So we had Slobodan Milosevic who wasn't, so it didn't mean in itself that the country was democratic, but it showed at least some basic understanding of the concept of democracy. What is the result of what we will have today, since it is clear that the ruling majority will refuse this amendment? The result is, of course, a strong party president and a weak, or none, president of the state. Strong party president – because we will have the president of one of the parties who, for example, He's in charge of the Army, he's setting up ambassadors, he's in charge, he's in charge of the National Office. He's got all kinds of arguments. There is no stronger party president than that. On the other hand, we will have a weak president of the state because, when the vote is over and he remains party president, I speak for myself, I will continue to see the president of the party and not the president of the state, and that is the defeat of Boris Tadic after four years. He remains president of the DS for most of the country's citizens. He didn't become president of the state. So it's clear what will be the result of this whole process, but it's the choice of the ruling majority. And it will show the degree of democracy of our society, not the question of whether Boris Tadic himself... What we care about him, we don't care if he's the president of the DS or not. What's important is that we understand the motives here. The motives are simple. Boris Tadic was given the authority of the ruling coalition to remain DS President because it is the only possible way to make Vojislav Kostunica prime minister. If anyone else were in charge of the DS, he would not have allowed the mandate of the largest party, which won the most votes in the election, which belongs to the prime minister's mandate, to give to someone who speaks on behalf of less than 15% of our society and to have all political tools in his hands. That is why this amendment will not receive support, which is why the ruling majority decided to allow Boris Tadic to perform two public functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12160	I thank the MP Ivan Andric. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And earlier when I was discussing the bill, I was talking about this being one of the set of laws that needs to be solved by that constitutional law package, which should be described, in fact, by the authorities of this country. I think it is very important for the progress of democracy in Serbian society – which is what DS and DSS gentlemen, from the G17, there was then no New Serbia, in their move to power in Serbia -- that the role of the president of the state and the party president should be separated. I must tell you, unless we want our parties to be leaders, if we don't want our relations on the Serbian political scene to be as hard, with dug trenches, with party prey, politically unstable in the long run, and the way we fight politically in a negative sense, then we need to think that, by synchronizing with the European Union, we are also introducing practices from democratically stable societies. It is not good that there is an unimpeached leader in the party itself, because it speaks of its democratic potential, not even in society. Then we have a story about democracy, and we have one candidate for party president because others can never get that position. Also in society, because of the relationship of forces in the ruling coalition, where members of that coalition don't trust each other, but not because of politics, not because of money, but because of who's going to tear down, who's going to top who, as our people would say. Then we make some new institutes, some new customs in the negotiations, some new customs in the way the government works. I'm deliberately saying the customs. These are not the things that are founded by law, which you can overwrite from parallel practice somewhere abroad, which is favorite here. If we in our ranks, in our own party, are unable to defend what in the laws we propose verbally, then we are hypocrites. Then we talk to the people about great democracy, but we don't introduce that democracy. Even when we pass some laws, we don't apply them. So, please, I think this is one principle thing. Is that a political commitment by those who first call themselves democratic options in Serbia supposed to stand in this law or should it not stand? This is not legally controversial, but it points to the intensity that we continue to hold a strong president of the state as a party figure and a strong Prime Minister as a party figure. And where, then, is Article 1 or those members of the Government who speak of that they should work in order to maintain the interests of the people, and perhaps at certain times, and because of possible events, e.g. about Kosovo and Metohija, or Raška districts with Wahhabi, or internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue – to express also national unity? If we were serious in Article 1, the majority coalition has no reason not to accept in Article 9 that the president of the state, regardless of his political capacity being reduced by not having to choose 51% of the total number of voters, but 51% of those who went out in the second round, so the political weight has been reduced, if we are serious in Article 1 that he expresses state and national unity, then the amendments are fully justified. He must give up his party functions because of the reduced capacity he receives in the elections. So, I don't want to talk about Boris Tadic, or Slobodan Milosevic, or Tommy Nikolic, or Velija Ilic, or I don't care what they're called. Here is the essence of the following - if Article 1 requires the President, if the Constitution so requires, to express state and national unity, then he, having been directly elected by the citizens, must give up his party functions. In practice, in order to be elected President of the Republic, this shows the history of multilateral and multilateral elections, you have to get a lot more votes than your party gets. Therefore, it means that, if you were elected president, those who did not vote for your party voted. Some say that it is not possible to regulate everything by law, but it is very good that some political morality, because this can also be a moral question for those who are president, to base a little bit in a legal solution, so that it depends not on man, but depending on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12162	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word of the messenger of the people is Jaroslav Hrebik, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Hrebick.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12163	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have called before, but you have not seen me, according to Article 104. I felt the obligation to respond to what was said and to be used for this congregation talk, and it is not true. In fact, there's a lot of talk here about politics and political presentation. This time, the topic of Vojvodina autonomy is used, from the angles of various political parties, including those parties that are against the autonomy of Vojvodina. A colleague from the SRS said Boris Tadic should withdraw Pajtic's mandate. Well, his father didn't leave it to him, so he could share and lift whatever he wants. It's one function, it's one institution that's given the Constitution of Serbia, and it can't just be taken away like you think, so that you have 51%. The autonomy of Vojvodina is a fact that is undeniable, and I think it sucks to prove it here at all. That's how it is, and it can't be changed, it can only be improved. As regards the transparency of spending on capital investment funds in Vojvodina, we, as a party of G17, are about to make it more visible and to know what the criteria of the competition and how the money is distributed, but this also applies to Novi Sad, for the City Building Institute, simply so that citizens know how their money is spent. Mr. Bajatovic also mentioned Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who has done a lot in the Ministry of Agriculture, which Mr. Bajatovic knows himself, and the farmers who have felt it best on their skin and it is a shame that Ivana Dulic does not do so. But, Mr. Bayatovic, your policy has already been seen and we know that you don't understand that we are thinking long-term, some long-term pathways. Not just words, but deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12164	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure only for the discussion of my fellow Marash. I don't think there's any justification for the skepticism of the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the Vojvodina budget. According to the Constitution, it's seven percent. That's 44.4 billion. Four weeks or 25.4 billion are scheduled to be regular expenditures, and three weeks or 19,000,000 dinars to be capital expenditures. It's so defined and there's no reason to be skeptical that it won't be like that. Because in the part of our budget, which is scheduled, 67.2 billion or 10.3% are transfers to local authorities, and of which, within that position, 31,000,000,000 for Vojvodina. Nine billion are foreseen from the NIP, but not as Mr Maras said, that directly the NIP will decide which capital expenditures will be financed, but in a financial sense transfer nine billion to the Vojvodina budget and the Vojvodina authorities will define where these capital expenditures will be spent. So 31 plus nine is 40, and another 4.4 billion are other capital expenditures that will be transferred from NIP funds to Vojvodina. A total of seven percent or 44.4 billion. So, I don't think there's really any reason to be skeptical. Maybe it's small, and that's what you should say, but it's small for everyone. How many of us do you think from the province, from the interior, some of these transfer funds, given the degree of development, or underdevelopment? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12166	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Vujadinovic. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for three and a half hours now, I think we're discussing the amendment of counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic and nothing wrong with that. An important institute, or a sub-institute, is being discussed, or the accent is being placed on whether or not there is a conflict of interest in the situation where the head of state is at the same time the head of the political party. We heard observations both political and political, cultural and sociological and, of course, legal. I would stick to constitutional and legal observation, calling and consulting three members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are members of 6, 55 and 120. Let me quote Article 6. The Constitution: 'No one can perform a state or public function that is in conflict with its other functions, business or private interests'. Item 2: 'The existence of conflict of interest and responsibility in its resolution shall be determined by the Constitution and by law'. The only relevant law in this case is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and it has clearly defined what a conflict of interest is and how it is resolved. The Institute of the President of the Republic in line with the political party's role simply does not exist in the regulation. The 55th article is even more explicit, and I refer especially to that group in parliament that led an extremely affirmative campaign for the adoption of this constitution. In his final position, Article 55 states: "Judges of the Constitutional Court, Judges, Public Prosecutors, Protector of Citizens, Policemen and members of the Army cannot be members of political parties". If the constitutional author, the constitutional author, as it is said, had the intention to highlight the existence of a conflict of interest between the President of the Republic or the President of the Parliament or Prime Minister, this would surely have been in the position of Article 5(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, we can also go from, as the esteemed colleague Batić lists: telelogical, conceptual, linguistic and logical interpretation of the rules, and I would also quote the provision of Article 120. The constitution, and I don't think Mr. Secretary mentioned it. Article 120. The Constitution speaks of the legal situation of replacing the President of the Republic. If we accept that there is a conflict of interest between the heads of the political party, which is also the head of the state, or the President of the Republic, then it would appear here that even the president of the National Assembly cannot be the head of the political party, and this situation can hypothetically exist. "When the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duty or his term of office has expired before the time he is elected, he is replaced by the President of the National Assembly." So I'm sure the Constitution in Article 120 would provide for this situation. All of these are, in my opinion, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, arguments that support the solution given in the draft of this law and that no amendment should be accepted by a respected fellow MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12168	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12169	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I don't understand at all a colleague from G17 plus who answered, unfortunately I don't know his name. I quoted the agriculture minister, who informed the Serbian public that in the distribution of the agricultural budget, the funds would be reduced by 60,000,000 for the reason that the previous ministry did not allocate funds to farmers. That's your coalition partner. Maybe I'd like to do Ivana Dulic-Markovic something about love within agriculture, that I'm interested in it, but I'm not interested in it. I'm interested in why today the Serbian peasant will have a minus of sixty million in the budget, which is asking for more anyway, in conditions where you haven't given as a government an agrarian budget, where we don't have a real agrarian bank, where we don't have a real development bank. That's your coalition partner, the current agriculture minister, said. Why are you angry? Sit down and discuss it in the government. As far as the G17 plus long-term works here, it's true. You're an IMF and World Bank exposure here, and I don't mind. You read their faxes, translate and want to implement that economic policy in Serbia. On the other hand, the exact opposite, which is true, is that, while the IMF, and otherwise it's a semi-destructive institution which is currently seeking its identity within the world banking system, has not come out of the country, there has been real development. We can talk about that too. Of course, you owed us $800,000 after Labus owed us five billion with one signature. We can, gentlemen, talk about whatever you want and refinance, but I guess that'll be when the budget's up. So I'm asking my colleague from G17 plus not to get me wrong. So, your coalition partner, who is the current minister of agriculture in the government, has presented this information. If they are not correct, I ask you to leave or the Minister of Agriculture to come and deny us. As for the fact that you work long-term, I would ask you to speak with more dignity and attention about the SPS because I am not sure that citizens in Serbia, at least by the research that you love so much, your work is as valuable as you are to yourself. I've never told anyone here, even in the finest form, that she's stupid and I probably won't. And if he's not well informed, that's another question now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12170	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12171	Thank you. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. It was misread what we were saying. For a gentleman from the DS, president of the Legislative Committee. At no time in this previous four hours, no one said Boris Tadic could also be the president of the DS under the law, because the law is now being discussed. It's our job to get it into the law. There is no need to answer us and to read to us the members of the Constitution about conflict of interest and to quote to us the Law of Conflict of Interest. This is a law concerning the President of the Republic. It will stand here as a conflict of interest for the President of the Republic. He won't stand in law regarding boards, we know that. I'll do it again. The point and essence is that you wrote in the Constitution, in Article 111, that the President of the Republic would express the unity of the country. Here, in the last two hours, while talking about Vojvodina, that's where the unity of the country turned out. It doesn't exist. And Boris Tadic thinks staying as DS president will prove he's fighting for the idea. That's not true. That's what you'll see when he's no longer president of the DS. Then it will be clear what DS could do and how it is actually fighting to solve these problems. But that's not what I wanted to talk to you about. You have the majority, the majority will vote everything, and everything will be by law, but that doesn't mean it's good, and that's true, and that's how it is everywhere. Nowhere in the world has the president of the country elected directly to perform the role of party president. It's easy to determine. We can't be the only ones who claim otherwise and think we're right. Believe me, we're wrong. In Macedonia, when the president of the state was elected in direct elections, he is tearing up his party's membership book before all MPs. Yes, sir, believe me. It is part of a protocol that he becomes president of Macedonia, which he symbolically says: I am no longer a member (even a member, not a official) of any party. We'll say one more time: all you're doing is, as far as we're concerned, okay, just don't convince us it's good for the state, because it's not. The results are seen after three or four years, after Kostunica's first government. We will repeat once again: you have most, not because it is good, but for Vojislav Kostunica to remain prime minister. And don't quote us other members of the Constitution or the law now. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12172	I thank the MP Ivan Andric. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Please, let's finish this amendment anyway. There's another amendment that also gives us a chance to talk about these things. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12173	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President, I wanted to say something to Mr. Ratkovic that when he calls on some parallels, it should have its own logic. Mr. Ratkovic, in order to deny the validity of the amendment of the LDP parliamentary group, which I also belong to as DHSS MP, you have made a parallel with the president of parliament. It's no good, Mr. Ratkovic. It's not a good parallel, no logic, even less legal. Why? Because they are MPs in parliament's assembly, they are members of political parties, the parliament's president is elected out of the line. So by definition, he's a member of the political party. The President of the Republic is elected directly and he does not have to be a member of some political party, he may also be an extra-party person. So don't mix your grandmothers and frogs. Never make a law against a person, no matter who it's about. As soon as I've taken the floor, I hope the current president of the Republic will have a bit of a good will to receive a delegation of the Toplician County's reserve. As we speak, there are protests in Kursumlia. There's 20 cops and police buses. There's chaos, the crowd is yelling at them: go to Kosovo, etc. Why? Because people are looking for their rights. I'm trying to help them. Five days from last Friday, I can't reach the head of the President of the Republic's cabinet, I'm leaving messages, I'm asking you to settle the meeting. Be careful, it's the head of the cabinet now. Why? Because I'm looking for me, who's from the opposition DHSS. I hope the president isn't a bureaucrat, he'll understand the legitimate requirements. One of your members, Mr. Ratkovic, a local party official, the most important local official in a town in Toplički County, charged the daily fee. Serbia can't be a mother to someone, it can't be a stepmother. It is therefore important that the President of the Republic, who was also the defence minister, understands these legitimate requirements. You know what happened in the court of Kursumlia? The members of the judge's family received compensation for the suffering fear of bombing. And those who have been in eunuchs and trenches for days, hours, months, they wander, they break their thresholds, and they cannot charge for anything that is fair. And this parallel doesn't work for you, you need to find someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12174	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. The word is Jaroslav Hrebik, MP G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12175	Dear Members of Parliament, Chairman, I am reporting in accordance with Article 104. I won't answer by that member again, after this, to continue on the agenda, but I have to answer to the SPS gentleman, I don't remember his name... (Dusan Bajatovic, from the scene: And you just knew? )......................................................................................................... I forgot. Let me, please, I'll be done soon. It is repeatedly said that some political parties, since they do not seem to have other ways and models to communicate with their voters and citizens of Serbia, because their ideas are old and already told, are trying from this place, and this is a great pity for this entire institution, that they are abused, as the gentleman did just before, just to place a story of their own, and not to work in the interests of this institution, in the interests of the citizens who choose it. But that's probably going to show up in the next election. Then I'd like to meet again and talk about some issues, but somewhere else and not this pay phone. Please, when you talk about this pay phone, you choose the words you talk about and how you use them. This is the Serbian Parliament, this is the assembly pay phone, and we would have to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12176	I thank Mr. Hrebik. Please, let us finish this amendment. No more. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The amendment reads... You're getting very excited. Oh, for God's sake. Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12177	Article 104(2) Since the gentleman introduces order here and teaches us that Article 104 of Article 2 states that MPs must respectfully relate. I don't need a microphone. [[Telephones from bench: No microphone.]] What do I need it for? That's what I put up with on the record, otherwise I don't. This is one historic debate between the SPS and the G17 plus. I'm going to really do my best after this presentation, and I apologize to my colleague honestly, and politically I'm going to try to find out what your name is, because it's obvious that there's a bright future ahead of you. About whose ideology it is, I don't want to judge it here. That's what voters in the election are about. And as for you, gentlemen of the G17, you and we will have the opportunity to fight for participation in this House. Whom they will not be – they show the final polls, if they believe them. You need a little more to catch up on that SPS score. What is good and what is related to your party, and what is not good for Serbia's political scene, shows that it is not possible to destroy the SPS and that it is possible to buy 5% in Serbia's elections. If you want to discuss it further, go ahead. I don't mind. But then the Minister of Agriculture should come, since you are not one moment behind this speaker, which I allegedly abuse, and of course you are using because of the general interests, you have not denied the fact that your coalition partner, the minister of agriculture, the successor of Ms. Ivana Dulic-Markovic, that farmers in Serbia have remained deprived of significant funds because those funds in the cutting-up of the last budget were not spent as needed. If that's not true, even though you said you wouldn't go out for this pay phone, come out and deny me. Because of your domestic policy, we have a problem with peasants, privatising agricultural properties, destroying Serbian agriculture. It is the legacy of Ivana Dulic-Markovic. If you'd like to talk about it, it'll be a matter of Parliament, too, if the Minister of Agriculture comes. I'm even up for Mrs. Dulic-Markovic to come and let's separate what politics is in DS and what's G17, let's see where you agree, and where you differ even though you're sitting in the same government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12178	Do any of the SPS MPs want to comment on this? It's hot. Here you go, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12179	Thank you. I volunteered to try to do what we did yesterday. We, the SPS MPs, seem to me, were talking yesterday all day and this morning, about the content of the law on the president. And we intend to keep doing it that way. And we also have a need, a party and an MP, to contact us always, and we will always call, whenever any of the MPs feel they need to call the SPS. And we are, believe me, ready to respond. That's what we'll do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12180	I thank Zarka Obradovic. Does anyone else have anything to say about this amendment to Article 9? No, there isn't. Thank you. The 9th amendment was also submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Who wants a word? There's five minutes left. (Miletic Mihajlovic: I cannot expose in 5 minutes. If you can't finish in five minutes, I'll take a break. Resume session at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12181	I apologize for the little delay, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We had a meeting of the heads of parliament. We're continuing our work. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12182	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9(1). The bill says: "The President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity". The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club adds: ''and the party', which means it would read: the President of the Republic cannot perform another public and party function or professional activity. There's been a lot of talk here about what the definition of public functions is. Mr. Minister, I mean, quoted from the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but I don't think such a definition is appropriate to define this term. If we talk about what the Constitution is, what should come from the Constitution or that the provisions of the Constitution are detailed – it does not work out, therefore – then it cannot be explained by some individual law here what is a public function. So, so far, achieving a civilizational level and experience are giving an answer to the question of what is a public function. One such definition is given in the encyclopaedia, and it is said: the term public function in a broader sense means to perform the tasks necessary for the performance of any public organisation’s tasks, on any basis, on the basis of public, general or other elections, or on the basis of appointments. Furthermore, the text states: each public office is subject to specific duties and needs of rights which should enable certain public tasks to be carried out. The importance of rights and duties is a special social role to be played by a relevant public organisation. The relative public organisation is the Democratic Party, represented by its president, who performs the post and, by this definition, performs a public function. The special social role of the relevant organisation, in this definition, in this case of DS, is certainly what political engagement is based on which DS acts publicly in the public of Serbia and the international community. Therefore, the president of the DS is also a public figure, i.e. performs a public function. The fact that most MPs defend the view that this is possible and that there is no conflict of interest, means that we have a return to the political system. Although you are acting as an elite political party that looks ahead, which is pro-European, you have role models in the past. In fact, it's a return to Tito's time, because Joseph Broz Tito was president of the Republic and president of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, and it's a party state. And we have a tendency to this one system here, because you're suggesting that your party is not only dominant, but someone here has already said it is heading towards a one-party system. I think that, and you remember well, Slobodan Milosevic took a step towards separating these functions. I will remind you, in October, the Second SPS Congress was held, where Borisav Jovic was elected as party president, and Milosevic was president of the Republic of Serbia. At the next congress in 1996, Slobodan Milosevic was re-elected as SPS president. He froze his post and did not appear in public as party president. Of course, we can argue about this and prove who's right and who's wrong. However, a step towards democratisation has certainly been made and in the direction of liberating a state function from the political party's influence. And above all, it is necessary for the role of the President of the Republic to be free of the political party's influence. After all, you shot Slobodan Milosevic among other things and because of that fact. And then, when he's no longer in power, you do not just what he did, if he's wrong, but you do much more, I mean much worse. This is not about the constitutional right that every citizen can be a member of a political party and no one forbids the President of the Republic to be a member of the party, but the amendment suggests that he does not also perform a party function because we consider it a public function. So, according to that logic, if he can act as president of one party, then he could also be the leader of some NGO or president of some sports club, "Partizana", "Red Stars", so I don't know how to reflect his engagement on that sports public. After all, it doesn't matter who it's about. We are personalising this situation because of the fact that Serbia's current president, Mr Boris Tadic, is also party president. But tomorrow it could be Tomislav Nikolic, the day after tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, could be Ivica Dacic. Well, being, it doesn't matter the time, Mr. Minister, your coming here to power. They're all fleeting. Fortunately, you're also passing. You'll agree with me, everything flows, everything changes, it's a natural law, and we don't need to convince ourselves. I'll talk about another aspect. Please, sovereignty comes from citizens who do it. That's what the Constitution said. This sovereignty of citizens also goes through its freely elected representatives. This conveyed sovereignty must not be misused but at least fail. And how does she fail? The president of the state can't run an election campaign for parliamentary or local elections to say, "Oh, we're going to beat them." Now I'm asking, who's the president going to beat? He was put in a position to defeat his citizens, those citizens who transferred their own sovereignty to him, to exercise power. Is that okay? It's at least inconclusive. This is about a state function that expresses state unity between state and citizen. And he must be above all politics. When it comes to politics, it is said here, and you, Mr. Minister, have said, well, what kind of policy he would be, so I don't know, he came to that place with certain political beliefs, etc. Of course, it has its political beliefs, but when it comes to power, it assumes the role of the President of the Republic, by the Constitution and by law, the policy of this country determines and leads the Government, and the President of the Republic represents the state and that policy in those frameworks. He can't stick to his politics anymore. It could happen that the established policy is quite different from the Democratic Party's policy in a specific case. You're not right this time at all. There are so many arguments stemming from both the Constitution and the logic of democratic practice that you should adopt this amendment. If you couldn't, wanted or had some other third reason not to adopt the LDP amendment, Cedomir Jovanovic, there was an opportunity for you, after such an explanation, to adopt the SPS amendment, which I submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12183	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. I shall inform the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 85(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we will be working after 1800 hours, I hope not too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12184	Thank you. We didn't understand what it means after 6:00 p.m., or until when, and whether a direct transmission of that work was provided after 6:00 p.m., but well, we'll talk about it when the time comes, we're not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12185	Allow me, Mrs. Radeta, to say, as long as we have a TV feed, we'll be working. I hope it's maybe 2:00, I don't think we'll be working any longer. And it's never going to happen that the Assembly is working without any TV transmissions, you know that very well yourself. So don't worry about it, the MPs will work, and there will be TV transmissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12186	Thank you very much. You'll make a good president. On the agenda, we had an amendment to Article 9, that is, we discussed Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's amendment for several hours in the afternoon, and here we are now continuing, but according to the SPS amendment. The amendments are almost identical and, as far as we're concerned, we don't care which of these two amendments the Minister would accept on behalf of the Government because, in any case, or one or the other amendment would correct the text of the law. We will vote in the day of the vote, and I call on the other Members of the People to do so, to vote for one and the other amendment. Since they are almost identical, one of these amendments may happen and be adopted, and then this article of the 9th proposal for Boris Tadic really looks like the law. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the period when the Law on the financing of political parties was passed in this House. At that time, you were convinced that DOS would have a two-thirds majority in this House, and then you passed quite a broad-ranging law. We said it wasn't good at the time, but that law is still in force today, and that law today bothers you. You now have a problem with why some parties, who have more MPs than you, are getting more funding from the budget. I note this in order to be aware of the fact that today's law on Boris Tadic will soon be a law on the President of the Republic. So when you look at the amendments, you have every moment in your mind. I would like to remind you that the proposal is that Article 9, which says firstly, 'The President of the Republic cannot perform another public function or professional activity', adds 'and party'. Today we have heard so many arguments why it is necessary to adopt an amendment like this, one or the previous one. I will not repeat these arguments, but it is completely unclear, incomprehensible and unacceptable why this amendment is bothering you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can't and you haven't convinced us it's unconstitutional. You didn't convince us it was legally unfounded. You know that, and then I don't know what it's about. Is it just your spite or is it just what you, Mr. Minister, here at one point, are so upset, said: behold, it is not logical that the President of the Republic, in particular Boris Tadic, does not advocate the ideas of the Democratic Party even though he is the President of the Republic. That can't happen, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here, let me give you an example. Boris Tadic and DS are openly and publicly pushing for Serbia's NATO entry. Can Boris Tadic, as president of the state, say that? I tell you not to, because he did not ask the citizens of Serbia, because all polls show that more than 80% of Serbian citizens do not want us to join NATO. But we listen daily to Boris Tadic, the president of the state, where at his party meeting, he and the DS head of the party are pushing for Serbia's NATO entry. We listened to him during the election campaign, when he said they were doing evil, that he had to win that evil. Could such a man be the president of all citizens? Of course he can't. That's why we think these amendments are good, that they should be accepted. No matter what the law is not passed for an individual, although you are this one, I have repeated several times, painted for Boris Tadic, but when we talk about any law, any area to edit, we all use some or positive or negative examples, thus confirming our arguments why we are in favour or against the law. We have the best argument – Boris Tadic himself, as president of the DS, who, we often say, falsely represents that the president of Serbia is not acting as president of Serbia. And you, Mr. Markovic, if you will not accept this amendment, then you have no motive at all not to accept our amendment to Article 1 of this Law, because it is in full colluding to what you wrote to Article 1, that 'the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia', which is actually Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and here you do not allow the President of the Republic to be prohibited from performing party functions. You were trying to convince me, I don't know who, you certainly didn't manage yourself, that party functions weren't public functions. It was really something I couldn't believe to hear from someone who was a minister. But then I remember those days after 9 October, when you here, from this place, convinced us that Mr. Alimpic was regularly elected as Belgrade mayor and president of the Belgrade City Assembly. So after our persistent explanation here, following a decision by the Committee on the Local Self-Government of the Serbian Parliament, you made a decision that was correct, but that was completely contrary to what you were saying right after that October 8th and 9th, respectively. We've passed at least four or five laws here that prove that you're building a party state and we've talked to you about it every time. You have also made a party state through the Government Act, through the Law on State Servants, and through the Constitutional Court which will be two-party (five Democrats and five DSS), and now you will also want the president of Serbia. Only, unfortunately for you, Serbia's president is elected citizens, so this law will certainly not be applied to Boris Tadic, so be assured of that. I repeat because of you, because it's hard to get into your head. You can say it 25 times, you don't get it, but I'm not really an expert for that. I remind you that you, as a Democratic Party, act from the level of the local community to the level of the president. Here, now you have, let's say, in a local community in the municipality of Kula, the local community of Kruščić, elections for authorities in the local community. And what did the president of the municipality of Kula, the Democrats, do? He went to the pensioner's home in the village of Kruscic, said he would paint them and arrange offices just to vote for their candidate. Turned a man, sent a team, painted offices in yellow with blue pillars. What's going on now? No pensioner in Krustic will enter that room. Now they're asking the president of the county or the other hall or to paint it. This is how you act so narrowly that we can't really trust you, especially when it comes to the law on the President of the Republic. So, I repeat, I won't convince you of what you've already heard, I won't repeat what's really very professionally explained to you, but if you don't accept it, then we need to know that you represent what you could have said as a lapus when you said it was logical that Boris Tadic advocated the principles of the DS. When you were most upset, you tried to explain why you wouldn't accept this amendment and you said that at all levels, we should ban politics, all officials, not just when the name B appears. You wanted to tell Boris Tadic, so you retired. You realized that this is not Boris Tadic's law, it's the President of the Republic. Don't smile, take a stenogram, I think all the MPs who listen carefully to anyone who comes from here to the MPs noticed that you said that. And it doesn't make sense, Mr. Milan Markovic, that the judge can't even be a member of the party, let alone a functionary, and that the president of the state can be a party official. We also heard the fact that there are some countries in the world and such solutions. They're probably countries with more developed democracy. Serbia, unfortunately, and especially thanks to you since 2000, has not. Just smile, because you have "democratic" in your titles, has nothing to do with democracy and all the citizens of Serbia know it, you know it, of course, but there you are. I don't just know how long you're gonna make it, and how many Serbian citizens are gonna take you. We are convinced, we from the SRS, that it will not be long, as we promise that Tomislav Nikolic will not use the privileges of this law that you will adopt. Of course, I mean Tomislav Nikolic as president of the state. And, Mr. Milivojevic, the president of the Serbian Radical Party is Professor Vojislav Seselj. And yet you challenge me to tell you that I'm sorry that you killed your president, we fought for ours and how we fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12187	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and then a National MP, Prof. Dr. Zoran Shami. You've got three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12188	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, because of the rigidity of the business provisions that exist about the time MPs can use and talk about the amendments, which I believe are obviously very important for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, MPs have spoken about the previous and this amendment, which are almost identical, for a little while longer, and today even according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This solution, which provides that the President of the Republic cannot perform another public and is added to party, or professional action, we find it essential to support constitutional solutions that speak of the separation of functions and the inability to perform the public and political functions of this carrier of the buffalo executive authority. Let's remind you, colleague Ratkovic quoted article 55 today. The constitution, which speaks of freedom of association, which says that judges of the Constitutional Court, judges, prosecutors, Protector of Citizens, etc. they cannot be members of political parties, and since it is not covered by the President of the Republic, it is not, in fact, relevant to it. But here we are not even trying to say that the President of the Republic cannot be a member of the political party, but that he cannot be a carrier of office, and most often the President of the Republic is also the President of the Party who has run for office. We think it's wrong for many reasons. My colleagues spoke of the incompatibility of public functions and professional activity. It can also be discussed whether the party president is, in that sense, a professional function because, if someone lives off that function, it is professional. We had an example, unfortunately, that the president of the Republic, now Boris Tadic, has, on several occasions, brought citizens of Serbia into a position to think and to doubt whether he performed as president of the Republic or as president of the DS in certain performances. Of course, the various consequences of his performances were different, but the citizens could have been put into a situation to wonder what quality he performed. For example, in 2005, when current President Boris Tadic went to Srebrenica to apologize on behalf of Serbia for a genocide for which no one was even convicted in The Hague tribunal, he failed to go to Bratunac, where at the same time marked the great anniversary of the Serbian people's suffering. He didn't want to go there, he went to Srebrenica. Serbian citizens could have wondered if the position of the president of the Republic, i.e. Boris Tadic, was his position as president of the Republic or as president of the party. Also in 2006, you remember the meeting of Boris Tadic with Agim Ceku at Skopje airport. Then the president of the Republic, along with DS President Boris Tadic, met with terrorist and war criminal Agim Ceku, declared him a soldier. And then we could ask ourselves if he said that as president of the DS or as president of the Republic. In 2007, in an interview in Zagreb, he apologized to Croatia for all the war crimes Serbia has committed. Although the Croats expelled over 500,000 citizens of Republika Srpska, or representatives of the Serb people, he went to Zagreb to apologize. Did he apologize as president of the Republic or as president of his party? Does he live in a villa on Lackovic Street as president of the Republic or as party president? They're dilemmas that can always be set up. In order to avoid this, I think it is perfectly correct that most accept the amendment, which provides that the President of the Republic cannot be the bearer of another public function, in this case political, or party functions. I think that this will make the situation much clearer and much better profiled and that the President of the Republic will in the clearest way, in accordance with Article 111. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, indeed to be the bearer of the trust of all citizens of Serbia, to express the unity of the Republic of Serbia and in its own way to perform a function, fortunately and gratifying all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12189	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12190	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me say immediately that I have no intention in any way to offend the applicants of these two amendments that speak of Article 9 - I agree with Mrs Radet, they are the same amendments – but I want to make one of my views. Don't be angry, it doesn't matter whether this assembly accepts or doesn't accept the amendment. I mean, in that sense, the amendment simply doesn't matter. Now I'm going to try and explain it. It is clear that the future president, or future president of Serbia, will be representatives of some political party. It's very unlikely that it's going to be some sort of advance non-partisan personality. Suppose someone has been elected President of the Republic and that someone resigns to his party functions, party president or any other function he performs. Do you think, on the one hand, that he will cease to have any influence in his party still? Do you really think that in 1992, we were reminded by counterpart Mihajlovic, when Slobodan Milosevic was no longer the SPS president, Mr Jovic led the party? Also, do you think that someone who, as a representative of a party, became President of the Republic, will cease overnight to advocate those ideas stemming from that party? This, of course, has nothing to do with him being the president of all Serbian citizens, which is, of course, required by the Constitution to protect Serbia's interests, regardless of what its party plans and positions are on some issues. The President of the Republic, of course, will have to take care of the interests of the Serbian state in accordance with the constitution. If it doesn't, then it will violate the Constitution and then, of course, it comes under the influence of some other members of this law. So the whole story on this subject seems hypocritical and demagogue. The essence of the matter is to ensure that the President of the Republic works in the interests of the state, and his political beliefs and political beliefs of his party, of course, no one will change, nor will he himself begin to advocate other beliefs. Here, let's say, if Mr. Dacic is elected president of Serbia, do you think he will no longer enter the SPS, that there will be no influence on the SPS policy and that, on the other hand, he will change his political views, and then he will represent the views of one, the other, the third, the fifth party? I'm glad you're picking up the line. I'm saying, I didn't in any way want to demean the amendment promoter. I just don't think this subject deserves an excessively large debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12191	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the reply, and then he proposes the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12192	As a representative of the amendment's motion, I really need to respond to this story about it being hypocritical to ask the President of the Republic not to lead the political party. Mr. Shami, since you came to power, we have passed many laws in which many citizens of Serbia have been banned from being members of political parties, based on function. You have now, here, the Security Service Foundation Act, so there says that a member of the BIA must not be a member of the political party. On what basis are you now saying that it's not hypocritical? Or maybe Rade Bulatovic isn't a member of the DSS? What now is hypocritical, our pledge that the President of the Republic cannot be president of a political party or your claim that it can be and that it is hypocritical if we ask him to leave the office of party president? Vladimir Putin is the president of Russia. Who's the president of his party? Grizzlow. You don't know anything about it. He may be party president if he becomes Prime Minister in parliamentary elections, but as President of the Republic, he respects the constitution. The main thing is that every moment he shares his personality, when he performs as president of the party, when he performs as president of the Republic. You can consult with him and have your party run informally, but he can't formally. It's not hypocrisy. Of course he is the most influential man in the DS, Boris Tadic, but when Serbia accepts him as its president, it cannot be seen as the president of a party. It is not Serbia's duty to put up with the president of the party as president of the Republic. She doesn't have to, because it's a prelude to disputes. So whenever you insult him, you're right. He is the party's president, you refer criticism to the party president, to the party president's disrespect. You have no duty to respect him as President of the Republic because you always address him as the president of the opposing party. And I would like to have the President of the Republic, all of whom will speak with respect, who will end his term as President of the Republic, who, for every meeting of his, in the course of the day, the month, will be held accountable as President of the Republic. How can you not understand that? Of course Slobodan Milosevic led the SPS, but he had so much consideration for the voters in Serbia, he left the party to someone else's formal leadership. So even when a judge kicks out a football coach from the game and sends him to the stands, the one with the tribune cell phone runs his team, but he respected the judge's decision to leave the residence. And you won't even write something you'd formally have to respect because you can't tell Boris Tadic to leave the office of DS President or Vojislav Kostunica, so it can't even be in the law. It's a strong thing to choose another party president and respect him as your distinguished member. No, it's more important to you than the role of the President of the Republic. But everyone has the right to run. Then write that the party president cannot run. I'm sorry, I'm done. ) So whoever wants the role of the President of the Republic must decide: Serbia or the political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12193	Thank you. Replica has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think you, Mr. Shami, wanted to insult me or anyone, but I think that by your logic, the way you explained it, you did it, though, you might have done it on purpose. But I'm not offended by that. If we're talking hypocrisy, it's not hypocritical what we're looking for as president of the Republic. It doesn't have to be Boris Tadic – as far as I'm concerned, I'd like it not to be – but it doesn't matter who it is, we're talking about the institution of the state, an important institution. No matter who is President of the Republic, he must not be a double and divided personality. It represents Serbia's state unity. It also represents the state, as a unique one, and those goals and all that matters about the state, but also of the citizens. He can't represent me, neither can you, Mr. Shami, because you're a member and a member of the DSS, when he comes out and says, "Yes, we're going to beat you," and he puts his finger in your eyes. Then do you feel like a citizen who has a president who represents you? In a situation like this, I don't feel like it's my president. I'm just fighting for dignity and the citizens and the institutions of the President of the Republic. That's all I'm talking about. Secondly, of course the President of the Republic, who is party leader, is either a significant person, or has a significant function in a party, has its specific political weight. Just because he won't be formally head of the party doesn't mean he doesn't have any influence and he won't run some policy within his ranks, but he won't do it in public. He is just one big political capital for the party, which already has a lot by having a member as president. During parliamentary and local elections, we had no president of the Republic. We had a president of the DS who turned the whole country into one yellow mile. There, that's it. I want to say more of this. I'm sorry it all comes down to the name and last name, because it's about the current president, but it doesn't have to be him. The same thing would be if someone else, Tomislav Nikolic, were tomorrow or the day after tomorrow Ivica Dacic, etc. Let's talk in principle. You're going back to Tito's time. I don't mind, I don't mind that time, but don't be so hard on yourself from that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12195	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12196	I didn't say the proposal was harmful, I said it didn't matter. I'm very glad, Mr. Nikolic, that you think what you just said here, but, you know, some future president will be told by the fact that, for example, he resigns as party president even though he doesn't write it in law. It's not punishable and it's not illegal. I chose my words very carefully. So it doesn't matter if we put it into the law, and it's good that each elected president, on his own conscience, assesses whether he will take such a step or not. And that's what he's gonna talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12197	Thank you. Since no one is answering this amendment for a word, we are moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12198	Ladies and gentlemen, counterpart Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment to Article 10 and has proposed to be a member of 10. The draft law on the President of the Republic is deleted because what is written in Article 10 is contained in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the only member you literally copied from the Constitution. We have also told you in principle debates, and by amendments, and we have warned you that you should not only prescribe members of the Constitution to have more members of the law, but that what was needed in the framework of the Constitution should be properly worked out through the provisions of this law. You say, "Amendment is not accepted. Within the part of the draft law governing the quality of the term of office of the President of the Republic, it is necessary to, for the sake of transparency and integrity of the regulation, also find a provision governing the term of office of the President of the Republic and the start of the term of office of the President of the Republic. In addition, the provision of Article 10(3) The bill regulates a legal situation that is not prescribed by the Constitution.' What does Article 10 say? It's got three bets. In his first attitude, he says, "The President of the Republic is elected for five years." It further states that the same face can be twice the president of the Republic, only Boris Tadic can be three times. A miracle from a man. Only the citizens of Serbia won't accept it. It's not in the Constitution, but it's the interpretation of DS, and they're trying through the newspapers, but I see in some newspaper an announcement by Josip Broz Tadic or something. The second is said: "The mandate of the President of the Republic begins when the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly." This means that we do not have a President of the Republic because, when the constitution is changed in one country, as we have changed the Constitution and brought a new Constitution, which is no longer new but is a valid, current constitution, the President of the Republic has not sworn in accordance with this Constitution. We have never received an answer, and many times we have called and asked the President of the Republic and you as its assembly majority: why does Boris Tadic not want to take an oath in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Is there something behind this that may be related to resolving Kosovo and Metohija's final status, since these days mostly in the newspapers, in the media, we find out what all of our representatives are, and Boris Tadic is somehow always in the first place, coming out as part of the negotiating team. We are mainly learning something that we have never heard in this House, and we should, and all members of our negotiating team are bound to adhere to the resolution that has been made in this House. We hope that we will finally have a session of parliament dedicated exclusively to Kosovo and Metohija, and I suppose then that all members of the negotiating team will respond to what they have offered, on whose behalf they have offered, how they could ask for an extension of the deadline, what they are not, the Icelandic Islands, what we have not heard – people wondered what they have read about it. The 3rd position, which you say of the Government that was not contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that could only remain as a Article 10, reads: "If the National Assembly is not in a regular session or if its mandate has ceased, the MPs gather to swear an oath before them by the President of the Republic." You are even legally predicting the possibility for MPs to come together and when the Assembly is not in a regular session that the President of the Republic will swear an oath before the MPs, and on the other hand, we have the Assembly in a regular session but we do not have the president to take an oath before the National Assembly. So this amendment should be accepted, as should all amendments relating to the mere copying of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And I suggest you, Minister, next time try it yourself, with your expert team, to write some law. It may be better quality and you'll have less trouble than with this one prescribed by Zoran Balinovac from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12199	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and let Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have rightly suggested that Article 10 be deleted. His first two positions are the copying of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the third position is so pointless that the minister, whose legal knowledge I respect, should accept this amendment. What's this about? Paragraph 3 of Article 10 reads: "If the National Assembly is not in a regular session or if its mandate has ceased, the MPs shall gather to swear an oath before them by the President of the Republic". The minister, in his explanation of why the amendment refuses, told us that it regulates a legal situation that is not provided for by the Constitution. Mr. Minister, find me in the Constitution a provision that the National Assembly has a situation in which its mandate has ceased. Find me a constitutional provision that regulates the mandate of the National Assembly. The term of office shall be exclusively entrusted to the Members of Parliament. The Constitution deals exclusively with the mandate of the MP. The National Assembly has no mandate. So you could have said: if the National Assembly were disbanded - since the Constitution foresees the situation in which the National Assembly was disbanded. And even so: The disbanded National Assembly can hold a session as MPs still enjoy the term of office. The term of office shall end on the day of verification of the mandate of the new Members of Parliament. It's a senseless attitude three, legally absolutely pointless, not to say it's an insult for the MPs of the people to have someone by law predicting that they are gathering. The chicks are gathered around the hen, and the hens are gathered around the wheat when you cast them into the court; but the messengers of the people are not gathered together. People's MPs can get together somewhere in a bar, they can go to a football game, but they don't get together in the National Assembly. This is where meetings of the National Assembly are held, not gatherings of MPs. This looks to me like King Milan Obrenovic, who gathered the MPs only when they needed to bring the budget and then immediately put them back into custody, where they were. He only collected them for one day and valued them – they voted the budget, he brought them back to custody. Please, Mr. Minister, draw attention to the Legislative Secretariat that there is no mandate of the National Assembly, a time term. We can say that the National Assembly has a mandate and that it is authorized to make some decisions, but that the National Assembly has a time mandate – no. The term of office shall be limited exclusively to each MP individually. Reasons may arise for which, before time, the term of office or when, after the elections, we all leave our mandates to the newly elected MPs. That's why, Mr. Minister, accept this amendment, it won't hurt. In the first two attitudes, what the Constitution regulates is regulated, and the third attitude regulates what cannot possibly happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12201	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12202	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, also considers the SPS to be the 10th member. The bill of law really fictitious, that he's just one big farce. First of all, if we engage in an analysis of the position of the 1st member – "The President of the Republic is elected for five years" – we have no right to believe that it will be because the practice has shown that it has not. In the previous elections, the people had chosen the President of the Republic for five years, and he promised it would be so, but the people were obviously deceived because, in the end, by constitutional law, the Constitution, it turned out that the mandate would not be five years. At that time, when the pre-election campaign was under way, a new constitution was announced, but the fact that there is no coalition agreement for the mandate to be five years. There's no way for five years to be a stable political situation. And that means, gentlemen, that you from the democratic parties have failed to reach a final agreement, that you have agreed that you will only agree on who will be President of the Republic, how much power he will have, etc., and this Constitution and constitutional law is only the highest written act to confirm your agreement and try to keep all democratic elements in one place as long as possible. But obviously there's nothing out of it, and it's obvious that this democratic bloc is already falling apart. Article 2 says, "The mandate of the President of the Republic begins when the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly." We rightly ask why the President of the Republic has not sworn an oath here in front of the National Assembly on the day of the vote of the new Constitution, because the new Constitution has also adopted new rules of play, and a new preamble, a new priority. We have the right to wonder if the president did not want to take an oath, because apparently even his future pre-election pamphlet is: both Kosovo and Europe. It is clearly equating these two priorities, and the Constitution, unfortunately, has only one priority, which is Kosovo and Metohija. And then we ask ourselves, after the vote of the new Constitution, if he really has a mandate, when this member of the law says he has to take an oath to run his term. The oath is part of the term of office. The oath is a solemn act that has both a place and a time and a way, and it must be respected. The same constitution will still give him two more mandates. Although he does not love him, although he does not respect him, the same constitution will offer him two mandates, as he will forget that he has had the mandate and that the mandate is now under way. And then, after the two mandates, before the end of the second term, a new constitution will be brought back to give him two more mandates, and so on, and these are the big plans of the democratic bloc. If we look at the third position, it is truly disastrous: 'If the National Assembly is not in a regular session or if its mandate has ceased' – which we have just heard is impossible – 'People's MPs are gathering to take an oath before them'. What a congregation, such as the Messengers, is a gathering. People's MPs to whom the term of office has ceased may, for example, gather together. at some draw, at some game, at some fair, on a fashion runway, but there's no meeting in the Assembly. That is why we believe that this amendment should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12203	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12204	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, on departure, just to state the position of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. On Article 10, we have shown our position to the original public debates. It was – tell Mr. Minister, as I like to speak directly to him – a member of the nacho who was, in fact, just the verification of one bad experience. Of course, I'll tell you what it's all about. The amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party could be adopted, made sense, for the following reasons. For the public to know what this is about, the first attitude says, "The President of the Republic is elected for five years." That's what the Constitution says, and now we don't regulate anything. The second position says, "The mandate of the President of the Republic begins when the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly." That's what Article 116 also says. The Constitution. So, both are too high. The third position of that member was nakaradan. He said, "If the National Assembly is not in a regular session or if its mandate has ceased" – I fully agree with Mr Nikolic, the Assembly cannot stop the mandate, it can end the term of office, the Assembly may disband - "The MPs are gathering together for the President of the Republic to swear an oath before them". This is the verification of a scandalous experience. You remember 2004. That's when this member was applied, who was put here and who didn't exist at the time. Then they gathered, as it is said here, MPs or a number of MPs, supporters -- to be taken by Mr Tadic to the Serbian presidency building to take an oath with the parade. We then reacted, that is, when there was a principle debate: No, there will be respect for the institutions of the National Assembly. So the President of the Republic takes an oath before the National Assembly. I don't mean in front of the building. I mean in front of the MPs. So the National Assembly must be in session. It was possible to fully apply Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, which says the National Assembly president is calling for a special session of the National Assembly, not to list everything, but – to take the oath of the President of the Republic. So, quite enough elements were to delete this member because the Constitution had already predicted, and the Rules of Procedure tell us exactly how, when a special session is held, an oath of the President of the Republic is being taken to the National Assembly. The government has accepted the amendment of one MP to the same Article 10, where it has somewhat improved its position 3. Now she's changed, so instead of "national MPs are gathering," she said, "The National Assembly is meeting to have the president swear an oath before her." I admit, it's a less bad solution than was foreseen by the bill. As far as we're concerned, we don't care if he accepts an amendment that makes sense or this kind of repair. What we want to point out is that, as we have been guarding these two or three days and as we will guard the institution of the President of the Republic, we also want to make it clear that we want the institution of the National Assembly to be preserved. Therefore, MPs cannot gather, gather, gather, take away, and, behold, take an oath, but they will call a special session of the National Assembly to take the oath of the President of the Republic where meetings of the National Assembly are held, and then the President can make the parade as he wills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12205	Thank you. The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic called for the word. The remaining time for the SRS is six minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 10 we're talking about is a good example of how whoever wrote this law is discussing constitutional provisions. In Article 116. The Constitution, which speaks of the term of office of the President of the Republic, reads: "The mandate of the President of the Republic takes five years and begins to run from the day of the oath before the National Assembly." That one sentence is now drawn up in two sentences in the draft law. And it's a complete piece of work by the bill promoter. So that's how he worked out the constitutional provisions. I wanted to say, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic has already said, in connection with the terminology used in the position of the 3rd proposal, that MPs cannot gather and that they cannot stop the term of office of the Assembly. I would like to make another note – that this article clearly shows that we lack the Law on the National Assembly. It is said in Section 3 that there is a obligation of the National Assembly to meet, to hold a session at which the president will take an oath. However, no deadlines are mentioned here. In what period should the session at which the president will take an oath be held after the final election results have been announced for the President of the Republic of Serbia? I think it must be defined by some act. This way, there is a possibility of obstruction if the newly elected president of the Republic and president of the National Assembly are from some opposing political options. Although Mr Petronijevic mentioned the Rules of Procedure recently regulates one of his members, I think there should be a law on the National Assembly, that we must adopt it as soon as possible and define that obligation of the National Assembly. The biggest problem of this law, in addition to these formal shortcomings, is that it is not precise, which has not defined all possible situations and solutions for all possible situations, and has not set deadlines for certain things to be done, or some decisions. I repeat again – this law was not written by the minister, nor by any of the close co-workers of the minister, this was written by someone who is a low-level ministry official and who obviously had no expertise and no good will to make something more quality than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12207	Thank you. If no one ever comes forward under this amendment, we move on to the next amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milosav Miličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 13. The proposal for a law on the President of the Republic was submitted by counterpart Zdravko Topalovic. Article 13 has two positions and they are prescribed from the Constitution, and that is from Article 116. To avoid reading Article 116 now, he is even more precisely editing the matter that is subject to Article 13 than is written in this article. Therefore, counterpart Topalovic suggested that article 13 be deleted because it is too high. If the legislator thought that the law should have as many members as possible because President Tadic would ask how many members there are of the law on the president, then he achieved the essence, and the essence is that he has exactly 47 members and, apart from reasons, he has exactly five papers. Members of the law are prescribed by the Constitution. Instead of more detailedly editing constitutional matter, which is the basic purpose of the law, it is absolutely not about this matter, but simply copying it. I repeat again - this article of the bill should be deleted because it is simply copied from Article 116. The Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12209	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment to Article 13 was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator did not even bother to literally rewrite what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia said about the resignation of the President of the Republic, but tried to improvise, or to interpret in a rather ignorant way what the Constitution was about to say. The constitution, when it comes to the resignation of the President of the Republic, is mostly clear and does not cause any confusion. In Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to "The term of office of the President of the Republic ceases with the expiry of the time he was elected, with a resignation or with a resolution". The final position of Article 116 says, "The President of the Republic resigns to the President of the National Assembly." If the legislator has already decided to fill out the text of the bill with as many provisions as possible from the Constitution, then at least he could prescribe this clear provision of the Constitution. This is how he created only extra confusion. Article 14(1) states: "The President of the Republic may resign in writing, which he delivers to the President of the National Assembly." If the resignation is delivered, then I guess it's meant to be written. You can't deliver something that's not in writing. If we ignore this termological, linguistic problem – whether to say 'written resignation' or 'written resignation' – I don't know if there may be an illiterate resignation – remains a problem of essence. How does the President of the Republic resign from writing to the President of the National Assembly? Does he carry it himself, does he do any service, whether the resignation is delivered to the president of the National Assembly, or is it first taken to the office of the National Assembly — it remains completely unclear in this article. And if that were not a matter of no importance to us at all, the Constitution itself, which says, "On the day of the resignation, the President of the Republic shall cease his term of office." The legislator was likely to explain further, or in more detail, what the Constitution said, so what day would be considered as the day of the resignation – did the day when the President of the Republic signed that resignation and put the date on it, did the day he sent it to the President of the National Assembly, did the day when the resignation was received in the Office of the National Assembly or the day when the President of the National Assembly actually received it in fact, or did he become familiar with the contents of that resignation? The bill promoter on this matter is absolutely unclear. There is an even funnier formulation in Article 14(2). It's a bill of law. I was also talking about her in the principle debate. Here, now I'm going to try to convince you that what it says in the bill is not good. The term of office of the President of the Republic ceases when he resigns, and now watch the wording, I don't know where they pulled this out. I really don't understand how this resignation, which is not a living thing, can get into the National Assembly. And what the word "come" means in the context of Article 14. A bill of law? Perhaps the lawmaker was saying that when the resignation is found in the National Assembly. But it is not clear from this formulation how resignation comes to the National Assembly. The resignation may be left at the door of the National Assembly, simply to be carried away by the wind. Does that mean she arrived at the National Assembly? Does it mean that the resignation arrived at the National Assembly on the day and time when it was admitted to the Office of the National Assembly or on the day and time when the president of the National Assembly met with the contents of that resignation? Those aren't naive things at all. Here, in the bill of law, in many places, you glamour yourself with all kinds of expressions that have no basis in legal terminology at all. Instead of using some real terms that have been in normative technology for many years, you make up all kinds of expressions, some innovations that can in practice cause extremely big confusion. I remind you, we are passing a law on the President of the Republic. The Constitution has placed this individual in charge of a whole series of affairs, extremely important to the interests of the state and the nation, and it is not a naive thing from which the President of the Republic will be considered to be left behind. Instead of explaining that thing with the bill, you're making it more complicated. Paragraph 3 states: "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." The function of the President of the Republic is one of the most important state functions. It would be logical for that resignation to be explained. So, what are the reasons why the President of the Republic resigns? We can't play with the state. Someone can't be elected president of the Republic today, put huge political power in his hands, and say after a while: I don't want to be president of the Republic anymore, I don't care at all what state states and nations are in, if there's any danger of jeopardizing the territorial integrity of the country, if there's any danger of any extraordinary events that can result from my resignation, I absolutely don't care, and I don't want to explain it. You simply left that future president of the Republic the opportunity to play with the state, that he would decide whether to explain or not his resignation. National MP Suleiman Spaho had no other and smarter solution than to propose an amendment to delete article 14. If you have not already been able to find adequate expressions to explain in more detail what it says in Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then it is better that there is no such wording as Article 14. A bill of law that only introduces additional confusion. I would like to take this opportunity and draw attention to the legislators of the law to take care of the terminology and language used in their proposals to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Any orally educated lawyer, anyone who has experience in writing legal acts, the terms used by the legislator in this bill can only laugh. This can be funny at first sight, but this inaccurate terminology, imperfect terminology, that ambiguity in expression can in practice cause quite dangerous consequences. Of course, you obviously don't care. Here, today we are discussing the draft law on the President of the Republic. Most DS deputies don't even try to explain that what the bill says is good. We've been fighting a real legal and political war today for two and a half hours with the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, and we've been proving to him that what the bill says is wrong, and almost no MP from the DS, or from the ruling coalition, has been there to say: yes, Mr. Minister, you're right, your argument is correct, and what the SRS MPs are saying is not true. At 4:30 this hour, we're talking about a bill on the President of the Republic. The democratic party is full of election mouths for the president of the Republic, as they look forward to passing the law in the National Assembly, as this law is important, European, democratic, step forward, etc. We could hear it all in the media. And then, neither does he have a minister of state and local self-government, nor does he have a secretary of state. You just wonder what we're talking about today, if that makes any sense. The minister, and when he's here, talks to his party colleagues, calls, walks, doesn't listen to what he's told. It is possible that the MPs are sometimes underprivileged to the minister, it is possible that sometimes they are entrenched, it is all part of a political struggle, but I think he could hear a lot of things today and yesterday that he can also benefit from in his function as a minister of state and local self-government. Tomorrow, this bill, if adopted in the National Assembly, and you have most, will in practice cause exceptional problems. Then you will burden the future president of the Republic, who will not be Boris Tadic, with the bad solutions contained in the law on the President of the Republic. Take care that the law on the President of the Republic is not passed by ad personam, is not passed for Boris Tadic, is brought for some future presidents of the Republic, who will be far more responsible for both the state and the nation, and who will be aware of the responsibility given to them by the Constitution. The ruling majority are obviously not aware of it, nor are they thinking about it. I just don't want to let him lie about what's going on in the National Assembly, about this bill on the President of the Republic, fall on the MPs of the SRS. We did everything we could to fix the bad bill on the President of the Republic. We have done our best to take care of both the legal and the language qualities of the bill. We have really invested all our legal energy, knowledge and experience to fix all the bad solutions in the bill. Tomorrow, when this law is in practice causing major problems, and it will cause, be assured, no one but MPs of the ruling coalition and government, who referred this bad bill to the National Assembly, will bear responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12211	Thank you. According to this amendment, the People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12212	Mr. President, respected colleagues and distinguished colleagues, MP Suleiman Spaho has submitted an amendment to the law on the President of the Republic, to Article 14, which regulates the resignation - to delete. A colleague, Martinovic, has now elaborated it here. I'd like to say a few things about the position of the third member and the amendment itself. Since the resignation of the President of the Republic is not an ordinary announcement, it means major procedural and essential problems in one country because the President of the Republic is in command of the military in war and peace, because the President of the Republic declares himself on defence plans, because the President of the Republic has all other constitutional obligations – regardless of who the President of the Republic is, I am talking again only about the institution of the President – does not matter whether the President of the Republic resigned or not, and it does not matter how he did it. Article 14(3) states: "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." A colleague Martinovic was saying why he thought it should be different. But what is a sanction for the president if we say in law that he has to explain his resignation? He can simply say: I am resigning – if voters misjudged the candidate for president, so they trusted him and elected him president, and he at one point disappointed them by resigning for who knows what reasons. Since the president is also a man, therefore a person, he does not have to explain his resignation, he can only say: I am resigning. However, he would thus play with the confidence of citizens who allowed him to be president. If it were as proposed, if he had to explain it, I don't know how we'd make him. Let's just say, Mr. President, you're ashamed of whatever we've chosen you to do, you've let us down. There's no way that we can properly pack it here and make sense, and that it can make a commitment to the president, and that everyone's happy. So the resignation is a personal act, except some resignations have big problems -- that's true. Because it's not the same thing when the president of the local community and the president of the state resigns. In that sense, the legislator has left the president an opportunity to explain his resignation if he wants to, and not necessarily. Why am I saying this? Because sometimes when we talk about these issues, it makes citizens not responsible for politicians' actions. They do. And citizens are responsible if they chose the wrong person for an important state function because they misjudged his, as modernly said today, capacity and his good intentions. In that sense, as far as I'm concerned, it's not possible to prescribe. As for the amendment itself, Mr. Suleiman Spaho suggested that the entire article 14 be deleted and we heard the argument that was too high, so it could be accepted. But I think it's better that the resignation is defined by law than it isn't. Because it is, however, the head of state, who has great responsibility, should have great responsibility for state affairs, for everything the Constitution gives him, and it is said to unite state and national unity, to represent the state, etc. So, in that sense, it seems to me that this is better regulated by Article 14 and that it would be less harm to remain even this way in Article 14 than to delete it. But, of course, it's just finesse. I hope that Serbian citizens will always assess when they choose, so that this president will not make decisions of a personal nature to resign. That's almost not happening. Rarely when it happened in history that one of the presidents of the state resigned. I guess there were more of these others who wanted to extend their mandate. There's such an effort in the world, it was with us, as you remember. counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic of the Socialist Party has submitted an amendment to this member, so he will say what he meant about it. But we wouldn't be able to support this amendment for the reasons I've stated, because with all these problems, there are some misunderstandings as to what it means, "comes," "comes" resignations, and I agree that it is precisely regulated. There have been problems with the parliamentary mandates. When some of the mandates were taken, let's say, to the G17 Plus MPs, or to their MPs, where for procedural reasons and some others (the court proceedings were conducted, I don't know if they were completed, I apologize if they weren't and I commented) it was not clear when the resignation was made – whether that was when the MPs said it or when the document came to the National Assembly office or when the National Assembly President made that information public. So, you have to prescribe everything, that there's no misunderstanding about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12213	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. The time for your parliamentary group is three minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the obligation of the President of the Republic to explain his resignation is prescribed, so if he does not, of course, it is inappropriate to prescribe some criminal sanctions. That's what no one's even talking about. But why, for example, wouldn't it be possible to prescribe some kind of political responsibility for the president of the Republic who resigns and doesn't explain it? I once again draw attention to an extremely important fact. The President of the Republic is, of course, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, like everyone else, but in an extremely delicate political position. Much depends on him and on his explanation of why he resigns, citizens can draw far-reaching conclusions, including about the country's fate. Imagine the situation – one possible, real situation – that the great forces are pushing the President of the Republic to have to accept the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. Why, let's say we would not give such a President of the Republic the right, but we would impose an obligation on him to say in his resignation: "Respected citizens, I am resigning because I do not want to allow the territorial integrity of the country to be violated." Citizens will draw extremely useful conclusions from this. They will have the opportunity to learn the truth about what is going on on the foreign policy plan, what is the attitude of major forces towards Serbia, regarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The President of the Republic has, of course, been given great rights, and you are giving this bill to him, in addition to his rights, and a whole series of privileges. But he must have great responsibilities. One of the obligations is to explain to Serbian citizens who chose him, why he resigned. And that doesn't depend on his free will. He has to say, even though there are personal reasons, no one insists that he brings things out of his personal life and his intimacy, but he can say: I am resigning because of personal problems, because of health problems, because of family problems – that is enough. And he can also say, "I'm resigning because the great powers pressure me to do something against my country." Why shouldn't the citizens be familiar with that? That's what this is about. Secondly, if the duties of the President of the Republic are prescribed that he must explain his resignation and he does not, he also imposes political responsibility on the party that has run him, and we want to do so. Let it be known that this President of the Republic was both a candidate and a party and that in a rough way he played with the state and the nation. Why are you avoiding it? Yesterday I drew attention to the fact that you've already started introducing laxative methods into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – and we have a report from the Legislative Committee, and we don't have it, and then we have it but we don't respect it, and then we don't have the parent board report, so it's tomorrow at 10:30, so we got it today before the break. You're introducing that same principle now, when it comes to the President of the Republic. He can resign, it does not say in the law whether that resignation is valid from the day he signed it, when, as you say, she arrived at the National Assembly, when she was seduced in the office or when the president of the National Assembly met that resignation – nothing matters, we do not care. He can resign, but he doesn't have to account for anyone. There, that's his boss. He's resigned and we don't care why. It's simply unserious when it comes to such an important state institution. It would be ideal if it was regulated by the Constitution. But since you have failed to edit in more detail what the Constitution says, and otherwise what is written in the Constitution is much clearer than what the bill says, then we in the SRS felt it was even better to delete the whole of Article 14, because it is unclear and confusing, and to remain formulas that are quite clear in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12215	Thank you. If no one ever reports on this amendment again, we move on to the next. The 14th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milena Stankovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a national emissary, Milena Stankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President of Parliament, before I begin to present this amendment, I really need to notice what kind of atmosphere we're working in here, how many of us are there. First of all, the minister isn't here. Second, the minister's advisor isn't here. Of the ruling coalition MPs, we have a total of seven DS MPs, who, I believe, are only here because their minister is the rapporteur for this law. It is devastating, for the simple reason that all of us MPs of the opposition have made a lot of efforts, written amendments and witnessed that some amendments, when the MPs here convincingly explained them, were respected by the minister. All of us who have worked on this law, and we have worked, for LDP MPs, I can say that, and I can see colleagues from the other two opposition political parties, we have been really serious about this law. I think it's really devastating that at least the minister isn't here. What I would say and as far as this member is concerned is that he is very important and I would disagree with my colleague Martinovic that there should be no regulation relating to the resignation of the president of the state, i.e. I would agree with my colleague Baralic, the resignation must indeed be regulated, but not in this manner as regulated in the bill. We have tried the amendment, which I will now explain, to sort out some of the shortcomings that Article 14, which relate to the resignation of the President of the Republic, bear with him. So this member is actually a draft constitutional provision that says the President of the Republic resigns by resigning in writing, or writing, as it is more correct, delivering to the President of the National Assembly. We have suggested that Article 2 reads as follows: "The term of office of the President of the Republic ceases when the text of the resignation of the President of the Republic of the National Assembly reads at the session of the National Assembly which has been convened." The provision we have here, which says the term of office of the President of the Republic ceases when the resignation arrives at the National Assembly, is unarranged. Col. Martinovic spoke of it quite well, in terms of what it means when it arrives or, I don't know how happy it is to get to the National Assembly. Does that mean when she gets to the office or does that mean when she gets to the table of parliament? If we take this first variant, that the resignation is believed to have arrived at the moment when it reaches the LDP's office, the objection of the MPs is that this is also too significant an act, with very significant legal consequences, that the mandate of the President of the Republic would cease in this way. Thus, it is not usually written, which is simply delivered to the offices of the National Assembly, but rather, the legal consequences are extremely significant. That is why we believe that this is not the right way to end the term of office of one President of the Republic, whatever the reasons why it has been defined as resigning. Another possibility is that the term of office of the President of the Republic ceases as soon as the President of Parliament receives his resignation. We can imagine the situation that the President of Parliament, for whatever reason, simply doesn't want to respect that resignation, the public doesn't know anything about it – and then what? So, what we wanted when we proposed these amendments to Article 14, is to actually provide what is required of the President of the Republic when resigning in paragraph 3 which says, "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." Reading the resignation at a session of parliament called precisely to make the resignation known and respected is, in fact, the most worthy way to stop the term of office of one country's president. The 3rd position, which says the president of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and that he can, in doing so, explain his resignation, is also unarranged. What does it mean that he has to inform the public about it? How is he supposed to do that? Is he supposed to go to the public service, open his soul to one of these magazines, invite Gloria to interview them and say, "Well, something happened in my life, so I decided to resign?" No, I don't. This is the best way to solve both of these shortcomings. It seems to me that this and this, and that means quite superficial and unarranged, is the solution to the procedure of resignation of the president of the state, in fact, tendingly left legal voids, and that's something that happens very often. I am a young MP, this is my first term, but looking at the laws that come into the Assembly and where we work, I see that there are a lot of legal gaps that are later filled in by a tending interpretation of the ruling majority in line with current interests and the current relationship of forces in the ruling coalition. I don't think it's a good thing this amendment isn't respected. I'm even more sorry that the minister's been misbehaving like this, and he's not here. I am also sorry that Mr. Dulic, as Parliament Speaker, is not responding. You, Mr. Dulic, can interrupt the session and invite the minister to come and listen to his fellow MPs. We are representatives of the opposition, but probably like you, we intend to make the best possible law. So we think the minister is really here, with us, not where he is. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12217	Thank you very much. The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fear that the amendment submitted by Milena Stankovic – she explained it and cited it – is practically not acceptable. The government's explanation is quite correct. If we were to expect the president of the National Assembly to read that resignation at the Assembly, we would be in a position to depend on the president of the Assembly. What if he won't call the assembly session and won't read the resignation? That means the president didn't resign. And that's the problem we're facing, it's not a hypothetical question. We've had such examples. I was here presenting information relating to the warning of the former President of the Constitutional Court, and to the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic, that he had met the conditions for retirement and that he would retire within three months, and had warned him that the Constitutional Court had no two judges and that if he did not act in accordance with the Constitution, there would be a blockade of the Constitutional Court. That could happen to us with the president's resignation. It is that the amendment of SRS MP Sulejman Spah has passed, but I think it should really be accepted and this article 14 deleted. As precise as possible, this is defined by Article 117, however. The constitution where it is said: "When the President of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the president of the National Assembly. On the day of the resignation, the President of the Republic shall cease his term of office.'' And that's over, now it doesn't depend on anyone else. Neither the president of the assembly should convene a session, nor should he inform the MPs about it. The moment he was resigned by the president, that moment was the president's resignation. There's no reason to extend. From the moment he received it, until they called for a meeting, until the Messengers were informed, so what happens if we open the debate, that we do not talk about many of the possibilities that are given to the Messengers at that time – what will happen? That's why we can't leave the President of the Assembly, or anyone else, to decide. The Constitution has defined this precisely. There is, however, one inaccuracy, a conditionality, he says - he is obliged to inform the public about it. And what if the president can't inform the public? What does that mean to inform the public? The means of information, on television, to call a press conference? What if the president doesn't? It's just he's got it all over his head and he's not gonna do it. He resigns and informs the president of the National Assembly. These are things that can actually happen and should not give any possibility for someone to assess and to take or take action and thus resign. That's why I think this Article 14 should be deleted, that the Constitution should be held, because the Constitution is still the most precise and safest given, when it comes to resignation, that there will be no possibility of calculations, for any arbitration decisions of any kind. The moment he informs the public or the president of the National Assembly, the term of office of the President of the Republic ceases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12219	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want a word on the amendment to Milena Stankovic? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12220	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SPS considers that the constitutional provision governing the issue of the resignation of the President of the Republic is necessary in a precise and detailed manner to be regulated by the relevant law, i.e. This law. That's, of course, the elemental thing to do. That is why laws are also passed, which are detailed and extend the provisions of the Constitution, of course within the framework of the Constitution. So, in Article 14. The bill says, "The President of the Republic can resign in writing, which he delivers to the President of the National Assembly." Second position: "The term of office of the President of the Republic ceases when the resignation arrives in the National Assembly." Third position: "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." In another attitude, we have words that are not suitable for legislative terminology, dictionary and phrases, or words that are usually used when laws are passed. The President of the Republic's term of office, it says, "Stops when resignation arrives at the National Assembly." First of all, it kind of stings in your ears or, if you want, it sounds dissonant. Secondly, what do you say, "when resignation arrives at the National Assembly," they actually define? I remind you, there are three buildings of the National Assembly in office. One is the House of National Assembly, in the Square of Nikola Pasic, the other is on the street of King Milan No. 14 and 3, the official premises of the National Assembly, in No. 16. Whoever brings the mail from the president can miss it if it's not in progress. If he's looking for a building, it's a question of whether it's coming to the National Assembly's portatory, to the reception office, or to the cabinet, to the table of the National Assembly. This is very important, because in Article 117. The constitution says, "When the President of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the president of the National Assembly." Of course, it could be arranged differently, and more correctly, but unfortunately the Constitution does not allow. When the law uses the words "The People's Assembly", I primarily think of the legislative body, the highest legislative authority, and I don't mean the building, the one or the one, the third or the fourth, which can be this or that. It immediately associates me with the highest legislative authority in the country. It's the National Assembly. If those words are used in the law, then think about it first. But the Constitution didn't regulate it, and the National Assembly, as a legislative body, has no jurisdiction in this matter. So where's the resignation supposed to go? We at the SPS think it's only right for the resignation to reach the hands, that is, the president of the National Assembly. Everything else has not arrived at the right place, because the President of the Republic informs the President of the National Assembly. That's what the Constitution says. In Article 116, paragraph 5 says, "The President of the Republic resigns to the President of the National Assembly." Article 117 says, "When the President of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the president of the National Assembly." I just want a little attention, to read you the amendment I submitted and explain why. In Article 14. The bill's views 1 and 2 are amended and read as follows: Item 1: "The President of the Republic resigns to the President of the National Assembly". It is in accordance with the Constitution, decided and clear. Item 2: "The term of office of the President of the Republic shall cease on the day when the President of the National Assembly receives his resignation." The president of the Republic, he writes in the Constitution, informs the president of the National Assembly, but he is informed when he receives that resignation, he cannot be before, and when he receives it officially. After Article 2, a new position 3 is added, which reads: "The President of the National Assembly immediately upon receipt of the resignation of the President of the Republic of the Republic informs the National Assembly." The government's explanation says, "Amendment is not accepted. Under the draft law of the resignation of the President of the Republic, it does not relate to the actions of the President of the National Assembly.' (I wasn't talking about any actions in my amendment, but I'll comment. ) "The decision contained in the draft law makes the resignation of the President of the Republic dependent solely on the will of the President of the Republic". I don't think the government's explanation is good because there's still a store for the president of the National Assembly. What kind of shop is that? He must take note that a resignation has been made, or there is a store in relation to him – someone must inform him, so that he may know it. This is the same as in Articles 116 and 117. The Constitution, not to read again. It is normal that the moment that resignation reaches the president of the National Assembly, he is informed, as the Constitution says. It's a moment and a day since the resignation. It's all clear. This item 3, which is an integral part of this amendment, says: "The President of the National Assembly immediately upon the receipt of the resignation of the President of the Republic of the Republic, informs the National Assembly." It's not an action that's holding back the moment the resignation is valid. It is only that one level of government should be honored, and that is the legislative level, as the country's highest body, that the President of the Republic has resigned. It is not the order for the National Assembly and the MPs to hear it from their neighbors, on the street, etc. The National Assembly should have its place in the entire system of government, and that of its dignified place, which is respected at all times. Through these amendments, we are trying, out of our vision, in our own way, to contribute that the laws on the most important institutions are worthy of these institutions, to be appropriate, so that these institutions are what they should be in this country, not to be improvising institutions, based on laws that are undefined, which can be interpreted in different ways etc. So it's about access to the SPS. I believe that this amendment significantly improves the text of this Member of the bill, that it remains within constitutional provisions and defines exactly when the resignation of the President of the Republic begins. That it is a happy circumstance, that it is different in the Constitution, then it should be about that resignation, through the regular procedure, to inform the MPs, or the National Assembly, and to establish it. It's kind of a turn. The National Assembly is probably a partner in the entire government of the Serbian state, which is not the ninth hole in the play, but is an equal partner. Executive power, legislative authority, judicial authority – everything must be respected equally. Everyone has a place and should make one harmony in all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12221	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Verica Radet, according to the amendment of Mr. Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12222	Thank you. Somehow I have the impression that, and when a colleague spoke now and, previously, a colleague who also had an amendment to article 14, it is more controversial when the president's resignation is accepted than the fact that the president has resigned. I think it should be clear to everyone, and the lawyers certainly know that here, as in all the other state authorities and authorities of the administration, it has to apply office business. And that means that the resignation arrived at the National Assembly the moment the resignation was submitted, handed over to the office, and when they were seduced in the office. And we can't, and we don't need to, and I'm sure neither of you, colleague Milena, nor you, colleague, think anyone in the office is going to hide or remove the resignation of the president. Of course not. As soon as possible, the president of parliament will be reached in his office. Will the President of Parliament respect the Constitution, above all, and then this law, whether to notify the National Assembly of whether it will inform the public and whether the President himself, who resigns, will respect Article 117. The constitution and resign – it is hardly possible to regulate it by law, because this law does not provide for criminal provisions. What are we going to do to the president who doesn't inform the public that he resigned? The fact is that it can happen that the president resigns and she stands with the president for 15 days, that party colleagues convince him that he should not resign, say, without the public having no idea, and if he is not convinced, then we, I mean the citizens of Serbia, find out that the resignation was filed 15 days ago, and if he is convinced, he is talked about - he has, he has not submitted. We've had cases like this, with the resignations of MPs, with the resignations of ministers from G17 plus. It's already been seen. Neither guilty nor indemnity, the people in the office were invited (I don't know what stage the criminal proceedings are at right now), the criminal report was filed, I guess, against the head of the office and some employees in the office, because someone told them that they needed to change the number in some act or hour of reception (now I don't remember the details) because then the President of Parliament assessed, again for some coalition or party reasons, that they should not inform the MPs that the ministers from G17 plus resigned, so when it was found out, then he said that he couldn't accept those resignations because they weren't written in form that he thought it should be written resignation. So, it's completely nebulous, but it's something that's happened and that can happen in the case of the President of the Republic. I think that this solution from the Constitution is still the most comprehensive, and that we should not have a dilemma, we must also count on the political and moral responsibility of the people who are in such high places, that, if the president happens to resign for some reason... I know, now a coworker's nodding his head about -- who can we trust? I agree that in this congregation and in our recent past, we don't have people we can trust or count on their political and moral responsibility, but it just can't be different. It cannot be prescribed by law that if the President of the Republic, if he does not inform the public that he has resigned, will go to prison, or if the President of Parliament does not notify the National Assembly, he will be sentenced to prison for how many years. However, this policy, the state policy, is very responsible, and in the end, those who are wrong about the law and who are wrong about the Constitution respond, above all, to the citizens of Serbia in some elections that would eventually follow and possibly resign. So, I volunteered just to clarify, whether I liked it or not, or any of you, that there is no other way and another moment of treatment of resigning other than the moment of surrender in the office, when the reception is stamped. It's simply something that's prescribed, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, by office business, and there's nothing we can do about it. We can change those laws, but for now, in this state of affairs, it has to be. And do we have or do we not trust – personally, I have no reason, nor, I'm sure, any of you have reason to doubt the employees of the office in the Assembly or the building of the presidency. If there is someone who will be wrong about the law and the Constitution and not to tell the timely public, then it can only be the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic, and unfortunately we can hardly force them, in this state of law, to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12223	Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Miletic Mihajlovic? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12224	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, is missing, in Article 14. The bill says, "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." The purpose of the amendment to this article is to supplement it, because this member of the law does not say, for example. where he can explain his resignation, does not specify any conditions to explain his resignation, and the amendment means that if the president decides to explain his resignation, he should do so in the National Assembly, before the MPs of the Republic Assembly. I just want to remind you and read the explanation why the amendment is not accepted. He says, "Amendment is not accepted. According to the Constitution, the President of the Republic only informs the public of his resignation" – which is not true, because the Constitution correctly states in Article 117: "When the President of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the president of the National Assembly", which means not only the public as it is written here. "In addition, under the Constitution, the President of the Republic resigns to the President of the National Assembly (Article 116(5)). The Constitution), not the National Assembly, has no constitutional basis for the President of the Republic to explain his resignation in the National Assembly.' I just want to ask, what are the conditions for the president to explain his resignation in the National Assembly? When it comes to the president's resignation, we in the Constitution have a very interesting situation. First of all, Article 116 states: "The President of the Republic resigns to the President of the National Assembly" and Article 117 in the first position says, "When the President of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the President of the National Assembly." As if the president of the National Assembly had not been resigned, as if it were not clear enough for him when he was resigned, that he had been resigned. God forbid the president of the National Assembly can't understand the gravity of the situation! Practically, these are either two options of one solution or these two options are opposed. What does it mean to inform – does it have characterism? What does it mean to bear – does it have the character of reason? If the president can take an oath in the Assembly, if the Assembly can relieve him, then it is pointless that there are no constitutional grounds for the president to explain his resignation in the assembly. I'm sure a lot of people would like to ask a lot of questions about that resignation because the president's resignation is part of the mandate. As the oath is part of the president's mandate, the resignation is also part of the presidency's mandate, and will have to come to it, according to the Constitutional Law, when elections are called. The people of the president chose for five years. Now he will, and he has a right to ask him. First of all, the SPS believes, if the president only explains the resignation, that it will not be sufficiently determined, that it will be ambiguous, that there will be a number of issues open to which people, Serbian citizens have the right to receive an answer. Citizens of Serbia who are members of the DS and who have contact with the president and will be able to ask him, but those who are not, of course, will ask him questions right through us, the MPs, because we, the MPs, are actually legitimate representatives of the people. We can also get questions from our members, which we represent, from our citizens we represent, and by SMS, and by cell phone (don't let God ring now) or by fax, in many ways. After all, if the congregation can resolve it, it has the right and to ask it, the MPs have the right and to ask it. I am sure that at this point, when the outcome of the negotiations is seen, when the uncertain future, when the situation is very serious, many would ask him what his impressions are, as a member of the negotiating team, if he still represented the views he represented, what he represented on the negotiating team, because there was obviously no idea on unity until the end of the negotiating team either in the two-half government or on the negotiating team. So they'd ask him if he was still a party leader, when he became former president, when he beat him, for example. Our candidate, the SPS, will continue to hold his leadership position in the Democratic Party. The Socialist Party also wants this opportunity to point out that it will have its candidate, but that our priorities are not elections. The SPS wants, above all, to point to the complexity of the situation, that it is not the time for elections, that the current narrow party interests should be ignored, because one big question is asked - and what then? If the constitutional law is an obstacle, it can easily be changed and the elections can wait for this issue, above all, to be resolved with Kosovo and Metohija. Then I'm sure a lot of people would ask him why he didn't explain his resignation, which I just said, why he didn't pass the acquittal, which we just asked him here in the Assembly, after the adoption of a new constitution, so maybe young people would ask him why many of them lost their right to vote, and the right to vote, just when it comes to the law on the president and the law on the president's institution. Many people have been denied the right to vote. Many citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do not have the right to vote because they do not have a residence in the Republic of Serbia. I want to remind the public, as well as the president, that it is the largest number of young people who have completed colleges, who are experts, who couldn't find a job, who have been promised a lot of things in pre-election campaigns, and they're out of a job and they're not in the country today. Then what's going on? They are disappointed, first of all, with false promises inside, and then they are disappointed with the false promises that democratic options have developed about Europe just so that they can be mediators and come to power, and now these young people have gone to Europe and are disappointed there, because it's not what they thought. What about the diaspora? They don't have the right to vote either. And we remember what happened to the diaspora money. Where's the money from the diaspora, where's the money that's supposed to restore by war to a desolated state? What happened to four banks, where's that money now? When we talk about it, there's not even a single polling list, which you were just accusing the former regime of missing, so that it can be manipulated by voices, etc., so you promised to form a voter list -- and where is this unique voter list now? We're gonna ask the president where that unique ballot is. Then we'll ask him what's wrong with the national offices, if he'll finally shut them down. Here, we have the Protector of Citizens, does there have to be any need for people's offices to continue? It is that the Citizens' Protector is still constitutional and unable to organise the service, that is where you should help him, but that is why the SPS will continue to take care of all people who are in a state of social need, with increased social risk, with an increased health risk. A lot of questions are being opened here, and it'll only open if there's a reasonable resignation. It's this amendment that we want, first of all, to give people a chance to ask questions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12225	Thank you very much. The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, according to the amendment of the People's Messenger of Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12226	Col. Dimitrievich, do you have any information that Mr. Boris Tadic resigned? I had such an impression of what you said here. You say the people want to ask him what he's been negotiating, he wants to ask him... So I get the impression it's a finished story. But a joke aside. The amendment you submitted to Article 14 has asked for a new position to be added after Article 3, which reads: "If the President decides to explain his resignation, he is obliged to explain it to the National Assembly in the next session." This amendment of yours is in collegiate with Article 14(3). It's a bill of law. I understand, and I'm sure if the president were to resign, any president, that there would be curiosity with many citizens - what had resigned, what had happened to him. The resignation is a personal act. The President of the Republic is an institution. That's why there's a law on the President of the Republic, because it has to be treated, conditionally, differently from other people, and that's how it has to behave, and that's what we've been talking about today all day. But if you wanted this amendment to be adopted, then you had to intervene in Article 14 in paragraph 3. It reads, "The President of the Republic is obliged to inform the public that he has resigned and can explain his resignation." We've asked to delete this entire member, and if we went on a partial basis, surely the first thing we'd do would be that this word "can" be deleted and it says "is mandatory". The attitude of the SRS is that law can never stand for anything. In law something must or may not, and leave the possibility to anyone... So this government bill left the President of the Republic with the possibility that he could explain his resignation. By the way, your amendment has no legal basis, not to be too harsh to say it's pointless, just because you left out to intervene on the third of this article's point of view. If you'd done that, then you could have talked about your amendment. It's not even unacceptable, it's even wrong for all of what you said, to ask the President of the Republic at this point when he would eventually resign, most of Serbia's citizens would have asked him. I called because I didn't see the minister come in, and then I didn't want to give up, so it wasn't misread. I suppose the minister himself would react to this amendment because it simply has no purpose to speak of it because it cannot be applied because of Article 14(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12227	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Petar Jojic tabled an amendment to Article 15. The bill also asked for Articles 15, 2 and 3 to be deleted. Article 15 speaks of a President's discharge. Article 2 states: "The Constitutional Court is obliged to decide within 45 days of the initiation of the discharge procedure whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution," and Article 3 says, "If the Constitutional Court decides that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall be authorised if two-thirds of the MPs vote for its resolution." We talked about this member and the principle debate, and possible possibilities, but this is directly prescribed by the Constitution, and that must be the case. We're talking about something that can happen in life, in practice. It may happen that, especially now that we're going to have a pure party Constitutional Court, a two-party, half DSS half-DSS, without the third-third that might be a little different, despite the obvious that the President has violated the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is not saying so. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court may find that the president has violated the constitution, but that the two-thirds majority is not provided in parliament. I'm just saying this doesn't mean that it's a priority that if the Constitutional Court makes a decision within 45 days that the president has violated the Constitution, it automatically guarantees that the president will be resolved. Why did we endure this amendment? And this isn't the only one, this is the continuity of our amendments. We've said it several times - it's not good and it doesn't need to be rewritten into the Constitution. The constitution doesn't serve that. If that were the case, then the Constitution should have a lot more members and work out every social area in detail and then we don't have any laws, that we have a Constitution and that the Constitution is our only law. But it's not like that. I must say that every time the government's arguments are not accepted by the amendments of the MPs, they're very smutty, often nebulous, but the government has never played with the MPs as well as with the reasons why it does not accept amendments to the proposal for a law on the president. He says "an amendment is not accepted" and point. Every argument begins that way. We know it's not being accepted, that's what you said at the beginning -- the government proposes not to accept the amendment, so it's counting. Then you say, Mr. Markovic, something that is not true: 'Articles 15.2 and 3. The draft law constitutes an element of the discussion of the constitutional institute of discharge of the President of the Republic'. They do not constitute any element of the discussion of the constitutional institute of the resolution of the President of the Republic, Mr Markovic, but you have just reversed the order from the Constitution. What's in the Constitution is attitude one to you, Section 3, and what's in the Constitution is attitude 3 to you is attitude 2. Right? You've got the Constitution in front of you, I didn't bring it, but that's right. So you've rewritten the Constitution. That is why counterpart Petar Jojic suggested that it be deleted. Such members and the views of members who are mere copying the Constitution contain something that already exists in the Constitution and can't interfere with the law in its application, but you don't have to do it to have something that looks like the law. This law on the president has 47 members. If you hadn't signed the Constitution in 20 members, it would have been a 27-member law, and then it would have spoken much more clearly of how irresponsiblely and irresponsiblely you have joined this law and regulation of the issue of the President of the Republic as an institution. Again, you had Boris Tadic in mind. We've been distracting you all day that the President of the Republic is an institution, and that you, in the absence of a desire to regulate this matter in detail, clearly, precisely, then realized -- let's rewrite the 20 and the change of members of the Constitution, no one can comment on that because, my God, it's the Constitution. But, you see, for that very reason, we have put the amendment on each such member and suggested that you delete it, and here, by this explanation, you have deceived the MPs because you have not given an explanation that corresponds to the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12229	Thank you. The word is from MP Vladan Batic, according to the amendment of MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if you've finished your chat, let me begin. Thank you. I've applied for the amendment to the previous member, but it can be current for this member as well. I think the provisions of the law on the President of the Republic concerning the resignation or resolution of the President of the Republic should provide for something else, which is next. Minors should have been introduced in a form of obligation or in such a way as to norm that the resignation is mandatory for people in the position of the President of the Republic if part of the state territory is lost for their term of office. It's a moral act that should follow with people who have morals. But since you don't know who the President of the Republic can be, at such a delicate moment, because he may not understand his ethical obligation, and it has happened to us in the past, then the law should force him or commit him to do so. Because we've had enough of these 15, 16 or more years of drilling into patriotic breasts and then nothing at all; fighting some pointless wars, declaring victory after defeat and - no responsibility. So we must impose the principle of responsibility in Serbia. (Repeats Minister): You may find it funny, but that laugh was supposed to be directed to Balinian, the one who's... (Milan Markovic: I did not laugh at you. ) Here, the minister and assistant admit that their laughter applies to Balinovac – he does not know how to write laws. The man was a member of JUL, how can he write laws for a new time? But, well, it would be funny if it wasn't tragic. Why do I say that? Remember the promises and coalition agreement when forming the previous government. The preservation and strengthening of the state union was the first member of the coalition agreement and the first part that Vojislav Kostunica said here during the inauguration, when he was elected prime minister. The state community fell apart, Montenegro went away, and nothing happened to anyone. Now, in recent months, we have heard the story of Kosovo and Metohija -- they will never take it from us, they will remain forever ours, and then, and after forever, they will be ours. So let's see what happens if we don't? Someone's got to be responsible. I can't lie to people anymore. Some people can lie for a while, but not all people can lie, because in lies are short legs, the end comes. Those who are unwitting say most European Union countries will recognise Kosovo's independence by the end of December. Then what? Then what will the on-call patriots do who swore that it would remain forever ours and that no one could take it from us? Of course, there is still no debate in this assembly on Kosovo and Metohija, but there are no other things that could have been done, and one of them is to convene a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Today is exactly two weeks since the Serbs dropped a bomb on our colleague Stojanka Petkovic's house. There is no session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. They're all acting crazy, and it's promised -- they'll be right away. Two weeks. Why? According to this committee, we're going to have to open the cards to say how many Serbian nationalities are -- some sitting here -- they've got hundreds of thousands or millions of euros from Kosovo's budget, from the 'Mork Albanians'? Where's the money? Let's say that one of our colleagues received a 192,000-euro donation from the Kosovo Fund and from the Luxembourg government to build one of their facilities in Zubin Potok, irrevocably. Did he bless Putin? Will he become an honorary citizen of the Tooth Creek of Putin? Or perhaps the President of Luxembourg? Let's do double morals -- enough. The Russians here, but they like the money of the NATO countries. I got a letter today that also speaks of haughtiness and dual morality. The lady named Rakic Rada was a teacher in the village of Vrbovac, the municipality of Kosovo Vitina. She worked for 31 years at the "Marko Rajkovic" school. After NATO's arrival, the force was forced to leave Kosovo and Metohija, but its school continues to work. She's coming back from Smederev, but her Serbian breaths won't let her work there. One is the head of the school and the other is now chairman of the municipal board of one of the ruling coalition parties and co-ordinator for Kosovo and Metohija. It's from the Democratic Party of Serbia, when you ask me. I'm sorry, that's in this letter, so everything with names and last names. The lady says she launched a dispute in front of the Kosovo Vitina court, which was moved to Vranje. There's been no response to her lawsuit for years. There's that lawsuit. No one's gonna touch the local powers. Well, then how will someone else help us? The woman said that one of her sons participated in the war, he was a backup lieutenant at the time of the Yugoslav Army. He fought no matter how pointless it was. I mention this about that first member, that is, this amendment, that is, this topic. We have another topic. I mentioned it today. I'm going back to her again. I keep repeating what's true and what's justice. Warm County Reserves. Six hundred cops and gendarmes were suffocating with them today. Is that what we want to fight the army, the police and the gendarmes, to drop Serbian blood? And some, I said, were charged. Two judges of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, members of their families. Let's turn the story around: 500 or 600 minions of government in Prokuplje and Kursumlija charged those war logs. What do you say, Mrs. Nado? Nothing. ) Over 550 have charged, and many of them – I have data, I represent them – over 500,000 dinars. So billions are paid. If they were wrong, who's responsible for paying billions? Who was the Secretary of Defense then? Will he be held accountable, will he be held accountable? We can't make first-class citizens and second-class citizens. Serbia can't be somebody's mother and someone's stepmother. Perhaps you can help, Mr. Minister, for a week I've been trying to arrange a meeting, because these people are appealing and begging for a meeting with the President of the Republic to stop something that may have an unwanted epilogue. I can't get it, or Mr. Rakic won't answer the phone. A week! I don't even have to show up (I know the President of the Republic) but I'm trying to set up a meeting with a delegation of reservers (ex and possibly future) of the Toplician County. His Excellency, the head of the cabinet (because he's important) won't contact the MP. So how can we talk about the President of the Republic if we have such negligentness, such bureaucracy, such a machete relationship? That is why, regardless of what the President of the Republic is called, the law should provide for: if part of the state territory goes to your term of office – goodbye. This, of course, applies even more to the prime minister, because he is full of Kosovo's mouth – in his souls, hearts, memories, memories, etc. Go to Belanovica, and remember as much as you like. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12231	Is anyone else answering for a word on the amendment of MP Peter Jojic? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the messenger of the people, Zvonko Stevic, appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, on the basis of an article. 104, 101, 103. What Mr Batic stands for, it stands for, and we from the Socialist Party back five or six months, that there are certain irregularities, weaknesses and boasts of individuals, but what is true is that this ruling coalition is not doing anything about it. The Socialist Party condemns the attack on our colleague Stojanka Petkovic's family house. But, Mr. Batic, if you know, I don't have that information at my disposal, that's what the Serbs did. And I agree, and I don't know what reason the Kosovo and Metohija Committee isn't scheduled for. Secondly, for the second time, when you talk about these abuses, machinations, etc., you say MPs are sitting here. There are seven of us from Kosovo and Metohija here. It would be, at the very least, okay and correct to tell the MPs what it is. There's the Minister for Local Self-Government. We talked about the coordinators five months ago. Nothing was done even though we had an idea, based on the law and the Constitution, that they had matured the conditions to, eight years after all that was done in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where there are no conditions and the possibility to conduct elections, introduce so-called. The municipal council. That is what the Committee concluded, however, there are no results. It's a distraction to the public. Negotiations failed, there was no real negotiations. We have two sides. We have these days to announce all ministries, including the Government, that there are supposed to be some action plans, and we, as MPs and this home, don't know what the plans are about. The basic question and essence of the matter is what the fate of the Serbian people is in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Besides, what's said is, there are no concrete measures in a positive sense, but no more in a negative sense. These days, I've been talking to you about a propaganda-psychological war. I repeat what I said yesterday, that a mandatory work order has been issued, a work obligation since December 1st, that students and teachers are upset because it has been rumored that it will stop teaching in primary and secondary schools in Kosovo and Metohija since 5 December. What does that mean? Should Serbs pack their suitcases and leave? The moment that happens, no more negotiations. The state of Serbia will be destabilised and there will be problems, not only in Serbia but also in the Balkans. I say once again, Mr Batic, if you have information and have it at your disposal, give concretely what MPs are concerned about and which MPs abuse their mandates and functions in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12233	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12234	I would just like to say to Mr. Zvonimir Stevic that I am our conversation and that, as you know, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is responsible for that. So you can have full support from me for the Committee's conclusion, but it simply needs to be directed towards Mr Samardzic in order to address the Coordinator's issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12235	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 15th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment with the correction be rejected. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12236	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, as for commenting on the resignation of the President, Article 13, says: ''The mandate of the President of the Republic ceases when the time for which he has been elected ends. Before the time of his election, the President of the Republic shall cease his term of office if he resigns or is relieved.' Article 15 reads: "The Decision of the President of the Republic may propose to the National Assembly at least one third of the MPs if it considers that it has violated the Constitution, and the procedure for resolution is being initiated by the majority of the votes of all MPs. The Constitutional Court is required that within 45 days... 'Adjustment to Art. 15. says: "The Decision of the President of the Republic may propose to the National Assembly at least one third of the MPs if he considers that he has violated the Constitution. The procedure for the resolution for the reasons referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be initiated on the proposal of one third of the Members of the People's Parliaments'. The Constitution, which is called "Resolvement", states Article 118, "The President of the Republic is hereby authorised for violation of the Constitution, by decision of the National Assembly, by the votes of at least two-thirds of the MPs. The discharge procedure can be initiated by the National Assembly, on a proposal of at least one third of the Members of the People's Parliament." The essence of this amendment was that, since the procedure is too complicated, it can be simplified and essentially nothing is changed because, if the Constitution had provided that the President of the Republic could be removed in the Assembly, it would be done in a more rational way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12237	Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in the principle debate on the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic, I have indicated that the position of Article 1(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be taken into account. The bill does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is another example that the legislator did not even bother to literally copy what was written in the Constitution, but tried to improvise, or to give someone an unknowing interpretation of what was written in the Constitution. The position of Article 16, which the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica suggested to be deleted, reads as follows: "The President of the Republic of mandate cannot expire as long as the war or emergency takes place, but extends by force of the Constitution until three months have elapsed since the end of the war or emergency". The notion of mandate in constitutional law can mean two things. It can mean authority to form a government, and that's what it says: the President of the Republic has entrusted a government mandate to someone. In the context in which we are now speaking, the term of office means a period of time to which someone is elected to a particular function, in this case the President of the Republic. Time is a physical category and there is no law that can stop the flow of time. If that were the case, Mr. Minister, the Constitution itself, which says, 'If the term of office of the President of the Republic expires during war or emergency, it shall be extended... '". Such a provision is absolutely logical. So if something points out, it needs to be extended. And you say in the bill, "the term can't expire." The mandate can expire because you don't have the power to stop time. You may have, Mr. Minister, but you haven't given me any reliable convictions so far that you're really in that position. Although, who knows, anything can come to your mind. It's pointless that the mandate can't expire, and then you say it's extending. Why extend it if it can't run out? So, Mr. Minister, Article 1st position is meaningless and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and MP Bozidar Koprivica rightly suggested that the position be deleted. As for attitude 2, MP Bozidar Koprivica suggested that this position be re-formed. In your proposal for a law, Article 2 reads as follows: "The President of the Republic to whom the term of office has been extended because of a war or emergency has all jurisdiction as well as before the extension of the term of office". The amendment proposes to say as follows: "The President of the Republic to whom the term of office has been extended due to war or emergency has all the rights and responsibilities as well as before the extension of the term of office". We believe that this formulation is more linguistically correct, clearer and should be accepted. As far as attitude three is concerned, he's pointless. This is an unnecessary burden on the text of the bill to one norm that is understood. In point 3, you say this: "The President of the Republic can resign or be resolved during his term of office." That's understood. If his mandate is extended, he is still the President of the Republic. Therefore, it has all the rights, obligations, responsibilities as well as the President of the Republic to which a regular term of office has not expired, i.e. whose term of office has not expired. I really don't know why you need this norm. Otherwise, if you want to be consistent with your way of writing the bill and interpretation, then in paragraph 2, after "the President of the Republic to whom the mandate has been extended", you could list all of its rights and obligations which the President of the Republic normally has under the Constitution and under the bill of law that you have provided. This way, you've limited yourself to only two things, that the President of the Republic to whom the mandate has been extended may be resolved from his post or may resign. So, you are probably in the desire to make this text of the bill as long as possible, i.e. to make the outside look as serious as possible, to first rewrite one part of the constitutional norms, but then you didn't even bother to literally copy them, but you twisted them upside down and what the bill says is good work is not in line with the Constitution of Serbia. And you've reached for one more thing, and that's to burden the text of the bill with some meaningless norms that are inherently understood. Mr. Minister, I invite you to accept this amendment. He and how it makes sense, especially the part relating to Article 16(1), because it corrects the unconstitution that is contained in your formulation that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12239	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12240	With this amendment, we wanted to formulate a bit more clearly the situation in which we can find ourselves under Article 16 of this bill, as the legislator of the law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has repeatedly suggested that much is written here in order to make the bill clearer. The government even dared to say that there was a vague constitutional solution, so now the government further defines and resolves it by this bill. But you really can't stand that both in attitude 1 and in point 3. The government formulates something in a way that is simply unacceptable. It is clear when the President of the Republic stands out. The constitution said - if it expires at a time when it is an emergency or a war, it extends. And the government says in law - it can't run out. It's not true he can't run out of mandate. The term of office shall be five years and shall expire. It can only be extended, by force of the law, in accordance with constitutional provisions, during a time of war or emergency, or three months afterwards. So we can't legally say that the mandate can't expire. No, the mandate is up. It has been extended, but not as a mandate, but it has extended the stay of the President of the Republic during special circumstances. Imagine, point 3. The government has kindly told the President of the Republic -- you can resign at a time when, for example, it is a war or emergency. But how could you say - the President of the Republic cannot resign at a time of war or emergency? What's here to define what's natural, what's meant? It is the right of the President of the Republic to resign and this is not limited under the Constitution at all, and it is not particularly limited to the situation in which the country is located. So, it's his right to resign, and the government is kind enough to tell him now -- even in times of war or emergency, you can even when it rains, you can fly, you can fly in winter... Well, he can resign. What do you think the amendment has been made so he can't resign? To add the word "no" and we accept here and say, "President of the Republic," you can't resign. He was really playing the guy who wrote this bill. He played with the patience of the MPs. We need a draft law on the President of the Republic. It would have been better if there had been so far a law on the president than this proposal, so before we are members of the member, we are dealing with constitutional solutions rather than the development of the law. I could even complain in attitude 2, about this word "judgment", which we replaced by the words "right and obligation." So when it's called jurisdiction, it's usually meant for some rights. If you're in charge of something, it's the right to end something, to make a decision. I admit that widely interpreted jurisdiction could be both right and obligation, but it's much nicer to say "right and obligation". The word "responsibility" is one archaism, I think from the Austrian legal dictionary, which the bill promoter has continuously used and benefited in all the draft laws written by the Justice Secretariat. It's not jurisdiction and it's not the office of the President of the Republic. It's the Office of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic is not in charge. He has rights and obligations. And they're all prescribed by the Constitution. The law should have discussed the ways in which he fulfils his rights and obligations and the time in which he achieves what rights or obligations. So he's a completely excess, pointless member. We could've done it without him. If you think it's necessary to fix it, fix it, but since I don't see any great propriety for the legislator to accept the amendments that are truly beyond what is necessary, we'll continue to explain them to the end. The easiest thing to do is to send someone here who's not responsible for the bill, who's just smiling, and it's the government's obligation to sit here who wrote it, the one who knows what he wanted to say, the one who agrees with his bill. It makes me uncomfortable to tell Mr. Markovic that the bill is wrong when he knows it himself. And all the answer he can say is, I didn't write this. But that's no excuse for the government. We look to the government as a whole, not as a set of political parties each of whom has taken over its feud.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12241	Thank you. According to this amendment, MP Vladan Batic appears. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I really can't believe you can defend such a hornet and illogical provision. Indeed, fellow MPs are right to tell you that it is completely illogical, so let's not take any more serious variations of interpretation of the legal norm than the logical and the language. ''The President of the Republic cannot expire as long as the war or emergency... ''--the term of office expires when the term is, as long as the function of the president continues, and cannot be stopped, or extended. It could have been a sentence. "It can't expire" -- his term expires on the day his term expires, but his post as president does not stop because it lasts an emergency or a war. That's one thing. Secondly, here's clear evidence that this was written by the Balinian. I've read a dozen laws, Mr. Minister. Come on, if you can help me, maybe I'm not all -- did you in any law read the term "by force of the Constitution"? It doesn't exist. It is ugly and sad to use the wording "by force of the Constitution" in one country in the legal text. It is, then, a member of the same party that called the interior and justice ministries the force. Some people like the term "force" here a lot. If ye know that unto whom the law lieeth in the topus, his traces smell of inhumanity, a very good saying. By the power of the Constitution, where is it in the world? And this provision of Section 3 is completely too high. You can't say I didn't write the law, Mother, but I defend it with my heart and soul. Accept the amendments. Just accept that something's wrong. It doesn't matter that these amendments are proposed by someone from the ranks DHSS, SRS, LDP or anyone. This is illogical. Someone's gonna read this tomorrow. In one member, you have a bunch of mistakes and fouls. Give it a little bit of order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12243	Thank you. If no one ever answers for this amendment again, I'll conclude. We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlović, who proposes the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, amendment to Article 16. The bill, paragraph 3, is amended and reads: "The President of the Republic cannot resign during which his term of office has been extended, but may be resolved". So, Mr. Nikolic, there are MPs who thought of it, or MP groups, and that's the SPS. Of course, we know what the constitutional right of the President of the Republic is, but this can also be one reaction to what appears in the text of the law, that he can resign. As I see it, there was no previous law on the President of the Republic. He's showing up here now. For what? Is this perhaps encouraging the President of the Republic to resign in a particular difficult situation, namely in an emergency and war situation, or is this another proof that this law has been made according to a specific personality rather than by the measure of the institution of the Republic of Serbia? It's really too high a provision, and what's in response already comes from an idea and I want to explain it. This is that at the moment of the resignation of the President of the Republic, which is, in addition to acting as President of the Republic, and the commander-in-chief, he is in command of Serbia's military, enables the domino effect in the psychological sphere among the subjects of our country's defence. The President of the Republic is, as commander-in-chief, soldier number one who defends the country. If he resigns from that position, then it is a very bad message for all others who are in the defence system, who are in the military, so that they can resign from their places, or, if it can't be formally treated or accepted as resignation, it can give someone moral rights, even if it is subjective on someone's side, that they should desert, withdraw and not be in defense of the country or help the country in an emergency situation. So that's the essence and idea that came from. We believe that this resignation, that the president can resign in a state of emergency and war, should not actually appear as a special position at all. Of course, what is said in the second part of this attitude proposed here by the SPS – "but it can be resolved" – and as important as it is, and should be stressed, because the President of the Republic, especially in an emergency and in a wartime state, must have increased responsibility. When he accepted to be President of the Republic, he must be aware of those responsibilities. So if it doesn't take care of what's the country's interest, what's the defence of integrity, or if it sends the wrong messages, or if it doesn't command properly with the military, the armed forces, then it needs to be resolved and for these reasons, this is the attitude. When it comes to the eventual resignation of the President of the Republic in an emergency situation and in a state of war, I want to present here another aspect. Under the Constitution, it is decided that the President of the Republic replaces, of course, in peace, but whenever he performs his duties, which means both in war and in emergency, the President of the National Assembly. By being in Article 16. The bill provides that the President of the Republic can resign, we encourage and facilitate the situation. What if he didn't resign when the law said he could? You know, someone would be ashamed to think of it, let alone say it, or resign during the war. If a man is responsible and is in such a position, then he should not resign at any cost. There's no reason to make her that. What we're talking about is a moral question. If he resigns, and through the law, we make it easier for him to do so, we will be in a position to be replaced by the President of the National Assembly in war, and then he will discuss certain issues in Articles 200 and 201. The Constitution only decides with the Prime Minister. The two of them. The constitution says the decision to declare war and emergency is made by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly, if the Assembly cannot meet. They also deal with this narrowing of human and minority rights, etc. in the same situation, i.e. if the Assembly can't be called. This further complicates the situation, and this has not been taken into account. When we talk about the role of the President of the Republic as commander of the Army of Serbia, it means the commander-in-chief, who is at the top of the pyramid of the command system, then there is another reason why the President of the Republic cannot perform a party function when he heads the Army. He can also think of representing some of his party's political views. I'm not saying which, I don't mean a particular party at all. Please don't recognize yourself, you have no reason. We're talking about an institution. The Socialist Party is talking about the president's institution and we want to have it as we think is best. Maybe we're wrong, but let us take it out. So, on these occasions, when he commands the Army, there is something more to the eyes of the citizens, the people, the soldiers, the reservers, etc., that they should follow and listen to the commander who exaggerated, if not then, in the war, perhaps earlier, in peace, with some of his political views, etc. I stress again, the President of the Republic is gaining sovereignty by giving it sovereignty by its citizens. The moment he was elected, that sovereignty was given to him by all citizens, all of them passed on to him. He must respect, beyond his policies, all the citizens and abandon those policies. The only policy that the President of the Republic of Serbia can lead is the established policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in the interests of the country, not the other, even though it disagreed with his party's policy. No matter who it's about, he has to outrun his party's politics and politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12245	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The SPS time is five minutes away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Miletic Mihajlovic submitted, on behalf of the SPS and on his behalf, an amendment to Article 16(3). You've heard his argument, which I, as a People's MP, fully support. I have also heard the views expressed here when it comes to Article 16 which regulates the extension of the term of office of the President of the Republic. True, if we look at the Constitution, Article 116 clearly states in paragraph 2, "If the term of office of the President of the Republic expires during war or emergency, it shall be extended, so that it continues until the end of three months from the day of the end of the war or emergency". I believe that, if this member stays in the bill, the proposal of Miletic Mihajlovic, when it comes to attitude 3, and he refers to erasing his resignation and that the President of the Republic can be resolved, makes sense. If his term of office is extended at a time of emergency or war, I don't think it makes sense that the president can resign at the time, because it has negative psychological and all other connotations on the citizens, and above all because the President of the Republic is commander-in-chief and he commands the military. I would also like to point out that the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic has clearly and decidedly settled all issues, starting with elections, jurisdiction, working conditions, funding, pay entitlements, acquitability after the end of the term of office... The truth is, this law may be made according to a certain personality. The parliamentary groups and MPs themselves have tabled about 56 amendments. The government has accepted five. What was the purpose of this? The MPs wanted this law in principle and with amendments from the Assembly itself until its adoption to come out as high as possible. We can see that there were a lot of quality amendments, but there was no will for the minister to accept them. It seems to me that the MPs of this law, for many reasons, and the attributes given to the president, and the rights and duties that he has (the truth, it gives him the Constitution), simply, and each one has his own opinion, the SPS will not accept. In her explanation, the government said that the amendment does not accept Miletic for the reason it is denying the president's constitutional right to resign. Article 117. The Constitution gives it right to the president. Article 117 says, "When the president of the Republic resigns, he informs the public and the president of the National Assembly. On the day of the resignation, the President of the Republic shall cease his term of office." That means he's not a member of 117. The constitution was not clear and decided. He regulates the issue of resignation and therefore we support this amendment by Miletic Mihajlovic. As regards Article 226. Rules of Procedure, I would like to specifically ask the Minister's question. The minister doesn't now, but there's the State Secretary of the Ministry of State and local self-government. I would like to ask, for the sake of notice, whether they are aware that today's unions of government, justice and state organisations have had a union meeting, that the union presidency has taken the view that they are going to protest: 28.11. with a one-hour suspension of work from 10.00 to 11:00, 29.11. from 10.00 to 12.00. and 30.11. from 10.00 to 14:00 hours, with the announcement that they are on strike on 3 December and that the presidency of the Republic Committee is a strike committee. They explain it in a way that there has been no social dialogue between the government and the trade unions of administration, justice and social organisations. That's why I'm asking the question: is there going to be a social dialogue, in terms of resolving the union's demands? In particular, they relate to: 1st establishment of social dialogue; 2nd increase in the earnings of employees in state bodies and authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government; 3rd signing of a special collective contract for employees of state authorities and a special collective contract for employees of territorial autonomy and bodies of local self-government units; 4th amendment of the Law on civil servants and the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. I have information that a shift has been made, that there has been this social dialogue, that the intention is to increase 10% of the amount of funds for November, but that there is an unresolved question of signing a general collective contract and that they have extended the deadline until December 10, when there is the possibility of a strike in local self-government. So I am taking the opportunity to ask the minister and that the minister himself is influencing, given that the portfolio belongs to him, that the Government and the Ministry of Finance make an effort not to reach this point, given that the salaries are small, from 12,000 to 21,000 dinars. Take advantage of the opportunity to make it possible for citizens in municipalities not to be punished for the reasons that legal regulations are the way they are. And the Budget Law, which limited the space for salaries of government employees, was not rational for everyone. He punished those who obeyed the regulation and the Law on wages from before, and rewarded those who did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12247	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment to Article 17 that speaks of replacing the President of the Republic. The position of the 1st member, as the proposaler has delivered to us, has been practically taken over from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The position of Article 17 states: "If the President of the Republic resigns, is resolved or prevented from performing his post, it shall be replaced by the President of the National Assembly for the longest three months". Perhaps the promoter meant prevention in the sense that a man was sick and was unable to perform his function because of the disease. In that case, the President of the Republic, who is in such a situation, replaces the President of the National Assembly. But the promoter has limited that period to three months, so it can be replaced for a maximum of three months. Then, in its second and third positions, the Proposer speaks of the powers of the President of the Assembly in office of the President of the Republic, i.e. the President of the Assembly replacing the President of the Republic during this period of up to three months. There are a number of responsibilities that he can perform during that period. Of course, he can't do anything. Something that is the responsibility of the President of the Republic under the Constitution, the President of the National Assembly cannot perform during that period. What's controversial, and it's about this first attitude, is what happens after these three months. In fact, nowhere in the law on the President of the Republic is it prescribed what happens if the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duties even after three months, or if that prevention lasts longer than three months. What happens in that case? How will this situation overcome? I'm saying that the Constitution predicted such a situation, but the legislator did not pass the constitutional solution into the law, which should have been done. Unfortunately, the Constitution has remained unspeakable here, as it were - not accurate. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt The constitution, which speaks of replacing the President of the Republic, reads: "The elections for President of the Republic of the People's Assembly are required to be called in such a way that they shall be held no later than three months from the beginning of the prevention of the President of the Republic or the termination of the term of office to which he is elected." That's the problem now. If it's the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly to replace the President of the Republic to call elections within three months of prevention, then some things here are badly resolved. Then the president of the National Assembly would have to call the election on the first day the president of the Republic is prevented. Here is the controversial provision of the Constitution. Now, of course, we can't just change it, but it could at least be copied into law, so that we have it in law, so that the law doesn't remain unsettled. This is how the law is unspeakable. The law does not mean that the president's prevention lasts longer than three months. This situation was to be dealt with legally. Mr Krasic, in his amendment, predicted that Article 17, Article 3, should be put into effect. The bill after the word "replaces the President of the Republic" adds the text "and in the event of the prevention of the National Assembly President, the oldest vice-president of the National Assembly". So we have a new situation. What happens when the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duties and the President of the National Assembly? Does this leave to be resolved by law on the National Assembly? Do you apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure directly? I think it must be resolved by this law because we cannot now transfer with the President of the Assembly the powers conferred on him by the law on the President of the Republic. The Law on the President of the Republic transfers competences in a particular situation to the President of the National Assembly. How can we now transfer these powers to the vice president of the congregation if we do not regulate it by law? This law must be dealt with, as these are the powers of the President of the Republic and this law must be addressed, not left to apply to the Rules of Procedure, if we ever adopt that law on the National Assembly. Also, Mr Krasic further in his view 3. predicted that after the words "the President of the Republic", he would delete the text "and that every elected law should be declared an order" and that this would be replaced by the words "to call elections and declare the law by an order". So, the one who replaces the President of the Republic, if it is the President of the National Assembly, or if it is the oldest vice president in the event of prevention and the President of the Assembly, has the right and the obligation to call the elections. Once again, it should have been regulated by this law. You don't mean anything. Who knows which way we're talking about inaccuracies, vague formulations of this law. The legislator must make every formulation clear, be precise and unequivocal, and make any situation foreseeable and offer a solution to any situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12249	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has been issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one situation where the President of the Republic is prevented from performing his duties. The constitution predicted that it would be replaced by the president of the National Assembly, and the law elaborated the powers of the National Assembly during the replacement period. But we tried to solve another dilemma that could arise, because life carries all sorts of situations, which is -- what if something happens to the president of the National Assembly at the time of the replacement? Then Serbia remains without the president and without the right of any other elected person to replace it. We, indeed, intend to correct the bill's proposal, provided that the President of the National Assembly in case he replaces the President of the Republic, or the oldest Vice-President of the National Assembly at a time when he replaces the President of the National Assembly, and thus the President of the Republic, can carry out certain tasks under the authority of the President of the Republic, and above all to call elections, which was not foreseen by the legislator, and of course declares the laws. The one who responded on behalf of the Government did not want to get involved in the fact that this provision was necessary, but was so somewhat ironic, sarcastic, noticed that we did not see the same in the position of Article 2, Article 17, which also mentions the replacement of the President of the Republic by the President of the National Assembly, so now, my God, since you did not foresee in Article 2, we will not accept you in Article 3, even though the much more elegant solution was that the Government, by its amendment, says that this applies to Article 2. It's a bill of law. The constitution did not foresee it, nor could the Rules of Procedure, as the government said, to predict that a vice-president of the National Assembly would replace the President of the Republic. It's really not the matter of the Rules of Procedure, it's the matter of the law on the President of the Republic. That law goes deep. There is a possibility that the president cannot carry out his duties – replaced by the President of the National Assembly. When the President of the National Assembly can't, what do we do, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Who's going to call the election. Then who's authorized to call the election? Who's authorized to command the Army? It's about the President of the Republic of Serbia. For one second, it must not be left without the President of the Republic or the man who replaces him, and you have provided only two officials - the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly. We can run out of both of us for a minute. And look at the vice presidents, God give us, they're safe and sound, they're always four, five, six, and when you say the oldest, it's an inexhaustible list of people who can replace the President of the Republic. Maybe something for them, God forbid, can happen. If I were a representative of the government, I'd never say something could happen to anyone, I'd avoid it. It's unpredictable, but the government has to predict unforeseeable. It's the easiest thing for a man from the ministry here to say: it's unpredictable situations, we don't want to solve them, and they can happen. Now watch this, what does it say - if all seven can't do it? At least give it to this one who can't do it, at least deal with it. Since there is also an amendment to the SPS MPs' amendment to the same article, I would like to refer to irony and cynicism with only one sentence to which the Government has served as appropriate to the amendments. Imagine, the government, in an explanation of why the amendment refuses, says - matter regulated by this amendment is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have been telling the government for two days that the matter of the whole law is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government responds and says - so the law seems to be, solutions from the Constitution must be prescribed into the law. And when a MP proposes a constitutional solution as an amendment to the bill, the government says - e, can't, it already exists in the Constitution. Be principled. I know that what is like God is not like the ox, but if it is appropriate for you to prescribe constitutional solutions, then leave opportunities for the MPs. Say, we do not accept the amendment, and do not state that the reason for not accepting is that it led you when you wrote the whole bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12251	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12252	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SPS believe that in Article 17, a supplement should be made, i.e. the following point 2 is added: "If the President of the National Assembly replaces the President of the Republic during an emergency or wartime situation, the replacement function shall be carried out by the end of three months from the date on which the war or emergency has ceased, with the same duties and obligations as the President of the Republic". The existing position 2 and paragraph 3 become point 3 and point 4. So this amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of the SPS, is trying to elaborate in detail on the constitutional provision dealing with this issue. In a response the government has given not to accept this amendment, it says: "Amendment is not accepted. In Article 116(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution results in the entry 1st Amendment '. Item 2 of Article 116 The Constitution says, "If the term of office of the President of the Republic expires during a war or emergency, it shall be extended, so that until the end of three months from the day of the end of the war or emergency." I ask you: have you noticed the relationship between the amendment that has been filed, which speaks of replacing the President of the Republic during the emergency and wartime conditions, and the position of Article 116(2)? The Constitution, which speaks of something else entirely? So this is where the government called for the wrong attitude, the wrong member, I think. If I'm wrong, I beg you, Mr. Secretary of State, to explain that I am driving my error away from me. Even if it's another member of the Constitution, where they want to indicate that it's regulated by the Constitution, and then no such amendment should be submitted, then what are the laws for? As Mr Tomislav Nikolic said – what is the function of the law? Then what do we need laws for when we have a Constitution? We'll do everything according to the Constitution. And is the Constitution so precise, is it so decided, explicitly clear and ensnared, that it can predict all situations? This is where the SPS tried to define in detail this issue of replacing the President of the Republic in an emergency and military state. I think the only thing you can call it is if we get into a situation like this, just the principle of meaning, which is not a legal category. There's some legal logic here, etc. Do you agree, Mrs. Radeta, with that? Sure, nice to meet you, thank you. So it can't be based on what's meant. It's logical. Well, because it's logical, that's why we suggested it, but it needs to be worked out, as you say, or legally defined in the law. And that's why the SPS proposes that this amendment, whether by means of a mechanism over the board or how you, however, adopt because it doesn't really bother anything. He's just clarifying and preciseing one situation that won't be in the sphere of improvisation tomorrow, nothing else. It doesn't cost anyone anything, it doesn't bother anyone politically, it's all in the spirit of the Constitution and, of course, it regulates everything precisely. For these reasons, I suggest, on behalf of the SPS, that you find the mechanism and, please, Mr Secretary of State, that you pass it on to the Minister – and, here you are, I apologize, I am glad that you are here. You probably weren't in a position to follow me, but I was saying that this amendment doesn't bother anyone, that it only defines to the end, helps us get out of a given situation in the sphere of improvisation and something that is meant or legally logical, so that it would only be useful and improve quality in that part of the law, if Serbia were to find itself in that situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12253	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12254	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I'd just like to give a few explanations. I'd like to quote the amendment first. Article 18 is amended and reads: "The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers whenever a new government is elected. The President of the Republic is obliged to listen to the opinion of representatives of elected electoral lists and to propose to the National Assembly that candidate for Prime Minister who has the support of most of the total number of MPs confirmed by their signatures. If, within 45 days of the day of the constitution of the National Assembly, none of the candidates provides the required majority, the President of the Republic will propose as a candidate for the Prime Minister to the National Assembly a representative of the largest parliamentary group." The solution offered in the draft law on the President of the Republic is unclear. Similarly, this is the content of our amendment. The proposed solution therefore provides broad opportunities for abuse and malicious interpretation, which may lead to the initiation of the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic, in accordance with the non-execution of its constitutional obligations. By preciseing the provisions of this article and by giving clear provisions and deadlines, obstruction by the President of the Republic and the parliamentary groups giving candidates for Prime Minister would be impossible. Our amendment is similar to what colleagues from the SRS suggested, specifically MP Dragan Todorovic, with their deadlines for what we propose shorter. We believe that a 45-day deadline is reasonable to carry out consultations, and the content of our amendment in a clear enough way gives us the opportunity to avoid post-election agony that we had after the last parliamentary elections, when we had to hold a session of the Assembly during the night and choose the government within a minute to twelve. This proposed amendment allows for the possibility of preventing such post-election agony and enough time to enable the government to form adequately. Let me mention, these solutions already exist in the constitutions of other countries and in the laws that regulate this issue. I will only state the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What we have proposed is nothing new, but only allows for a far more effective and painless approach to the formation of a government. In the first version, we predicted a 30-day deadline. But later we made a correction. We believe that dividing the 90-day period into two parts is a perfectly reasonable approach to this problem, so that the adoption of this amendment would improve the proposal for a law on the President and that we would avoid all the dangers that I was talking about earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12255	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 18th Amendment with corrections was filed by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a large number of amendments proposed by the SRS, it proposes not only to improve the law, but, based on the experiences it has in its long opposition work, in this way trying to avoid all the situations and all the problems we have faced in advance. We propose amendments to a law that would allow us to avoid such problems. Among other things, this amendment is one of those. A short time ago, we had the opportunity to attend a rather painful and difficult situation, that time had passed without the government being formed. Less or less such situations can be quite common, especially when it comes to political partners who have been unable to co-operate for a decade anymore. They can trade, but political cooperation can't. You are aware of the fact that today and today this government is only being held together by trade, that is, your reasons for your policy – to distribute the power that involves the ministries, the authority that implies the possibility of getting public enterprises to host their personnel, boards of directors, various agencies, the National Bank of Serbia, the authority that means to sell out what little remains in Serbia. For these very reasons, these commercial reasons, which were led by President Boris Tadic immediately after the elections, we are trying to disable it by predicting this member of the law and obliging the president to take certain steps to avoid this possibility that we have already had. You assumed you'd make a deal. You often or almost always work based on conjecture. You'll assume the mayor's election will be less than six months, so you don't call the election. For what? Because you don't stand a chance in the election. You assume this, you assume, and the law should be perfectly precise and not leave the President of the Republic, especially when it comes to this situation, to calculate and trade. We have time corrections on the amendment, we haven't taken care of the constitutional limit of 90 days. Now it's fixed and you have, Mr. Minister, the opportunity to see that we've given enough time for the President of the Republic to try to reach the government in 75 days. If that doesn't happen, we oblige him to entrust the mandate to the party that won the largest number of votes, which certainly won't happen anytime soon when it comes to DS, don't even think about such an option. It could possibly be the second in line to be called by the president, but it is understood that it will first call on the representative of the SRS, because I do not need to tell you about the results of December 2003 and all the research lately. And you've had this latest research, that you're slowly returning to some positions from some time when you stood well, so don't worry about it at all. Here was the wish, and I think you will agree, regardless of who the president is, to prevent him from stalling at that moment, as Boris Tadic did, but rather asking him to offer the strongest party first, after that, if she is unable to provide the majority in parliament within seven days, to offer the next party in power in parliament, so if the party is not able to put together the government, then disband the Assembly and to disband the new elections. Mr. Minister, I remember your words. I can see you're not listening to me, but here, I'll remind you of what I think you remember well. Remember how Kostunica resorted to a skillful maneuver so that you would be in a position to simply agree to conditions that are much worse than objectively your strength in parliament. Not only have you agreed to much worse conditions by forming a government, but you are now agreeing to many concessions because you are in such a situation that there is not much choice – the drone has found an extremely good way to agree to the drone to perform everything that suits it. I just remind you that at one point you offered quite frankly that we should agree to eliminate these Kostunicas from the political scene. Here, you laugh, but you remember that well. I think it may be approaching that time, because who can endure this kind of and this kind of pressure from Vojislav Shesh... Bones, what are you... You got a problem, I see. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Okay... (laughs) There's one thing that's completely normal. When I mention Vojislav Kostunica, the name Vojislav, it is normal that my first association, Vojislav Seselj, and when I mention Vojislav, is your first association of pressures, and these are perfectly normal things. Mr. Minister, look at this amendment. I think we could solve a lot of problems if you took it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12257	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution says the President of the Republic has entrusted the term of office to the government's candidate after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. In Article 18. The bill of law did not concern you with the discussion of how the President of the Republic proposed a candidate for Prime Minister. You said, "The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of Prime Ministers whenever a new government is elected." So he doesn't suggest when choosing the old government. And then you said, "The President of the Republic is obliged to propose to the National Assembly that candidate for Prime Minister who can secure the government's choice." Because of the situation in Art. 109, 130 and 132. The constitution, we worked it out, because all deadlines are different. There is a 90-day deadline, and that is the deadline within which the newly established National Assembly is required to elect a government. We predicted that within 90 days it would be perfectly reasonable to wait 75 days for the congregation to be created. If it is not available, the President of the Republic should call on the representative of the strongest parliamentary group to give him time of seven days to create the majority. If that is not possible, the president gives the other one seven more days and, if that is not possible, he disbands the Assembly. The second case is when the government suspended its mandate, according to the Art. 130nd and 1322nd. The constitution, either the Prime Minister has resigned, or the government's mistrust has been passed. In that case, the Constitution provides for a 30-day deadline for the government's election. We predict that it is enough 15 days to create a congregation majority, and seven days are given right to the representative of the strongest parliamentary group, seven days to the second in power, and there is an elimination of the crisis that happens whenever you have to bargain, you guess... So, we oblige you, we shorten your deadline for coalition settlements, to speed up the whole procedure, to make things serious, so there is no government election at midnight and the second the 90-day deadline for the government's election. Many citizens have asked me if we could prevent the choice of this government where you are now a minister, Mr. Markovic. I said we could've stopped the choice in accordance with the Constitution, but we couldn't stop the choice. They would have chosen the government that night, or tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, and they'd say, "We've started choosing the government, we don't have to pick it in 90 days, now we can do it in 120 days." But if you really want to introduce everything into constitutional and legal frameworks, please, when you write bill proposals, predict as many situations as possible. That you do not leave unsaid, that you do not leave the Constitutional Court to interpret the laws and to interpret whether any general act is in accordance with the law because it is absolutely not intended, so there will be a re-election of the judges, so these of your DSS will vote in one way, these of yours from the DS in another way, I think there will be another party of one or two judges, and there will be chaos and in the Constitutional Court. After this proposal by the Constitutional Court judges and this kind of election, you really can't say that we have a Constitutional Court in Serbia, but that we have a multi-party Constitutional Court. The question is what kind of protection citizens will have against such a constitutional court. Whether they will have to show the legitimacy of a political party in order to have a passover with a judge, and whether that legislation will bother them that some other judge will rule in their favour even though they are absolutely right. So, if the constitution provided for the President of the Republic to listen to the opinion of representatives of parliamentary groups, the law has the right to develop deadlines and the way it will listen to the opinion of representatives of parliamentary groups, one representing 126 or more in the Serbian Assembly, or one representing 90, 100, 80, 50, it depends on how high-ranking and second-placed they are. And this is all in the desire for the bill to be improved, for the elected President of the Republic of the SRS to truly perform its function in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12259	I thank Mr. Nikolic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd just like to say a few words about the amendment that was filed here. The essence of this amendment and the amendments made by the SPS, Mr Rajko Baralic and Miletic Mihajlovic, is that they have the same wish – to develop the mechanism that the President of the Republic can propose a candidate for Prime Minister. If the promoter, or the government had a good will, she could, if nothing else, make up one of these proposals that would be acceptable to everyone, offer it to the Justice Committee this morning and be an amendment to the government. Because this condition, which was in May of the month, which we all remember well, when the maltenes are in a minute to twelve elected government, is unacceptable. Why? The constitution only says that "the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister, after hearing the opinion of the representatives of the elected electoral lists", he still does not speak. In the second place, the Constitution says, "The National Assembly is disbanded if, within 90 days of the day of its constitution, it chooses no government," it still says nothing. What was the point here? The constitution does not prohibit the law on the President of the Republic from being precise and says that the President of the Republic is obliged to do everything he can to prevent the government from being elected. If it remained as it was formulated, there are several unknowns. Let us say, in the position of 2nd of this article, "The President of the Republic is obliged to propose to the National Assembly that candidate for Prime Minister who can secure the government's choice." How will it come to that information Mr. President of the Republic and when will it come to that? We had a situation in May that the President of the Republic proposed the Prime Minister at the last minute. Several variations were offered here -- to be heard, to be given first to the candidate who can provide the majority, Mr Rajko Baralic even suggested that they be signed by 126 MPs. You've been offered several variations on how to get there. What else is wrong with this? We're missing deadlines. In what time must the President of the Republic come out with a proposal for a candidate for Prime Minister? What can happen? For three months to pass, the President of the Republic continues to talk to voters, there are no candidates because, behold, there is no way of knowing who can have the majority and the Assembly is disbanding. In that case, the electoral will of the citizens is in the hands of the President of the Republic. Please, Mr. Minister, take another good look at all four amendments. Each in its own way contributes to how to arrange, how to find out that the President of the Republic can have a majority mandate, what to do if he has not provided most, so to show and prove that within that three-month period, he will do everything he can to propose a candidate for Prime Minister, that is to say, the Assembly to the Government. If that were not the case, then the mandate of all MPs of the electoral will would be in the hands of the President of the Republic. I think it has quite enough elements to solve this problem in the best way. The amendments have also offered you a deadline, and how to get to the point where you can confide in someone who can put together most of them, and what in the next case, to whom more is offered. So, it fills the entire space of three months that the Constitution provides for the government to be built, otherwise the National Assembly is disbanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12261	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12262	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only make one brief comment on the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. It reads, "In case the proposed candidate for Prime Minister fails to secure the government's election, the President of the Republic will propose a new candidate in the Constitution and by law certain deadlines." Perhaps it should have been even more precise to define this in order to create the obligation of the President of the Republic to make the constitutional and legal deadlines of optimal use, i.e. to use time in the best possible way in those deadlines, because stratifying and waiting three months for the outcome of some political arrangements is certainly not in the spirit of what is the provision of a 90-day law, or a second time of 30 days, if the government is re-elected in the mandate from that assembly. So, what was the situation at the beginning of this year, after the parliamentary elections, until May (February 14th), the government was elected, I think, on May 15th), such a situation is indeed a rare example in the political experiences or systems of other countries. But even if there are, should we imitate such examples? At the beginning of the year, we had a difficult political situation because of what Ahtisaari was up to, who wanted to propose his solutions to Kosovo's status in a vacuum. The citizens were in suspense whether they would finally be elected to the office of all the institutions of our country. They wondered if we with full state capacity were going out to the world to defend our interests, to defend Kosovo and Metohija, to defend integrity, independence and sovereignty. And if we're playing with these things for what they are political games or political agreements, and if on one, let's say, vulgar or inappropriate way (to use a nicer word), we use that time that is set by the Constitution, so we do it in a minute to twelve -- I think it's unserious. This is not acceptable and is not appropriate for serious political entities to lead this country. For these reasons, there is an attempt through amendments from the SPS MPs, but here, it is not important if it is a good amendment from the SRS, meaning it is not at all a question, or if there is another one, it is important to improve the law in this part too, so that this deadline is indeed optimal and used in the best possible way to be able to choose the government from that parliamentary majority that can be created, and not that, if the President of the Republic does not like the candidate from some other majority, if it is not from some majority, on a foreign line, or on some other lines, if it is not a member of the Republic's party, it disbands the Assembly so that this country is very quickly costing these elections again, to go to Jovo again. The explanation given by the government, which rejects the amendment, says the content of the tabled amendment is contained in Article 18 of the proposed law. The point is that this amendment has been proposed in vain because it already states in Article 2. It's a bill of law. The position of Article 18(2) states: "The President of the Republic is obliged to propose to the National Assembly that candidate for Prime Minister who can secure the government's choice. ''I don't see, or I don't understand, 'I will allow myself to say that here, through this position, the President of the Republic has been told that he has repeated his attempt through the proposal of another candidate for Prime Minister. It seems to me before me that this second attitude, in another way, and in one new set of sentences, is what is already in attitude 1. For these reasons, the SPS through its amendments is trying, as likely, and I am sure, and amendments to other parliamentary groups, to improve this member, in order for the President of the Republic to really play his role in the best possible way and to meet with full capacity what is its constitutional obligation, to elect a government and to exhaust absolutely all that possibility that exists from a particular set of elected MPs, or from that majority that can be made to choose a government, which is certainly in the interest of our country of Serbia. I repeat, what we had at the beginning of this year, that we waited three months, we were in agony, in the worst situation, when the country was really in a major crisis, and that it should not happen again. And in pre-election campaigns for these parliamentary elections, for example, we had the slogan "Serbia Can't Wait". What can't wait? And then we choose the government at night, one minute to twelve, at the end of the constitutional term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12263	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Željko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I see the MPs are a little tired, so they eased their concentration, but good. I know, Mr. Minister, that you don't respect the MPs, especially me, but at least hold back a little while and try to give this home dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12265	Mr Vasiljevic, the minister was the vice president of this home in the last session, so he obviously misses this presidency.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12266	Do you think it's a guarantee that he respects it? I don't think that's a guarantee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12267	Excuse me, please. Here, I'm giving you a new time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12268	It's not a problem in time. Since it's about the amendment, I have plenty of time to talk. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the MPs of the opposition have indeed seen the importance of this member of the law, and that is why they have submitted this number of amendments to it. Why is this member of the law essential? For one very simple reason. Some of my predecessors have already talked about it, but I think I'll make it a little clearer. If the president of the Republic of Serbia is not satisfied with the election results and is not satisfied with the composition of this parliament, it can be very easy, using the provisions of Article 18, to lead to a situation where this parliament is disbanded because it will not propose a government candidate who can provide the majority. For what reason? Because this member of the law is not clearly defined and defined as criteria and parameters that must be met in order for the President of the Republic to appoint a candidate for Prime Minister who can secure the government's choice. Is that "honest word," "mommy," "I can do it"? What are the criteria to meet this future candidate for prime minister, or Prime Minister? That's why I think any of these amendments proposed by the opposition representatives would really significantly improve this law and reduce the possibilities of the President of the Republic to abuse its function and... Since we've moved on to other topics, I can see that no one is interested in what the MPs are saying anymore. Mr. President, these are completely irregular conditions for Parliament's work. So we MPs are really talking in the wind.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12269	I'm asking for some peace in the O.R. and I'm asking Mr Vasiljevic to continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12270	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to be as short as possible. I really ask you to think carefully about the amendment, which was submitted first of all by the SPS representative Mr Miletic Mihajlovic, because he will significantly improve this law and limit the possibilities of the president of the Republic of Serbia to abuse his office and change the electoral will of citizens if he is not satisfied with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12271	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12272	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I'll only be two minutes, and Mr. Secretary will accept this amendment. In order not to imply what 'he who can provide the majority' means, I have tried to define it with my amendment – that whoever comes to the President of the Republic, I am talking about the President or representative of the political parliamentary party, if he really has a serious intention, and can prove it, to provide a mandater, or a sufficient number of MPs to elect the Government, then he can do so in such a way that he has previously provided written consent of 126 or more MPs. That's how two things are regulated. The president is reducing the space for political combinations, which certainly exist and which are legitimate. That's right, President, I don't dispute. The president has his own political interest in forming a government that is at his will if possible. On the other hand, it is shortened this time because it is completely pointless to discuss, not in protocol, but seriously, with representatives of those parties who do not have enough mandates to choose the government. If you would accept my amendment, this would be a medium solution. In an effective way, we would get the government and avoid the various speculations that otherwise exist in this regard. In this way, you do not deprive the President of any of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, you do not reduce any rights to political parties that exist, each had the opportunity to single out (I do not like that term, but it is about something that works today in all areas) and if someone says it has 126 and can prove it by the signatures of these MPs, everyone else has 124. And that story about forming a government is over this way. The president then, in the Constitution and the law, is entrusted with the mandate and the National Assembly is meeting and electing the Prime Minister and its programme. That thing's completely clean. I invite you, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment. Of this, you have no political harm, nor do we have any political benefit, Serbia will get an effective way to choose a government that corresponds to most of those who have agreed to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12273	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12274	Ladies and gentlemen, it's 7:30. We've been working for almost ten hours today. The opposition's MPs are indeed making every effort to explain every amendment submitted to this law. No MP from the DSS and the G17 plus is in the O.R. This refers to the relationship between the coalition, or part of the coalition, and according to this law and to the minister sitting with us today. I know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we can work and if only one MP is present, but we should really be aware that we are talking about the law on the President of the Republic, that this is a very serious bill and that it is necessary for all MPs to participate in the work. Of course, I don't call anyone, nor can I make anyone come out to talk about any amendment, but believe me that it's absolutely incomprehensible that the MPs of the assembly majority don't feel the need to at least show that they know what we're talking about today, that at least one sentence about some amendment says, that if anything else, they help Minister Milan Markovic, who apparently found himself in an unguarded grape today because he has to defend the amendment to the bill written by Zoran Balinovac, he has to listen here to the arguments of that same Mr Balinovac, who are once truly and funny, in any case, incomprehensible. Sometimes when someone interferes and laughs in the hall, then it's always because MPs comment on the arguments that the government gives why it doesn't accept some amendments. I am talking about the amendment of my colleague, Veroljub Arsic, to Article 20, which speaks of the disbanding of the National Assembly. That is why I mentioned this in the opening statement, about the relationship between the ruling coalition's MPs to the work of parliament and the relation of MPs, especially from the DSS and the G17 plus, which apparently already feel like the Assembly is disbanded. Maybe they know something we, the other MPs, don't know, because they've been gone in the O.R. for days. And here's Mr. Miloljub Albianic, the light copy of the G17 Plus party. At least he was following our work today, which isn't bad either. I don't think it's good, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that you're considering an extension of today's work, since we have 18 amendments to be discussed. You can see that MPs spend about 30 minutes on one amendment, just as much as, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have a parliamentary opportunity. Not to recalculate now, but that means we should be here considering these remaining 17 or 18 amendments. It's inhumane at least. We understand your need and desire to end this as soon as possible, but you could have finished it faster and easier to convince Minister Markovic to accept a number of amendments, that he accepted our principled remark that the laws do not serve in them to prescribe the provisions of the Constitution. Of course, since we haven't come across an understanding by the minister or the majority of parliament, we have to, that's our obligation, and we want to, after all, not to be misread, we, the MPs of the SRS, are currently a small number here, but we are enough, we are ready to participate in the work until the end, to talk about all 18 amendments. Our other MPs are, and we were supposed to be there, but unfortunately we couldn't, guests of the Palestinian Embassy at one of their events at the Sava Center. That is why they do not sit here in the congregation hall and participate in today’s work. I say, we don't mind it, we just have one thing, and especially as many of us, we're ready and we can work all night. But take care, Mr. President, that we have another law waiting for us tomorrow. That you planned and that you set up a session in advance with a set date, and in brackets: that is until this current session is over – that is your poor assessment and we cannot really meet you there at the expense of our parliamentary work. We are for co-operation, we are for a proper relationship, we are not for no reason, nor have we been reporting to the Rules of Procedure for no reason today, and we are mostly never doing so, but because of your speed, we are doing damage to our parliamentary group and to create the impression of non-serious MPs, that, absolutely, we will not. You figure out if you can until this time of yours that you've planned for an extension of your work, as I understand it, by 10:00, I'm telling you that by then there's no way of ending what's on the agenda, that is, this bill. You have the right to decide, decide. We won't mind. I want to say, first of all, for the sake of the public, and I need to explain and remind the citizens that it seems to me, about three days ago, we had nothing to do because you had the wrong plan and you connected some points of the agenda that were not even actually possible to link us into a single debate, instead of discussing one point, and then the next day about another, to pass those 24 hours to discuss the amendments. I am sorry that you are unable to organise it so nicely and then all the MPs suffer criticism from Serbian citizens, suffer criticism from the media, then the media say: what you are doing there – sometimes you only do two hours, sometimes you don't do all day. Then when someone thinks we should be very valuable, then we do 12, 13, 14, 15 hours. I don't think that's right, and that's not a good way to function in this House. Mr. President, I believe that you and the doctor have an understanding of what I'm saying, because the question is, how much we're able to normally participate in the work after ten hours, and how much you can track us and how many ministers are able to follow us. There's still more of us, so we can get some rest between the two amendments, but I don't know how the minister is and if he's able to follow us so he can even participate in the work. Mrs. Kolundjia, thank you for informing me that the minister is well. I see he's fine. He's been walking around all day. He has not answered a single question of the MP. He's advertised a nice suit, that's all he's doing here today all day. We don't expect it from the minister. We expect the minister to participate in the work. When we make the arguments that we propose an amendment, the minister should say why he thinks the amendment should not be accepted, and then we replicate to him, and then he talks again. So there's no reason -- welcome, you gentlemen of the DSS -- to cut this debate short in any way, and we won't. I return to the amendment to my 20th colleague, Veroljub Arsic. This Article 20 speaks of the disbanding of the National Assembly and what is written in the bill, which is that "the President of the Republic can disband the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal of the Government", and then (imagine what the law says) says: "The President of the Republic is obliged to disband the National Assembly in cases set by the Constitution". This is really amazing. Instead of saying what are the cases provided for in the Constitution, the law says "in the cases provided for in the Constitution". I've read a lot of laws, I've applied them in practice, I've read a lot of proposals from various governments, but this is a bad text and this is really the first time I've seen it. He goes on to say, "In both cases, with an indication of the disbanding of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic makes a decision calling for elections for MPs. The President of the Republic cannot disband the National Assembly as it lasts war or emergency." If I wanted to bother the MPs, I'd read Article 109. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which also includes the title "Deposit of the National Assembly", and then all that is written in article 20 of this bill. I repeat again, of course, you understand that I am saying this, first of all, for the sake of the public, in order to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to show on concrete examples how irresponsible and irresponsible the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, what laws the National Assembly proposes. What do we have here today? For ten hours, we've been discussing amendments to the proposal for a law that has a total of 47 members, and I've already said that, and I think there are about 25 amendments asking for the Members to be deleted because about 25 members of the Constitution have been prescribed into this law. So, the government was ashamed, apparently, that there were only 20 or 22 members of the president's law, because they would have been so many if they hadn't prescribed the Constitution, and then they thought that, well, they would be distracting the MPs, that they were distracting the citizens of Serbia, that you could – now you're late, Mr. Dulic (if you're still here, just checking) – to go to the Public Service log, to say that the MPs would work day and night, that the Assembly would not stop working, that we had passed so many laws, that we had passed so many laws. That story is already familiar to us, Mr. Dulic. Don't make up for what you missed, what your government missed, what your majority missed. I remind you of the Law implementing the Constitution, Articles 3, 5 and 9. We talked about it very often. If you extend your work longer than 20.00 hours, as far as we had a previous agreement, then we will continue to remind you how many deadlines from the Law on the Implementation of the mouth you missed, that the citizens of Serbia see why we haven't done it for so long, which is why we've been making some totally irrelevant or minor regulations, which is why we've come to the situation that you're thinking about calling elections without having laws to regulate that matter. If you insist, Mr. Dulic, we are prepared to explain this to the citizens of Serbia tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12275	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for individual DS MPs, this debate seems to be very funny. They sleep all day, they don't participate, they have no idea what this is all about, and then they get out of the place, and you, Mr. President, tolerate it. I must say, it is really unclear to me what criteria the legislator of this law used when he systematiced legal norms in the respective members and when he wrote these subtitles above those members. Chapter III of the Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic shall bear the heading 'The responsibilities of the President of the Republic which are related to the National Assembly'. Then the members of 18 and 19 are systematicized in a way that is relatively fine. The title of "Proposal for Prime Minister" is above article 18. Above article 19, the title is "Returning the Law to Re-determination". Then one law and obligations of the President of the Republic are systematised even in three members, with three different subtitles, with the texts of those members almost identical. The subtitle above article 20 reads, "The Disband of the National Assembly." The subtitle above article 21 is "The Disbandment of the National Assembly on Government's Proposal". Now a man would get the impression that Article 20 is about disbanding the National Assembly without a proposal from the Government, and Article 21 on the disbanding of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. It would be concluded by anyone who follows a session of the National Assembly without having the text of the bill in front of him. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. So, above Article 20, is the title of "The Disband of the National Assembly." Paragraph 1 of Article 20 reads: "The President of the Republic can disband the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the Government". The subtitle above article 21 is "The disbandment of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government", and Section 1 says, "The President of the Republic is required to bring an order within 72 hours to disband the National Assembly or to inform the Government and the public that he does not accept the Government's proposal". It's really funny giving these subtitles over the corresponding members. This brings additional confusion into the bad text of the bill anyway. National MP Momir Markovic suggested that Article 21 delete Article 2 which reads: "The President of the Republic will not consider the Government's proposal to disband the National Assembly if a proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly for the Government to vote for mistrust, if the National Assembly has not accepted the Government's response to the impediment or if the Government has submitted a proposal to vote on confidence in the Government." This is nothing more than repeating what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I really don't understand the intention of the legislator of this law. What, in fact, is the ultimate goal of this law -- to achieve as many members as possible, to fascinate, I guess, the OSCE mission in Serbia that a detailed and comprehensive law on the President of the Republic has been passed, to fascinate the White House or that famous Venice Commission, or that there is a quality and core bill, or a complete law on the President of the Republic, which, in fact, just closely edits what it says in the Constitution? So, in one place, you have the Constitution literally rewritten, and when the MPs of the SRS propose that an amendment be introduced which, in fact, re-repeats the Constitution, then you say it's already written in the Constitution. You didn't even bother literally copying what the Constitution says, but you completely twisted the text of the Constitution, entered some rhogobatical formulations, some language novelty, entered a complete confusion. Instead of having the text of the bill containing even those prescribed constitutional formulations, you have completely twisted sentences from the Constitution and then what it says in the Bill's proposal is not only linguistical, not only legally incorrect, but simply not in accordance with the Constitution. Mr. President of the National Assembly, I'd like to draw your attention to what Mrs. Witcha Radeta said to you. Obviously, not all MPs in this congregation are in the same position. Some MPs have been savingly working on these amendments since this morning, since 10:00. We've invested an extremely large number of amendments. We believe that all amendments are acceptable, that they correct the bad text of the bill, while, on the other hand, representatives of the ruling majority almost do not participate in the work of the National Assembly at all, except that they earn, which they think are very smart when they speak from the scene. Here we're looking at a minister who's been running around for about an hour and a half this morning to explain what's public, what's private, then raised his hands from answering the MPs, walking around in the O.R., on the phone, walking around the halls, carrying some bags, etc. So, Mr. President, it really wouldn't be right to work after 2:00. We are discussing an extremely important bill. This is a matter that is interesting for Serbian citizens as well. And there's one more thing that should define you to stop working at 2:00. Namely, on the TV "Fox" is the confrontation of SRS Secretary General Alexander Vukic and, not to use our president's syntagm, the Ustasha whore Natasa Kandic, president of the humanitarian law fund. A large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12277	Mr. Martinovic, because of this statement, I give you a warning. It really doesn't make sense to talk about any citizen like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12278	Mr. President, I was just quoting the title of a book that's been read a lot. A large number of Serbian citizens are looking for this book – it bears witness to its quality. You're not appropriate to determine how any author will call his book. Leave that to the author himself. I only repeated part of the title of one of the latest books by Vojislav Seselj – "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". Now, this Natasa Kandić at 2:00 p.m....
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12279	Now I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12280	So, at 2:00 a.m., there's a face-to-face with Alexander Vukic and the MPs of the SRS, and the citizens of Serbia would very much like to watch this confrontation, so please stop working hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12281	Here, and I invite the citizens to watch this confrontation, and I really ask you to do nice, not to say such things about any citizen of this country. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, answered the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12282	That's the title of the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12283	Well, it's not the title of the book, when it comes to the person, the name and last name, and that one adjective. Come on, now the People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, is going to explain it to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12284	First of all, I am shocked, Mr. President, that you are trying to censor the titles of books published in Serbia. I really can't believe it. Is that because we've been working too long? We have told you well: you will not endure; you will lose your concentration; and here is what you have done now. Who are you, Mr. Dulic, to censor the title of Dr. Vojislav Seselj's book? Are you even aware of what you just did? The last book by Dr Vojislav Seselj is called "The affair of the Croats and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". I'm expecting a warning. Or would you like to make a note to Vojislav Seselj for writing that book and putting that title on it?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12285	Since you insisted on warning, I give you a warning because the title is really offensive. We can spend hours discussing whether he's offensive...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12286	We'll spend till tomorrow. Let me remind you, Mr. Dulic, that the night Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of your colleague Sutanovac's Parliament, Dusan Petrovic, Srdjan Milivojevic quoted the title of Dr. Vojislav Seselj's "Political partner of the whore del Ponte and the whore of del Kostunica". At that time, no one gave anyone a warning, and they should not give a warning, and if you are protecting the character and the work of Natasha Kandic, it is indeed your problem. We know, and that's what we told you at the beginning, that you're Parliament Speaker thanks to Sonja Licht. We know you're a child of NGOs. But that doesn't give you the right, and we won't let you, Mr. Dulic, go so far as to think that you're assessing whether he's offensive or not the offensive title of Dr. Vojislav Seselj's book. Or anyone's books. Do you see all the titles of books appearing in the bookshops in Serbia? Is that any kind of problem? Of course not. The author has the right to call the book whatever he thinks he should call her. Which is why he did it, it's his business. And you to tell the MPs of the warning, to give me a warning because I say that tonight, in seven cities in Serbia, there is a promotion of the last book of Vojislav Seselj (for the time being) called "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic"?- I'm sorry. In seven cities in Serbia there is a promotion of the book tonight. If you weren't going to send your CIA, BIA, I don't know who to arrest people who talk? We all talk about these promotions and listen to thousands of citizens. They don't mind. And I'm really sorry, Mr. Dullich, for showing your true face. I really expected, or was convinced, that you were a democracy, a young man, a reasonable man. You were little when the books were censored, I don't know where you came from, and who you inherited it from that you even thought of censoring the title of someone's book or book. May it serve you honor and be assured that we will remember this and remind you through the Rules of Procedure very often of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12287	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm sorry, we've finished that amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mirovic has submitted an amendment to Article 22, where he predicted that the 1st number of '90' be replaced by '30'. What is Article 22? It refers to the disbanding of the National Assembly as the constitutional duty of the President of the Republic. Article 22 reads: "The President of the Republic is obliged to disband the National Assembly if the National Assembly does not elect a Government within 90 days of the day of its constitution or if it does not elect a new Government within 30 days of the date on which the previous Government has ceased its term of office." A lapus was obviously made here, as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also defined that the deadline for the election of the new government was 90 days. Our wish was, and this is, in fact, something similar to Mr. Todorovic's amendment to Article 18, that these deadlines are somehow shortened. Since the Constitution has defined this, we need to think about amending the Constitution and there are other problems with it, so very quickly we need to think about doing it. These deadlines should be considered to be shortened in the Constitution itself. We had this year, after the last parliamentary elections, the situation that we had won the government on the last, 1990s since the constitution of the Assembly, at five to twelve o'clock in the evening. This situation should be overrun somehow. Serbia is not in a position today to wait three months for the new government. I'd like Mr. Milivojevic to listen a little bit. Serbia is not in a situation today, it is not in such a state that it can be three or more months without the government. It is therefore important to think about changing the Constitution to shorten these deadlines, to get the government in as short a time as possible so that it can solve the problems that exist. Mr. Todorovic's amendment to article 18 made the same sense, to arrange a way of proposing the mandate, precisely by law, and to shorten the deadlines for the procedure, not to remain in the president's jurisdiction indefinitely until the last 90th day, and then on the last day, we wait whether Solana will remember, decide and break into Serbia's government. And if he's already doing it, let's cut his time short, so let him do it in 30 days, if he can, and if he doesn't, then we'll make the government ourselves or go to new elections. In the second part of his amendment, Mr Mirovic predicted that a new position 2 was added after Article 1 which reads: "At the same time with the disbanding of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic is calling new elections for the National Assembly." That's logical, and the proposer should've accepted it. It is logical for the President of the Republic to call new elections as soon as the National Assembly disbands, but it must stand in law, not to remain at some free and arbitrary interpretation of the President of the Republic. With the apology of the MPs present, I would step away from the agenda and, given that Mr Markovic is present here, and that what I'm going to talk about and on about him, I would draw your attention to a situation that we have here today in Belgrade. For four full days, a Belgrade citizen has been strikein' hunger before the Court of Justice. It's a difficult decision in this time, these days when temperatures are below zero. It is about a certain Mr. Milan Tesic of Jacob, who has been strikein' for four full days to seek justice for ten years. What's this about? Mr Tesic was employed, probably today, in the PKK, or former company "July 7th" (I think that's what it was called) in Surcin. In 1998, a flat in the company was shared from the Solidarity Fund. He was supposed to get an apartment then because he was first on the ranking list. However, the company's housing commission has made some irregularities in the distribution, so the president of the commission has been held responsible for it, and the situation, while the commission has been guessing about it and trying to do so, was used by the company's then director, Mr. Milos Bulgaria and the apartment unlawfully assigned to an employee in the company. This is important because Mr. Milos Bulgaria is today the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, if I have good information, and according to some allegations from public information funds and a close associate or friend of Mr. Milan Markovic, the current Minister of State Administration. It is also important to say that Mr. Markovic, when all this was happening, was the chairman of the board of directors of this company and that is why it is important to hear this here and to know. Namely, after the trial was initiated, the municipal first-degree court decided to annul the commission's decision, the district court confirmed the decision and the Supreme Court confirmed it. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. In fact, the commission, which was re-formed in 2002, made the same failure, so Mr Tesic again set out to ban justice through court and again the first-degree court made the same decision to annul the commission's solution, but then, in a magical manner, the District Court changed that decision. And that's why Mr. Tesic now strikes hunger. Of course, and that's an argument more, the company did not complain about the decision of the first-degree court, but, I said, in a magical way, the second-degree body, the District Court, changed the decision of the first-degree court. I call upon the authorities, above all, the minister of justice, to respond to this. Four days and nights standing or sitting outside at these temperatures is terrible in itself. Someone in this country has to react to cases like this, but to react immediately, not to wait for a different, unwanted outcome. Similarly, it happens to other people, who no longer have the means to exercise their rights, so they decide on such difficult steps. It is similar with these people from Prokupje, who have been strikein various ways for months, and with many others in the state of Serbia. All this is about the situation and the state of Serbia. I ask Mr. Markovic, who is present here, and I ask the minister of justice to do everything possible for this man to stop the hunger strike as soon as possible, to try to see what it is in the Belgrade District Court. I visited a man today. There was also a lawyer on the other side, who told me that he had left the process because he understood what it was about. This again speaks enough of the situation in this case, in this dispute, and of the situation in Serbia's judiciary in general. Of course, with the exception of those honorable judges, who do their job fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12289	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Dejan Mirovic? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think there are a lot of pearls in this bill's proposal, but this member and reason deserve special attention. I'd really be extremely in the mood to hear your opinion and your attitude about this member and your reasoning because, whether you want it or not, this law is going to your soul and I'm guessing you're not ready to defend everything and everyone because there's no reason. Some things have to be accepted, first of all because they're common sense, because as proposed in the article, it's really pointless. I've put a lot of work into it, and I can also accept that I'm not really able to understand it the best way, so I'd like you to explain it anyway. Article 23 ‘Relations of the President of the Republic with other national authorities’. Here's how brilliantly shaped it is. Very precise. It leaves no doubt about the functioning of the President of the Republic with other state bodies. He says, "The relations of the President of the Republic with other state authorities are based on co-operation and communication, in accordance with the Constitution, law and other... '". This is important, 'cooperation and communication'. It's just amazing. Mr. Milorad Buhha asked for this 'co-operation and intelligence' to be erased, completely logically. The President of the Republic is working with other state authorities under the Constitution and the law, and nothing more, aman. First of all, you are aware of how many presidents, both in our country and in other countries, are not working with other state bodies at all, let's say, with the government, but there are extremely big problems in this co-operation, even up to almost open hostilities or crackdowns through public information funds. Just to remind you of the period when SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica was and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic. How much trouble was there? What kind of cooperation? There were such problems, such enmity, that at one point we came to a situation where we feared whether there would be a shootout between the police and the military. The military was held by Vojislav Kostunica, police were held by Zoran Djindjic. Remember, for example, in Israel recently there was a problem with their president over an affair. He's even been prosecuted. What kind of cooperation and intelligence could there have been? Remember, that's the example you had in the Czech Republic. Remember America, your beacon of democracy, freedom. Remember their president and problems, not with the government, they have a presidential system, but with Congress, because of an affair with Monica Levinski. Remember? And imagine now this explanation you've given, Mr. Minister. He says, "Amendment is not accepted. The draft law lays down the principle of co-operation and communication as one of the basic principles necessary for the proper operation of state authorities.' Please, Mr. Minister, how could you give such an explanation? This is so incontinent. I understand that you are for peace, there have been some who have been for peace before, but please, this kind of explanation, which is why the amendment is being rejected, I almost didn't get a chance to read, and I've been in the Serbian Parliament for a long time. These are new aspects? I agree that you in your coalition are expanding these aspects, but I must admit that they may be expanded, deepened, and as far as the Serbian Parliament is concerned, I really think this is crossing all possible boundaries. Believe that for a while, someone will deal with this, and you'll really serve as a mockery, completely justified, because this really doesn't make sense. This is how you underestimate the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs – this is not even the reason you gave students up to the fourth grade of an eight-year-old school. How does the president of the country work? Is that the reason? Is that the basic principle? Or maybe it's from some of the old days? "Nothing should surprise us" and all that was related to civil defense or any other service. Mr. Minister, I think you have more time to accept this amendment from the MPs of the SRS and put an ad act on such an unambiguous explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12291	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12292	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 225. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, says, "The People's MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the Members of Parliament." Many MPs told me that, in order to perform their duties, they needed to know what the books of Doctor Vojislav Seselj's professors were called, and he published 103 books. Here, I will now, pursuant to Article 225(1), meet the MPs from these titles: "Requesting Time", "Hajka na jeretika", "Fenomenology of Balkan Depotism", "Velejstavni proces", "Narkomanija Vuk manitoga", "Politika as a Challenge of Conscious", "Milan Panić must fall", "On the International Scene", "Commanding with the Seven Force", "The People's Party", "The Spodnaklopa", "The Change of the Will of the People", "Policy of the Chetnic Duke", "Pali, "The Lights, Dedinamers", "The Red tyrants of the Dedinj", "The Serbian Army", "The Numanamanamanamanamanatak", "Granjskamovci", "Granjskamovljamovci", "Grož" "Grož" "Granjka" "Grož" "Grož" "Grož" "Granjkamovljak" "Grož" "Grož" "Grož" "Grož" "Grankamanjak" "Grož" "Grož"", "Gromanja" "S", "S", "Gromanjamanjamanjamanjamanjamanjamak", "S", "S", "S", "S", "S", "S" "Gromanjamanjamanjak" "S" "S" "S" "S" "S", "S" "S" "S" "Grkamanjamanjamanjamanjamnamanjamak, "S"", "S"", "S"", "S"", "S"", "Pomanjamanjamanjamnamnamnamnamnamovnamovnamovnamovnamovnamovnam" "S" "S" "S" "S" "S" "S" "Grkam" "Grvam" "S" "S" "S" "Grkam" "S"", "S"", "G Mr. Albianic, I answer again by word, by the same member of the Rules of Procedure, and I continue. (President: here you go. Thank you. So I read 53. "Pocepana Hague Inquisitors", "In the jaws of the whore Del Ponte", "Genocid Israeli diplomat Teodor Meron", "Djavol's apprentice of the criminal Roman Pope Jovan Pavle II", "Vashington sex maniac Bill Clinton", "Haško Bayram Pig", "Lying Haviar Najs", "The Witness of the Defence of Slobodan Milosevic in the Hague Process", "English gay ferdak Tony Blair", "Crime and War Criminal Javier Solana", "Pomerigal Antipopevac Jacques Širak", "Hitler's most faithful followers Helmet"Halmut Žaljikovića Žaljikostivić (Hrživić), "Grožanski Žalič), "Grožanski Žaljik", "Grožaljik", "Grožalić"Vražanskih"Vulić, "Količ", "Količa "Količanskih"Polić, "Količ", "Kolskihite"Vulkanjkomović, "Gović, "Kalić"Halić, "Gljiković, Santaniživić"V Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, you can buy all these books at the headquarters of the Serbian Radical Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12293	Don't do that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12294	... Or we can give them to you at the headquarters of the SRS in Zemun, and if you go to our municipal committees, they'll give you these books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12295	Don't do that, please. We'll give you a notice. We'll be working till 20.55 hours, so far we've got a television feed, neat. Since no one's answering Article 23 anymore, we're moving on to the amendment... Okay, the amendment, Milorad Buhe, is being reported by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12296	Indeed, the position of Article 23 is meaningless. Read the entire sentence carefully, take out the inserted sentences and try to find a meaning. What did the legislator want with such a pointless provision? In order for those who did not have the bill in their hands to understand what it was about, the provision reads: "The relations of the President of the Republic with other state bodies are based on co-operation and communication, in accordance with the Constitution, law and other regulations and take place without delay when it requires the smooth exercise of the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic". Who thought to write a sentence like this? The relations of the President of the Republic with other state bodies are therefore based on communication and co-operation. How can relationships be based on intelligence? They can start by notifying, they can finish by notifying, but – are based on intelligence? Will someone please inform the President of the Republic that relations have begun? Then he says relations will take place without delay. What did you mean by that? Finally, is there any criminal provision if it relates between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, any relation that you had in mind, does not take place without delay or does not take place in co-operation and communication? And why would the President of the Republic be obliged to have relations with the Prime Minister without delay? Maybe it takes him a while to figure out what kind of relationship he's gonna have with him. Next, why would there be any intelligence? What exactly does this provision define? They're dealing with the President of the Republic with whom? With other state authorities. Do you know how many other state bodies there are? Will he inform them all? Will he have sex with all of them without delay? What is it that the President of the Republic is throwing out with this law? Will it hurt the Constitution if there is no co-operation with other state authorities without delay, according to the notification system? Will the President of the Republic be relieved when two-thirds of the MPs in the National Assembly do not like it, and they always have the Constitutional Court with them? And how will you get the President of the Republic to carry out such a vague provision? Let's say that the relations of other state authorities with the president will take place smoothly. But you're forcing the president to work with other state authorities with uninterrupted co-operation that will take place under the notification system. This was written by someone from the DSS, since you'll never have a president of the Republic, obviously. We who prepare for this function would really like to know what you're asking us to do, to tell you whether we can meet your conditions or not. No one can make the President of the Republic cooperate with any way he can. If it's under the notification and alert system, will his phone conversations be recognised as a means of co-operation? Will he have to send mail to the courier? Will it be recognized as the date when he delivered some notice to another state authority in the mail? Where are the deadlines to inform another state authority about what is the basis of their co-operation? You've piled 27 members into a pointless bill. No one will be bound by this law, not even by the President of the Republic. You should have a little more respect for who Serbian citizens will choose most. To be proud of the law on which his function is regulated, on whom he is elected, on whom he is resolved, on whom, in collaboration with other state bodies, he leads the country. You know he represents Serbia in the country and abroad, you know he commands the military, in accordance with the law. That's what you should have said here - commanding the Army according to that and that principle, through it and that form your cabinet. What have you determined here about the President of the Republic? Indeed nothing, except that, in these late night hours, in front of very few MPs, and you are not at all interested in this law, we explain a bill that has no one to defend. Of course, we will be serious about the role of the President of the Republic, but we have no obligation, nor does morals allow us to be serious about this bill. I know that a large part of the government would never stand behind this bill, but the other part, which rules Serbia and doesn't care, seems to be quite in his will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12297	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment to Article 23? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Zvonimir Stević. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go, Mr. Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 of the law on the President of the State, chapter four, which I think is very important. For the sake of the public, I would like to read the first position: ''Relations of the President of the Republic with other state bodies are based on co-operation and communication, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations and take place without delay when it requires the smooth exercise of the powers of the President of the Republic. In Article 23, point 1 of the word "co-operation and communication" is replaced by the words "debt and rights". They cannot relate to the President of the Republic with other state bodies primarily on co-operation, because they are not international NGOs, but state bodies that have to function and carry out their duties, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The President of the Republic and the Government cannot be referred to, for example, by the President of the Republic and by the Government. in their mood to cooperate or not. It is about the highest state bodies, which represent the country and the people and decide on the fate of the state, so that it must be a crucial constitutional and legal obligation, not a desire to co-operate. The answer I have received is that this amendment is not accepted, at the very least, funny. He says, "Amendment is not accepted. The draft law lays down the principle of co-operation and communication as one of the basic principles necessary for the proper operation of state authorities.' I'd like the Minister of State and Local Self-Government to tell me what the principles of co-operation and communication are. Is this co-operation between the state authorities dependent on someone's mercy or mercy, on someone's will or on trouble? Is that co-operation by the state authorities dependent on someone's wish? Since the long-standing destabilisation of the Serbian state is under way, I ask you how will the Ministry of Defence and the President of the Republic co-operate? Will they be informed and co-operated or do they have a constitutional and legal obligation to protect territorial integrity and sovereignty? What is the co-operation with the Ministry of Interior when it comes to public order in the territory of the Serbian state? The debate has shown, in principle and in particular, that this is a law written for a president. You, Mr. Minister, are very wise and very well defending party positions and the law is written in that direction. More than half of this legislative proposal deals with what will happen to the former president. What will happen to the former president - you have shown how much you respect the law. Although there was a law on the former president, you, when you came to power, did not respect the law but simply, by law, passed the UN tribunal. I want to tell you, for the sake of the public, that Slobodan Milosevic has shown what the president of the Serbian state should be, and your president – such as should not be the president of the Serbian state. The SPS will not support the draft law on the President of the Republic. We believe that law should be passed, but that it should regulate the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, and this bill does not. I therefore believe that, in order to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state, MPs should accept the amendment that I have proposed on the basis of the rights and responsibilities of the state of Serbia. Minister, you're not listening. We had a conversation in the Socialist Party about municipal councils and local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. A moment ago, after my presentation here, you went out for a pay phone and, inappropriately for a minister of state and local self-government, you said: I conveyed it to the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. It is your constitutional obligation to, in accordance with your powers, allow the functioning of local self-government in the entire territory of the Serbian state, in all municipalities. They're your local coordinators you invented in 2000. Instead of collective organs, in-house organs are at work. There are certain abuses, which is not controversial. We are, as the Socialist Party, and then, and now we propose, because of the circumstances that arise, because of the inability to conduct the elections, that it is time to introduce the municipal council. We will see that in the laws on local self-government and territorial organisation, you will arrange for a municipal council to be established, which, because of the inability to conduct elections, will function as local self-government in the area of Kosovo and Metohija until conditions are obtained. It is not in the power of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, it is in your jurisdiction. We'll see, when there are laws on local self-government and territorial organization, how it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12299	Minister, Mr. Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12300	Mr. Stevic, I don't know why you're discussing this. The ministry law, Article 23, established the authorities of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. When the Ministry Act was passed, a new ministry called the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija was established. The head of the ministry is Mr Samardzic. According to the Ministry Act, the ministry has been directly placed in charge of local self-government issues in Kosovo and Metohija. I can't believe you don't know that. The easiest thing to do is to charge someone so casually. How can you say here that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are responsible for the local self-government of Kosovo and Metohija, when there is a Law on the Ministry, which you must know as a MP, in which it clearly states that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija? I've told you nicely, I've respected all your arguments, and I've agreed with you, I've suggested to Mr Samardzic all of it. I don't know how you can charge me now, in any way imputing any kind of responsibility to a ministry that's not in charge of that matter. It would be the same if you would impute any other question from the work of the State Administration Authority here and which is not mentioned in Article 23. The Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12301	It's all right. Just no bile, Mr. Minister. Replica, People's MPplatmir Stević, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, you're wrong. I didn't accuse you, but I want to tell you with facts, arguments, as Minister of State and Local Self-Government, what you should be doing. Is this proof of the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry and state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija? This is linked to what kind of cooperation we were talking about earlier. So there's no cooperation here but you're divided, you're block divided. This means, my concern, move on to another. If we formed the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, what does that mean? Now it's the government for Kosovo and Metohija? According to you, as you interpret it, means health and education and public enterprises and infrastructures, etc., all to be loaded on the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. I speak in principle, given that I am a lawyer by profession, I worked in local self-government – not for these eight years the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government, as it was called, has seriously approached this problem. We talked. The ministry for Kosovo and Metohija talks, the state secretary talks, the Co-ordination Centre talks, negotiates -- there is no solution. And we agreed, you accepted when we had a meeting. I think it's in the jurisdiction of the State Department and local self-government. Who runs the municipal council? The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija can't. You say - according to the law. And I would like to remind you, you and the citizens, in the preamble to the Constitution, it is said: "Departing from the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, as well as from the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and external political relations. This implies – sit down, gentlemen of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, and that the issue of local self-government, the co-ordinator of municipal councils, the elections, the elections are defined in the interests of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12303	Is anyone else answering for a word on the amendment of Ambassador Zvonimir Stevic? No, I don't. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26, which reads: "The Secretary-General is in charge of the exercise of the right of the President of the Republic, the spouse of the President of the Republic and the former President of the Republic." I would just quote Article 2(2), which is very comprehensive and which says, "The Secretary-General does the jobs that are related to the exercise of the right of the President of the Republic to pay and other labour rights, the right of the spouse of the President of the Republic and the right of the former President of the Republic to pay, to receive a monthly allowance, as it ceases his right to pay, as well as the right to receive a special monthly fee." It's still missing that this member is regulated when the president wakes up, when he's showering, etc. This amendment lays down more precisely the legal standard relating to the affairs of the Secretary-General relating to the exercise of the right of the President of the Republic, or the former President of the Republic. The bill itself, including this member, is already preparing the ground for the former Serbian president. New benefits are being introduced, providing a completely different status for the former president, which so far has not been a legal obligation. Their position is not just about this article 26. It's a bill, but essentially, it's harder towards the same goal. In addition to the Secretariat-General, part of the tasks related to the function of the President of the Republic are carried out by the head of the Office and the advisers. When the head of the cabinet is mentioned, I remember immediately, and probably you, the honourable MPs, the One Without Kolesar, though then chief of cabinets of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and a miracle that Boris Tadic did not hire him as his head of the Cabin, since man has great experience in the field of machinations, robberies, such as cementers, ironworks, shipyards, etc. The draft law sets out a broad spectrum of the rights of the President of the Republic, as well as the rights of the former President of the Republic, their spouses, etc. Thus, in Article 26(2), they could place even all the details and details related to the president and which are the responsibilities of the Secretary-General, for example from going to sports events and games (and better not to go there), and the right to visit concert halls. This law has made an effort to improve the situation and status of the former President of the Republic. Through many members of the law, including through this article 26, this is clearly observed. I don't know if it'll retroactively reflect, though, but for the former presidents, it's too late. Slobodan Milosevic, as former president of the Republic, was kidnapped by state authorities and delivered to The Hague and killed there. Milan Milutinovic travelled, as it is said, in Kinsas, under the threat of being taken away with a bag over his head. I don't know if that's exactly how the law applies to the former presidents, but apparently the law didn't apply to some. I'm thinking of what I'm going to say, baggerists, after the sherpa revolution of October 5, 2000. The question now is how will the president perform his duty, given such privileges as are meant to make the president function. Do not let the shame that Boris Tadic inflicted on the Serbian people happen again by apologizing to Mesic, I guess that there are still some Serbs left in Croatia, not all displaced or killed. Then, Potocari, Srebrenica, and Bratunac and Skelane forgot. There, however, he sent an adviser who, poorly, lost himself to fear because of the disdain of Serbs gathered on the parade of three thousand masculine Serbs, to the very name Boris Tadic. What Boris Tadic has done so often is the fact that he has just turned his secretary-general into a team that followed him, not in the duties of the president, but in a pre-election campaign, including advisers and the phantom National Office, which is all but folk. When Boris Tadic can violate some basic ethical norms, first of all, I mean that, as president of Serbia, he continues to serve as party president, the Democratic Party, what would not his associates do? But as you took care of future former President Boris Tadic, to legally prepare him for the thick shade, it only suggests that you are already preparing to suffer defeat from the Serbian Radical Party in the upcoming presidential elections. As for employees of the General Secretariat, we already know the democratic practice - wives of former officials, wives of current officials, brothers, uncles, godfathers, by cousin, plus the party line, such as the Gilas couple and not to mention any names... When you were already writing this item 2, in such an expanded edition, you could, in addition to the many lists, indicate that the former president cannot, for example, be arrested for being wanted by someone outside the state of Serbia. Well, let's say he can't be extradited to a foreign country, etc. Let's keep that letter in the law. It is never known whether some people, like those who came after October 5th, will do what they did as soon as Carla del Ponte's ear is turned. I hope this amendment will be accepted in voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12305	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it will be a minor shame if you accept this amendment and avoid this listing in the position of Article 26(2), rather than to remain in Article 26, in particular Article 2, which lists certain obligations of the General Secretariat, e.g. According to the former president, who are only part of what, according to your bill, is in the later articles, in the article. 39th and 40th, the Secretary General is required to work for the former president. So, in Article 26, you stated that the Secretary-General's work concerning the right of the former President of the Republic to pay and to receive a monthly payment after he has ceased his right to pay and thereby exhausted the obligations of the General Secretariat towards the former President of the Republic. And in Article 39(4), it states that an adviser and a secretary in the former president's office is provided by the General Secretariat. Well, then, in article 40, it says that the Office's work is provided by the Secretary-General, and that he's an asset-expending commander, the Secretary-General. This means that the General Secretariat's obligations towards the former president are not only limited to his salary right and to the compensation for the termination of his salary rights, but to the whole function of the 'ex-president of Serbia', the whole function. So the General Secretariat is doing a lot of work for the former president from the president's diapazon office. He provides it both professionally and technically. When you wrote that the General Secretariat is doing professional and technical work for the president, he does the same for the former president. And it was much more important for you to write here than for your ex-president's wife to have any salary or compensation. That's why I don't think the law was done properly and that we, for a short period of time, tried to fix it with amendments. Maybe we didn't make it to the end. But if the government wanted to co-operate, so that part of it had accepted, and added to its own amendments an even better solution, I think we'd have a good law. I'm sure we'll go to a presidential election with a very strict and bad law on the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-29-0.u12307	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word on the amendment of MP Radisa Ilic? No, I don't. Thank you. We have reached an amendment to Article 27, which was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. We'll continue work in the morning, 10:00 p.m. Thank you very much.
