ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP Radovan Radovanovic has the word, and let the MP Bojan Milovanovic be prepared. National MP Radovan Radovanovic is not here. The People's Messenger Bojan Milovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nikola Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10570	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia has tried in the right way to explain what is obviously, when making this list of debaters for the session, in principle -- who is for, who is against, remains unarranged. What is very important to stress, the proposal for an asylum law is one of the laws that represents, so to speak, the introduction to what is called the EU and the SAA, in principle, has no objections, will even make a constructive contribution to contribute to better this law through amendments. What is interesting, the SPS cannot in any way separate the proposal for an asylum law on the subject, essentially of this important matter, from what is reality today in Serbia, and these are refugees and internally displaced persons. Perhaps this term "internally displaced persons" is too general; all those people who had the opportunity to face a major problem at the level of local self-government saw that in no case were internally displaced persons, but in the harshest way, in the 21st century, banished from their hearths, and the conditions in which they live today on the territory of Serbia are neither equal nor Middle Ages, that I am not talking about the 21st century. In short, I will look back at the basic things that local self-government is up to today, because I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UNHCR in no way attach importance to these people, so this is one mild analysis or essential analysis of these problems, what happened to the refugees from the space of the former republics of the SFRY and what today is the fate of the internally displaced persons. I will remind that UNHCR has two basic and essential tasks in this area, which are: firstly, the first task is the return and second task, also significant and important, is the attempt to integrate refugees and internally displaced persons into the economic, political and certainly social system of the Republic of Serbia at this time. As far as the analysis is concerned, I'm just going to specify the data, to be honest, which may not be relevant, in some part are different from our data, but let that be the data. If they are analyzed a little deeper, it will be seen that data on the refugees today in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the return of the refugees far exceeds what essentially happened to internally displaced persons. So since 1996, since the UNHCR implemented the return project, the number of 600,000-700,000 refugees has managed to settle into some 90,000 refugees from BiH and the Republic of Croatia. If what happened to internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija is observed, the results are devastating. Since 1999, barely 1% of Serbian lives have managed to return to the present day under a project called integration into the Serbian state system in no way gives the country the right picture and attitude to everything that has happened. I'll remind you that one activity called the shut down of collective centres and the integration into life is just an attempt on paper. However, the fate of these people in the environments in which they live today is extremely difficult, so local self-governments, which worry today about being exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, face many problems. First of all, these problems are being looked at in finding opportunities to integrate properly. It's a big obligation, to secure work, to take care of health care, to ensure schooling. I must say that, in addition to everything called the government's obligation, local self-government at this point gives much more importance to it than is financially supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have no doubt that by proposing this draft asylum law, as we always do when it comes to these pro-European laws, the proposer has achieved the highest standards, so that through amendments we will try to improve this law even further. This makes it clear to the SPS that it is much more important that we are part of the parliamentary debates, and much more resources, spent on integration and the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, and we would achieve more significant results. Just a few notes, since I wanted to initiate one of these discussions in the Assembly about our essential problems; I want to say what it would be possible to change in this asylum law. In particular, as regards the principle of confidentiality, the SPS may suggest a few things. Article 18 says the data on an asylum-seeking person during the asylum process is an official secret. The issue of this official secret is raised; firstly, who are authorized persons, this must be clearly defined by decisions and by law and, which is also significant, the way in which such data is kept, until what time, in which way. Because the laws in this area in Europe point to one thing – it is very important, because it is a very important issue, specifically about the fate of these asylum seekers, certain data after a certain deadline and destroy. Another note: Article 21 speaks about the asylum centre, and only the functioning and operation of the asylum centre implies certain material costs that are exclusively related to budgetary spending. I would like to remind you that asylum seekers can present their particular problems in order of those who cannot live in these asylum centres tomorrow, theoretically considered. This is specifically about sick persons, old faces or faces who have had problems with human trafficking, etc. This implies that such a law should certainly provide for and the possibility of requiring such persons who, according to their own destiny and demand, must have accommodation in some other space. In any case, it also potentials this second moment that is important for Serbia, which is the budget and budget that should tomorrow be adequately put behind this. I remind you once again, the Socialist Party of Serbia will in no way underestimate this important issue, but although it will constructively criticise such things, it will make it clear that this high home and this assembly cannot give priority to the urgent process of these pro-European laws, and that in this case, the fate and life of their internally displaced persons and refugees succeeds and how they forget these years. At the very end, since I have no more time to discuss, to remind you, today these data on the return of internally displaced persons from the area of Kosovo and Metohija are more a dead letter on paper than one fate dealt with by both UNHCR representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind you that over 65 years of age in the area of Kosovo and Metohija today have reached the possibility of a 45-euro pension, so that situations occur that individual internally displaced people are fictitiously checking out of Serbia's territory and reporting in Kosovo and Metohija to ensure these small material duties. In order not to represent a false picture of the return of Serbs over the past few years, I remind you that the government should have a little more hearing and at least this most modest material giving to these people would enable and provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10571	The People's Messenger, Nikola Lazic, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Milorad Boah.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10572	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity to begin by congratulating the glory of the Holy Witch Cosma and Damian to all the doctors and others who celebrate this glory. Certainly, the debate on this law is very important because this way, in domestic legislation, standards are built in which asylum issues are regulated, and this is within the broader context of the regulation of the entire area of migration management policy. The fact is that asylum issues in Serbia were not resolved by a special law, but by certain provisions of the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners, which is why we are currently the only country in the region. In fact, the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Asylum of the previous state of Serbia-Montenegro meant that special legal solutions regulate the procedure, authorities, as well as the scope of the rights given to asylum seekers. By adopting the proposed law, our legislation agrees with the Constitution of Serbia, as well as with a number of international acts, such as the Universal Declaration on Human Rights of the United Nations, the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating procedures, the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees, the Rights of the Child, as well as other European and United Nations conventions. Our country, Serbia, as a country that bears witness to its values and its tradition in much of its history, and today, attaches high importance to respect and care for human rights, which is also witnessed by the fact that almost one third of Serbia's modern constitution is dedicated to human rights, has often been a haven and shelter to exiles and endangered ones. The right to shelter is also discussed by a member of the 57th current Serbian Constitution. Also, as reforms are progressing in our country, as well as European integration, Serbia will be increasingly attractive to potential asylum seekers in the future. It should be borne in mind that the term refugee, for which mass is bound, and asylum, which is mostly individual, is from case to case represented by two different categories, although very often overlap. In previous years, Serbia-Montenegro was among the first of its citizens to seek asylum in EU countries, most of whom were registered as asylum seekers from Kosovo and Metohija. As an illustration, the German federal refugee migration office announced during 2005, that out of 5.222 asylum seekers from our area, 39.5% are Roma, 37.5% Albanians and slightly more than 1% are Serbs. It is interesting to compare this with the recent case of the seven-member Kosovo-Albanian Zogaj family, which was denied the possibility of asylum by the Austrian authorities, because the UN mission in the province estimated that they came to Frankenburg for better living conditions, not because of politics, according to their qualifications. Generally, the number of asylum seekers in the European Union is falling, mainly because of a more restrictive asylum policy in those countries. The proposed law, which we are still discussing today, has been looking for a model that will bring the need to comply with universal standards with the practically proven solutions in this area. Therefore, it is necessary to define both the procedure, and the deadlines and criteria for receiving asylum, as well as the standard for the treatment of asylum seekers, the way in which people who will directly deal with this problem, etc. In practice, due to the absence of adequate legislation, the asylum issue dealt with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and those to whom this status would be recognised so far had no social or economic rights, so far, were completely unintegrated in the legal system and the structure of society. The task of this law is to treat this issue in a human way, to enable integration, protection, the right to family integration, education and stay truly at risk, and to prevent abuse of the right to asylum, especially economically, especially at times when our country comes to the Schengen list and when reforms give even more significant results. Although the issue can be seen in the context of commitments undertaken by membership in the Council of Europe, as well as Eurointegration, it is important to note that only 2010 is planned for asylum policy to be brought into line. In fact, there is a very loud debate in the European Union, given that not all members of the European Union suffer the same pressure from potential asylum seekers. The illustrations work, in Sweden from the 1970s until today over 100,000 rights to asylum are granted, only from Iraq. The application of the asylum law also addresses the issue of temporary protection of persons in the event of a mass inflow of refugees, of course, in line with state and state decisions. In other words, when each case is not individually considered and processed because of the number or waves of the refugees, the Government is making a decision on the measures of temporary protection, i.e. on their stay in our territory, taking care of the capacities and interests of the state, as well as, of course, on the humanitarian aspect, because this issue is a matter of respect for human rights. What is significant is that it provides a special administrative procedure for the recognition of refugee status adapted to the special position of asylum seekers, as well as the need for a state to protect itself from mass abuse of asylum rights. Three bodies will participate in the asylum procedure: the asylum office, the first-degree procedure conducted by specially educated officials of the Ministry of the Interior, the asylum commission, which represents an independent professional body that is educated by the government and conducted by the second-degree procedure, as well as the asylum centre, which is part of the Commissioner for Refugees and which provides essential needs such as nutrition, housing, etc. This is the first step, which should be followed by accompanying institutions, adequate infrastructure, professional services, education, etc., so that, while all of this is being ensured, the law will be implemented from April next year. This law will enable the principle of subsidiarity protection, which is in line with the human society norms to which we seek, and the best European and world practice of this protection system will be incorporated into the law. The law is good and the DSS parliamentary group will certainly support it. In the end, I would quote the famous French writer and Nobel laureate Andre Jews, who said – as long as we live among people, we cultivate humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10573	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the matter we're talking about today has been regulated by a dozen international conventions concerning asylum seekers and refugees. In our legal system we have three laws that regulate this area: one from 1980, which is the Law on residence and movement of foreigners, then we have the Law on Refugees from 1992, and the Third is the Law on Asylum from 2005. The legislator has been defined as a proposing for the innovation of this Asylum Act, which will cover how the category of persons we can call asylum seekers, as well as the refugee population, which includes and is exiled, I mean, above all, the exiles from Kosovo and Metohija. What is important in this proposal, I think the bill promoter has under-developed the asylum category. European legislation, for example, and Slovenia's legislation knows several categories. Older European legislation and more recently, it knows several categories of asylum seekers. It would be good if the draft law had been incorporated into the law of a specific category of asylum seekers that appear in practice. In European legislation, they distinguish: a political asylumist, an economic asylumist, an asylum man who comes for humanitarian reasons and an asylum man who comes for social reasons. It may not matter to us at this point whether or not to distinguish these categories, but in three or five or more years it would be very important to distinguish asylum seekers by these categories that I mentioned. What is important to point out for the asylum law itself, is that the promoter entered the definition of asylum as a category, asylum seekers as a potential person to receive asylum in the country and define refugees. However, the definition of refugees is given in the Refugees Act. I will now read the definition of the 1992 Refugees Act; it mentions the category of Serbs and other ethnicities, which are due to the persecution of Croatian authorities or authorities in other republics, the threat of genocide, as well as persecution, discrimination and so on... This 1992 definition corresponded to the time when this law was passed. However, the legislator of this law offers us another definition of refugees, where he says: "The refugee is a person who, because of the legitimate fear of persecution for his race, half, tongue, religion, nationality or belonging to a group or because of his political beliefs, is not in a state of his origin and is unable or because of that fear does not want to be put under the protection of that state, as well as a stateless person who is outside the country of his previous permanent residence and who cannot or because of that fear does not want to return to that country. "So in the legal system, if we adopt this bill, we will have two definitions of refugees. In the transitional and final provisions, as a rule, the Proposer is defined for the erasure of certain legal rules that define certain occurrences or situations for certain members, however, in the final and transitional provisions of this law, we do not find any erasure of the Refugees Act. I think it's a legal failure, which deserves some attention. I will also propose in the amendments that a certain correction be made, because we cannot have one and the same concept defined in two different ways in the legal system. On the other hand, that I am right to speak and the International Convention on the Status of Refugees of 1951, which gives me the right, and I think that the legislator had to enter into the definition of this concept under the provisions of the International Convention on Refugee Status, because it is more credible. When we talk about asylum seekers and refugees, we must start from the unfortunate 1990s when more than a million refugees came to the premises of Serbia from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, BiH, and later from Kosovo and Metohija. The fate of the Serbian people has been black since the 1990s. Unfortunately, Serbia's persecution of living in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia continues today. The situation is similar in both Kosovo and Metohija. I will be here with several illustrative examples, through the number of refugees, to show which accident came upon the Serb people who left their hearths and sought the opportunity to survive in the Republic of Serbia. So in 1992, about 150,000 refugees reported, in 1996, about 650,000, in 1998, 715,000, and that is the largest number of refugees registered in the Commissioner for Refugees and MUP, in 2001 450,000, in 2005 107.000, in 2007 97,000. So the current state is about 97,000. However, when I say about 2005 and 2007, that it moves around 100,000, we must say that this number is far higher. Refugees cannot return to Croatia. The Ustasha regime does not allow refugees to return. We can also see that from the reports of the Refugee Commissioner, we can see from various studies done by certain organizations, associations of the Krajisniks who follow it. We in the government of Republika Srpska have accurate indications of how many refugees have really returned to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Only about 55,000 have returned, and even of that 10,000 does not live constantly in Croatia, meaning 45,000 returned to Croatia; more than 15,000 people have already died in Croatia. So, between 500,000 and 800,000 Serbs were expelled from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, they returned 55,000, they really lived 45,000, and since 1997 and 1998, when an intense return was made, but mostly nursing households that could not live in these areas, since adults and lived in those parts could not die here, go back there and there die, so over 15,000 of those people who fled there and they went to the other world. The fate of that people is evil. The government of Republika Srpska, through an appeal addressed to the international community, the current government, NGOs, is seeking, insisting on helping this people. More than 450,000 people from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia came here, without property, without perspective. They've had 10 or 12 years. Those who return there experience great inconveniences; they are often murders, bomb-throwing, intimidation, harassment and so forth. This is the continuation of the genocide experienced by that people. When we talk about why the evasive population does not return to Croatia, we must say that it is because of the fear of killings and what I was talking about, and of the secret lists. All those who are now 40 or 50 years old, who participated in armed conflicts, are afraid to go there because we have been informed daily by means of information that one has been arrested today... Yesterday, or a few days ago, we could see that a Serb, several days ago in Germany, was arrested on the crossing between the Canadian and American borders and so on. The same thing awaits us in Croatia when the Serbs return: they leave once, for the second time, are arrested, detained, harassed, chicanated, imprisoned and so on, and there is no return. It is a responsibility, first of all, of this country, because it has signed more bilateral agreements with the Republic of Croatia and nothing seems to be done by these bilateral agreements on both sides. I will mention several agreements concerning not only the regulation of status but also property, social and other issues. This is the 1996 Treaty on the Normalisation of Relations, signed by the then SRJ and the Republic of Croatia, and I will read you Article 7. He says, "Foreign Contracting Parties will ensure full security for refugees and displaced persons who return. Foreign Contracting Parties will assist those persons in providing the necessary conditions for a normal and safe life. Foreign Contracting Parties will prescribe general amnesty for all acts done in connection with armed conflicts, except for the most serious violations of humanitarian law that have the character of war crimes." Croatia passed the Law of Forgiveness, or Amnesty, but it does not adhere to it. On the lists of Croatian authorities, secret and public, there are over 30,000 or 40,000 Krajisniks. It is a threat to security, not only the safety of the Krajisnik Serbs, for the general security of the Serb people who were in these areas, who were expelled. Here tells us this provision – foreign parties will ensure a safe and secure return. There's no safe return. Who won't let that happen? It does not allow Croatian power. Who's responsible? A Serbian government is responsible, which does not allow the return and enforcement of this agreement, which insists that a return be made in normal and safe conditions. On the other hand, the same provision of Article 7 says: "Foreign Contracting Parties will provide conditions for the safe and free return of refugees and displaced persons to their residences or to other places that they freely choose. Foreign Contracting Parties shall ensure that those persons are returned to their property, i.e. fair compensation. "There is no safe return, there is no compensation, the restoration of houses that were burned during the known military-security activities of the Croatian army "Blash" and "Storm"; and a month later there were arson in Krajina, just so that Serbs would not return. What just fee for Serbs Krajisniki to discuss? Do we also have one dinar of fair compensation set aside for the burned, destroyed, devastated and stolen Serbian property, mobile and immobilized? Not a single dime. The Croatian government is doing nothing to bring this agreement to life. We have an agreement on social issues that regulates the issue of pensions, health insurance, pension insurance, etc. What did the Croats do? In the period 1991-1995, they did not pay the Serbs pensions. Those who retired in Republika Srpska after taking over, reintegrating and moving to the Croatian government, all those who were eligible in Republika Srpska received temporary pensions and receive temporary pensions day and day. These pensions are less than 30-40 percent compared to regular pensions. Serbia-Croatia's pension fund currently faces 24,000 items in the administrative process run to obtain pensions. These items take up to ten years. When will your pensioners get their pensions? If the natural outflow is 10 to 12 percent, people die, those people who have left years and years of work, created wealth in Croatia, will never make and receive a pension, no compensation, without talking about social benefits that Croatia does not pay to Serbs. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution daily warns the current government, we warn the ministries (and I used the presence of the minister and his associates here), as regards the documents. It's scary to ask the Krajisniks, who can't go there, go out there, check out their residence, and they live here for 10 or 12 years. Some military authorities are demanding a checkout at military institutions in Croatia so they can apply here. Some health authorities and institutions are also asking for a check-out there so that he can get a book and certain health insurance rights here. Tragic. The trip and going there, fees that Serbs set aside for Croats, are income from Croatian states. What's that for? Why is it that this unfortunate people, who have been driven from their hearth, have been taken away from them all, forced into Croatia to take certain documents? Isn't it enough that everything we've brought with us, all the documents, that we can make it quite normal in the administrative procedure? We have an agreement on the succession of the former Yugoslav republics, signed in 2001, which obliges all Contracting Parties, or all former republics, to regulate the issue of housing and housing rights. Household rights are resolved for Serbs in both Slovenia and BiH, and Macedonia, the only ones in Croatia are not. It's about 50,000 apartments, which are still open today. The international community's various appeals were sent to Croatia; they asked for it to regulate those relations with former tenants. No apartment in social property has been returned to Serbs. It's discrimination against that people. This government knows about this problem. He has a signed agreement, which is an annex G, article 6, which makes it clear to all former SFRJ states to regulate the issue of household rights. Croatia is the only one who hasn't returned it. It's about 50,000. Imagine what that's worth. The latest agreement of 2005 -- the Sarajevo Declaration, signed by the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, BiH, requires that it be resolved speedily, among other things, and the issue of housing rights. The Croats have not yet returned to this day. There's no one to wrap them up and press them. It's another crime against the Serbian people. The total value of property left by Serbs in Croatia, and property rights, is about 30 billion. If we add to this the inability to use these assets, our fields, our pastures, our forests are not used by Serbs, used by Croats, it is a lost profit that Serbs must charge on those 30. That, we count, is the government of Republika Srpska, around 20 billion, and 50 billion euros is the total value of property, property rights left by Serbs in Croatia. Who cares about that? Where are the NGOs now to stand in the protection of the Serb people? They're nowhere to be found. Where's the current government? She's nowhere to be found. Where's the international community? She's nowhere to be found. When we talk about why the Krajina vote for radicals, that's exactly why. The only SRS has been persistent since the time of the end people's accident, and has actively advocated the life and return of the Krajisnik right. Only Serbian Radical Party. If you think I'm wrong, come out and convince me. When any other political party, socialists, came out and said -- people, let's see why Croatia doesn't, what are the reasons? It is a continuation of genocide policy towards the extreme people, and you are complicit in such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10575	The word has the People's MP Bojana Aleksic, and then the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10576	As early as 2003, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro pledged to pass an asylum law in accordance with international regulations and international legislation, because we had no similar legislation until then. Namely, my predecessors also said that the 1980 Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners was in force. The law should foresee how asylum can be reached, procedures, ways of receiving asylum, who are those persons who can get asylum. In other words, it was necessary that the law at the same time protect the asylum-seeking person, but also the state that that asylum should be given, because in such situations there is the possibility that an asylum-seeker may abuse this right, that it is a person who has been prosecuted somewhere, who may pose a threat to this country and in such situations such a person must be returned, and the right to asylum is denied. This law that we have before us today finally regulates all these issues: it defines the administrative procedure, defines how an asylum seekers can exercise those rights and define the authorities that will be responsible for those rights of the asylum seekers. These are: the asylum office, which decides in the first degree whether or not an asylum right will be granted to an asylum person; then, the asylum commission, which is second-degree and which asylum application applicant which has been denied can file a complaint; at last, there are asylum centres, reception centres in which asylum seekers' accommodation will be regulated. I don't think there's anything controversial about it. All the concern that some opposition MPs have expressed about this law is more about the issue of its implementation than about its essence. By law, as far as I was following this discussion, and I followed it very carefully, none of the MPs, except some technical grudges, had anything to object to. My impression is that there is one high degree of consent when it comes to the adoption of this law, and that is something that is good and which should become practice and when it comes to other laws that will be passed. Finally, I would like to try to refer to the discussion of my colleagues, Buha, who spoke about members of our Serb people who had escaped from the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, from the Republic of Croatia and exiled, and escaped during the unfortunate events of the 1990s. As far as I know, refugee issues were regulated by the Refugees Act at the time. We almost had a chance to pass citizenship law in this assembly last month. As I am experiencing this law, the asylum law can, of course, be applied to our refugees, but primarily to citizens of some other countries who do not have such close ties with us, while members of the Serb people who have escaped from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina are now able to regulate their rights in another way, a much better way. They are members of our people, they are Serbs, they live in Serbia today. A Law on Citizenship, under which all Serbs have the right to citizenship, regardless of where they were born, in which country they live, and as full citizens of Serbia, they have certainly far greater opportunities to engage in the normal life of the Republic of Serbia, to be fully integrated, than those who will come to our country under this asylum law and seek asylum. In some other countries, which have similar laws, it is a practice that citizens of some other countries, which are generally not a large number, for the reasons of some persecution, have had such cases in some countries where there is no democracy, in which the tyrannical regimes are in force, that they are forced to flee and seek asylum because of political persecution, and these are individual cases. I don't think what happened to us, what happened to Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, can directly connect to this law. It is not true that the Serbian Radical Party is the only one who takes care of Serbs in Bosnia and Croatia. It is well known that both the government and this government have been taking care of them, that there was a Commissioner for Refugees, that at the time she was vice-president of the DSS Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, who is now coming from these parts and is the daughter of Dr. Jovan Raskovic, who best protected the interests of Serbs in Republika Srpska. Don't let our fellow countrymen, our brothers, whom we all care about, compete in patriotism with cheap rhetoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10577	Replica, by Article 101. Rules of Procedure, People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10578	It seems I'm not well understood, and it's about the real intention of not taking it the right way. Look, speaking of refugees, is there anything more natural than putting a refugee back where he was expelled from? This government does nothing to return; the Croatian government does nothing, and the international community does nothing. That's the basis. Twelve years... The refugees started in the 1990s, the largest exodus was 1995, after Storm and Flash; so from 1995 to 2007, it's 12 years, so 12 years, 90% of the population can't go back there. Isn't that discrimination? Had it been the opposite, if the Croats had been expelled, the whole world would have been raised to its feet, but with the Serbs, it could behave like the current government, both in Croatia and the international community. The NGOs are fighting for the lipanaires. Here, today I'm reading in "The Diaries" for sheep... Look, that's where the 30 billion-dollar property remained, and this government came out to meet the demands of the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture, returned the Lipiennere. Do you know how many Serbian horses, cows, etc. The rest? Who cares about that? Who cares? Thirty-five thousand residential and industrial buildings were in progress during the storm itself, and a month after that, burned, destroyed, devastated, before it was robbed. Who's worried? Only the value of this asset is five or six billion. Who's talking about the Serbs' actions? No money since the privatisation of social and state capital in Croatia has belonged to Serbs. Who's worried? The value of assets, the value of capital per year from 1991 was 126 billion marks in Croatia, to say that this is the value in euros today; if we add that the Serbs were 12.5%, that is 16 billion euros, what belongs to Serbs. Croatia has also privatised social enterprises and state-owned enterprises. No single dollar belongs to this poor, troubled people. Who's worried?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10579	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10580	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I would like to say, on behalf of the SPS, without the intention of participating in an upgrade who has helped more or less, that my colleague Buha is absolutely right when he talks about these things, because the fact that the state of Serbia is not doing what is expected to do to help people from the former Republic of Croatia, now the countries of Croatia, who have been expelled, are not gone by their own free will, does not make it sufficient for this problem to first open and then solve it. We can help them most if we tell the truth about those things that happened in the 1990s. The fact is that there was ethnic cleansing, that 250,000 people were expelled from their hearths. After all, it is not something we invented or we think it was, and Professor Svetozar Livada published in Croatia a book where black on white says that Croats, or Tudjman's regime, committed ethnic cleansing. And, it presents documents that claim (means, documents, it is not a matter of any parliamentary group or individual) that Tudjman has advocated a radical solution to the Serbian issue in Croatia, to reduce the number of Serbs in Croatia, where they would never again constitute a critical mass that can, in some racist way, question the independence and purpose of the existence of the Croatian state. But the fact is that the state, the Republic of Serbia, after 2000, at least in the opinion of us Socialists, does not seem enough to help these people, because one thing is to resolve their status here, to find legal ways to make their position as good as possible, and another is to help them return to their hearths. We all know, for years back, that the process of returning, let alone the integration of exiled Serbs into Croatian society, does not go at the desired pace, we know that few people who go there are exposed to various kinds of shagging. It would be logical for the state to react to such things, let alone pressure against both the Croatian government and international organisations allegedly dealing with these issues, to point to the position of Serbs in Croatia. The fact is that it remains, to say, at a far lower level, probably for reasons to establish a confidence measure; but, you know, it's a pathetic measure of trust when the state of Serbia does not pay attention to the issues it needs, and some issues that do not have its essence are given meanings which are objectively not. Therefore, we Socialists believe that the state should absolutely be more determined, more explicit, about the issue of the return of exiled Serbs to their hearth, not to mention the issue of property. Not only is the property individual, but also the property that Serbian companies have in Croatia. Here, an example works, our colleague Milan Nikolic is chairman of the Simpa Management Board. Simpo has huge assets in Croatia. Because the state won't defend Simpa property there and don't take that property, as part of the Simpa balance sheet, it's threatened to shut down Simpo because of its obligations, because of the state's claim to Simpa. I'm referring to this as an example, as a case that isn't isolated, there's a lot of it, and the state can do a lot of things if it wants to, but we still don't see it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10581	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10582	Mr. Albianic, if you look at Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure, you will see that this bill had to be drawn up in a different way and that a representative of the Government under this bill would have to be more active in the debate. What's it really about? We don't need a minister named Jocic who would sit here and pose to be photographed by these cameras, but to explain to us what they wanted to do when they put this bill in the process. Since these DSS guys have finally spoken, I just need to draw your attention that the basis for the adoption of this law is in Article 57(2). So, those who wrote and brought the Constitution said and ordered that we could pass a law that would arrange a asylum procedure. This law doesn't regulate it. This law regulates other issues, and it must explain why it regulates other issues, what this government is preparing in the future to resolve this law, and it does not inform us in good time, but forces us to interpret between the ranks the high thoughts of those who set the National Assembly on fire. That is why an active member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is needed, so no matter who they determine, who will come out here after every speaker and explain what it is. Mr. Jocic can be justified today only if he clears up with organised crime, headed by Boris Tadic, Dusko Petrovic and these others.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10583	Please, Mr. Krasic, take care of what context you put your sentences in. Please take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10584	Mr. Albianic, I didn't hear you correctly. What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10585	Focus on your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10586	Mr. Albianic, do you read the paper? Buy this "Hello", read what it says there - that Boris Tadic loves both men and women.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10587	Please, Mr. Crassus, get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10588	Mr. Albianic, I point to a major problem overrun by the state. I know why he hates the Serbian Orthodox Church -- because he was abandoned by his wife, but that's his problem, I don't care. I just told you, Mr. Albianic, Mr. Jocic would be justifiably absent only if he cleared up with organised crime in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10589	Mr. Krasic, your time is up. In no way did I provoke Mr Krasic's words. I warned him to take care of it. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that Mr. Albianic has dropped his concentration, but, Mr. Albianic, that is no reason to put up with MPs. So, Mr. Krasic had three minutes, you had him... I warn you that you have violated Article 100, which in point 2 says that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, that the quote and explanation of what the injury is, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, where the time necessary for a quote is not counted. So, you, Mr. Albianic, had to act in accordance with Article 27 first and only then comply with these other members. You can't go from day to day, from hour to hour, and from minute to minute, how at any time you feel it's appropriate to decide, so sometimes you allow one way to talk, another time and interrupt the speaker when you think of it. There are exactly certain cases where the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, can interrupt the speaker, and this, Mr Albianic, was none of them. Here's why he wasn't. It wasn't because it was, then you had to do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to do it the way you did it, as if you were arguing with someone at the market, but you had to say - please, Mr. Krasic, I interrupt you, in line with the team member and the team, because in my opinion you did this and that offence; well, if you think that's the situation you're calling for, to make a note or anything else. You didn't do any of that. You interrupted Mr. Krasic because you didn't like what he was saying, but that's your political attitude. So he didn't insult anyone, he wasn't incorrect, he didn't do any harm. In the end, you took away the opportunity to tell him what he wanted because it was three minutes away, but you didn't, and in those three minutes, you were obliged to include the time you took from him when you interrupted him. So, Mr. Albianic, there's no need for us to be making a bigger problem now than it is, admit your mistake, give Mr. Krasic another word and continue the debate in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10591	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Of course I will give Mr Krasic another word, but under Article 104, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to address one another with respect and not to use offensive expressions, nor to give facts and assessments regarding the private life of others. I warned Mr Krasic, of course, when the time was up that was three minutes after the Rules of Procedure. I did not express myself in any way, nor do I express my political position as I chair the meetings of the National Assembly. I'm really trying to do the same for all the MPs. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10592	I would only ask the MPs and the public to understand that I had nothing to do with what Mr. Albianic said. He warned me because I reportedly provided personal information about someone. I didn't bring anything personal. If personal information is a reasonable suspicion that it's an organized group of criminals, then you said that the President of the Republic is a criminal, not me. You have to include a little bit of the logical part of the brain that could be used to understand words, not just mathematics, numbers, or digits. To go back to what I actually answered. I answered because there's a big problem with how to vote for this bill. We are authorized by law to arrange only the procedure. Tadics were also described in the National Liberation Fight Encyclopedia. If I quote that, then I'll get a life sentence. You'll see what's written there about that family during the war, but it doesn't matter. Why is it important to make this clear to us whether refuge is a synonym for the word asylum or not? Why is the law called asylum, not sanctuary? Why did you need to define what a refugee was? Why did you have the need to put subsidiary protection, sanctuary, refugees, foreigners, asylum procedures, asylum? What's behind this? In the end, orthodox lies. Serbia-Montenegro was admitted to the Council of Europe in 2003, during an emergency. No state is accepted unless it respects the European Convention on Human Rights, and you are going out here to demonstrate absolute ignorance, and you say – thanks to this bill, we meet the conditions, we meet the obligation we have under the universal declaration, charters, etc. It's all incorporated into our legal system a long time ago, there's nothing epic about it. What's epochal? What's between the lines and the letters. What's in between, it takes Jocic to come and tell us what's in between. So that this guy doesn't interrupt me, I'm registered for this discussion, so I'm going to try to explain to you what all the pranks are about. Mr. Obradovic, Tudjman did not take radical measures, but democratic measures when he expelled Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10593	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to stick to the objective and content of the topic that's on the agenda today. First of all, I would just like to inform you and point to some negative phenomena, primarily injuries to the civilian population, which were committed in Croatia's territory towards the Serb population, and it is also asylum, or sanctuary, that is, a million members of the Serb people living in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is why Serbs had to flee under the Ustasha knife: Joško Juric, for example, a captured member of the Vukovar National Guard Assembly, declares in his statement that only what is Croatian can remain in Croatia and that there is no place for Serbs on Croatian soil. In that name, in order to prove his loyalty to the Croatian thing, Juric slaughtered his pregnant wife, who was Serbian nationality, knifed her stomach and pulled the seven-month fruit out of her womb. After he massacred the child, he nailed both nails to a pear tree in the village of Mitnica. This says that we can't keep quiet and the Serbian government can't keep quiet, it has to come out, it has to require Serbs to be provided with protection and to return to the Republic of Serbia, their country, to return to the Republic of Croatia, to return to BiH and return to all territories from which the enemies of the Serb people, with the help of America, Germany and other enemies of the Serbian people; to protect their countrymen, Serbs, who have lived here for centuries and who have defended the territory of Croatia, who would still be under Austro-Hungarian or under Turkey if there were no Serbs who protected those territories and freed them from the enemy. So these are the reasons why I wanted to get back to you, so let the public know. Ladies and gentlemen, you should know, in the first place, the MPs, because you answer in front of the voters and the citizens of Serbia, and our government, who is wise enough, does nothing to make a million citizens of Serbian nationality return to their territory and to their own country, that is, their territory and their republic. I would like the public to be informed, and to meet the MPs. I read what I was saying from the book of Dr. Miodrag Starčević and Nikola Petkovic "By Violence and Crime Against Rights". That is why the Serbian Radical Party considered and believes urgent and energetic measures must be taken. Do not serve the enemies of the Serb people, protect Serbs and all citizens of Serbia from any persecution and any crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10595	The word has been given by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so the MP Vladan Batic, the MP of the people, Nemanja Sarovic, and the MP of the people, Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10596	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am deeply shaken by what Mr Jojic has read. From 6 November 1991 until the end of March 1992, I was, as a reserver of JNA, right in Vukovar and the work around Vukovar. I know about this event. At the time, we started "Serbian Werewolves" newspaper. I wrote an article about this particular event. It was the fate of Serbs in the Ustasha environment. It was the fate of every Serb that the Ustashas got. It was fate, unfortunately and remained until today, for every Serb on the territory of former AVNOJ Croatia at the administrative borders, and now the state, thanks to the Vatican administration. The Vatican didn't condemn this one or similar crimes. Seven months ago, an unborn child was nailed by a criminal, a villain, I don't know, I don't have a word. He slaughtered his own child and nailed it with a plum nail, not a pear, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10597	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10598	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 200. Ten days ago, I asked the Minister of Justice about the traffic collapse. He's continuing, he's taking on even bigger conditions. A branch of government in Serbia is not working today. The house is on fire, and the grandmother is combing. It's like it doesn't bother anyone. People are looking for their elemental rights, people who are turned into citizens of the second order, and then their eyes are stained with certain offers that have nothing to do with reality. So we need to have an answer to the question whether it will come out of this agony that the Serbian judiciary is in. I said, as DHSS MP, I appeal to judges, prosecutors, expert associates, interns to co-ordinate with judicial employees, because these people are doing their job fairly and responsibly. There aren't too many, there's few, not enough. It's a replacement thesis. And the directors of public enterprises have 30-40 times their salary. Is this a story about human society, about solidarity, about responsibility? I demand that the President of the Supreme Court report to the Republic Prosecutor. They are at the top of the pyramid of the judiciary, at the top of the judge's and prosecutor's organisations, and they are silent. He can't keep his mouth shut. The minister of justice took some steps to get rid of some judges and we'll see what the effects of that will be. What about the Supreme Court? What about the court that ruled on the Delta lawsuit in a administrative dispute against the Competition Protection Commission? Those judges should be subject to discharge. Why? Because in the verdict, they are called in reason for something unrecorded in the analysis of the judiciary, a study on the legal aspects of concentration, an example of C Market, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. I feel ashamed, I feel uncomfortable, because I graduated from that university, master's degree and doctorate. I am ashamed that this study was signed by some people I believed fought with me for a different, European and democratic Serbia. Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to take my word for it again, to finish this story, Mr. Albianic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10599	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Business, then Milorad Buha, Natasa Jovanovic, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward because Article 104 of Article 1, which says: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "In the first place, this provision applies to the president of the Assembly and to the chairman; they have even more obligation because they are taking those functions, they have a greater obligation than all the other MPs. This obligation applies not only to what the chairman or any of the MPs will say but also to how they behave. As one of the MPs spoke earlier, Mr. Albianic acted extremely incorrectly, grabbed his head, waved, moved to interrupt him, and gave up everything he didn't like, for one reason or another, that Mr. Petar Jojic was saying. The data provided by Petar Jojic are absolutely accurate and that is what is most important. Why didn't it please you, I don't know, you were obliged, as the chairman of the National Assembly, to listen to that earthquake story with your heads up, not to behave the way you acted. You don't like it, and you obviously can't listen, either you or your coalition representatives, when it comes to crimes against Serbs. When they say we're a genocidal people, you can listen to it indefinitely. That'll never sting your ears. When Boris Tadic apologizes, it doesn't bother you, it doesn't steam your ears. When it comes to crimes against Serbs, then you grab your head, then you can't listen, then you want to break up the MP. Boris Tadic, president of Serbia (unfortunately, Serbian President), stood up for 30 Croatian lipiscaners, and there we were obliged to listen to torture; the president himself said he stood up for 30 Croatian lipiscaners. Shame on him and everyone who supports him. Why didn't a family of Serbians come back? How can Serbia return Lipipiers if 1,780,000 head of large cattle, the property of Serbs, remains in Republika Srpska? With what right have they been returned? They were not allowed to return the sparrow, not the horses, until first they made sure that all Serbian refugees returned to their hearths, and only then would we see whose horses they were and that the horses were returning. One more thing, given the fact that it is clear that Serbs have been persecuted not only in Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska but also in the whole world, that the Croatian state has a huge number of raised Interpol arrest warrants and that this is another way to ensure that the genocide committed is a permanent nature and that no one can return and be sure that it will end up in prison, I ask the MP's question to the minister of justice – how many Interpol's arrest warrants exist for crimes committed against Serbs? So how many Interpol arrest warrants, raised at the request of the Republic of Serbia, are there against criminals from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10601	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10602	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in which the absurd situation is the current government, and in particular the Government of the Republic of Serbia, best says that the funds for the departure of the Krajisnik Serbs are provided for parliamentary elections in Croatia, which will be held on 25 November this year. Buses and tickets are back... So the Serbs can go to the polls and go back. It's absurd. It's absurd for refugees to drive there after 12 years and return the return card. It's not the first time. All elections in Croatia are currently supported by this power. Genocide and ethnic cleansing were made over Serbs. This government does nothing to keep these buses in one direction, as we are told by international standards, rules and justice, so that these people who have been exiled are sent back there. No, the cards are back and you're back. The following is even more absurd – all activities go through the Commissioner for Refugees. See what he does: The refugee commissioner, instead of providing buses, gives money to the Krajisnik associations and then they hire buses. Here is the 2006 data: The Knin Democratic Initiative received 3,920,000, the Croatian and BiH Serb Communities 980, the Association of Serbs from Croatia 818.000, etc. A total of 10,500,000, transportation in one direction and another. That's how they launder money. This is the way of discrimination between associations. So we have certain associations that are blindly working in the interest of the current government to launder certain funds. That's what's gonna happen now. Only three associations are now actively working with the government of the Republic of Serbia and with the Commissioner for Refugees. They were promised, we have information in the Republika Srpska government in exile, about four million. Why doesn't that job, while it's already going there, work for the Refugee Commissioner? Why don't they hire buses and do the job? Why does it have to go through the Krajina Association? That's the kind of money laundering. I've got it here, I'll read it when we talk about amendments, a few complaints from the Krajina Association that say they've been discriminated against, that some associations have as much funds as they want, in this way, and other associations have nothing. Again, it is the current authority that is discriminatory both towards the Krajisniks and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10603	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10604	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure which regulate the rights and obligations of the messengers of the people. All this is said by counterpart Buha, who unfortunately is the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina, who was banished from his centuries-old hearth, as well as a million Serbs who had to leave the century-old Serbian country, speaks enough to the fact that the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, began the process of calculating and completely destroying the anti-Serbian Hague case a few days ago, explained to our political insinuators and the entire public of Serbia that the Serbian people were actually beginning to suffer in the restored Ustasha state under the leadership of Franjo Tudjman. If you followed the testimony of one who led the army in that period last night, which was spoken by our president in The Hague tribunal on the day of Mitrovica, you will see that even those who were so unfortunately and unprepared to run the army, the JNA cannot, like General Kadijevic and the others, claim the opposite of what is brilliant, teaching first of all judges in the court's council cabinet... About that unfortunate Christine that I'm not talking, no one can teach her anything, because that indictment was concluded and she took over from the monster Carla del Ponte, under the leadership of the DOS regime and Zoran Djindjic as prime minister at the time. How deadly is the truth that Dr. Vojislav Seselj is... If you can, Mr. Milivojevic, I'll explain to you what it says in that book before you start reading it, or buy it, I believe you will, as well as many of our colleagues and the general public. I answered, which is my obligation, because the SRS phone, both at our MP's club and at my office, keeps ringing, as well as at 3 in Zemun Square, the citizens ask where they can buy the book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". This is the latest book by the president of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who testifies to these events that we started the story on these points of the agenda and on the role of this unfortunate woman who is only of origin, unfortunately, from the area of Šumadija. You may think that such a traitorous soul is in the heart of Serbia, in Shumadija, this unfortunate woman, Natasa Kandic. Professor Vojislav Seselj, in collaboration with his expert team, prepares to fully expose the false indictment of the Hague case, in this book, I end up Mr. Djudjevic, as well as in all his testimony, saying that the atmosphere of fear, tension and tension in the field of Vojvodina has just spread Natasa Kandic and her alike, those who are the product of the communist regime and those who worked for the enemies of the Serb people, America and Western forces, who never care about the Republic of Serbia's Krajina being preserved or executed, as the president of our party said, amputation of that part of AVNOJ Croatia that has belonged to the Serbian people for centuries. Not only did he advocate it, but he reminded you in his testimony, yet King Alexander Karadjordjevic in 1920... Or, to return to the period before the unification of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, when the progenitor of the then Radical Party Nikola Pasic, the great of our history, spoke – Your Majesty,... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... We need to be distracted and know what's ours. Those like Natasa Kandic and the other traitors of the Serb people, above all, brought so far that Mr Buha here in Serbia now must protect the rights of our exiled countrymen, that we from the assembly booth must constantly remind you of the crimes that the Ustasha have committed against our people. And as for the unfortunate woman Natasha Kandic and her like, she will end up as the darkest or darkest side of someone who can appear and originates in these areas, and Dr Vojislav Seselj will, first of all, beat the Hague casamat. I will end this sentence by St. Nicholas Velimirovic... (Chairman: Please finish.) )......................................................................................................... quoted by a reference work in this book, counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, as saying: "The truth does not depend on time and is neither new nor old, but it is true, yesterday, today, tomorrow. "Yesterday and today and tomorrow, always, everywhere and in every place, Dr. Vojislav Seselj spoke only the truth, she is inexorable, his truth will win, and I most warmly recommend you buy this book "Afer of the Croats and Ustasha whore Natasa Kandic" and find out something else you may not know, which will help you understand in a better way both Mr. Buha and each of our countrymen who has been expelled from Republika Srpska, anyone who today is struggling under DOS rule here in Serbia, who has no hearing and responsibility for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10605	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10606	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the DHSS are in favour of respect, strengthening and affirming those institutions that represent the current of modern European civilization and modern European states, and among other things are those that should respect, respect, value, watch out, watch out, bold, strengthen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Council for the fight against corruption, the Council for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Anti-Monopoly Commission, i.e. the Competition Protection Commission. May I have your attention, on 10 July 2006, the Competition Protection Commission is making a solution that rejects the request for authorisation for the implementation of the concentration between Prime Minister C and C Market. You know it was preceded by that famous meeting of Milan Bek, Slobodan Radulovic and Miroslav Miskovic, under the auspices of Prime Minister Kostunica, which was the reason for the hickey and hysteria, which was the team that gave and analysed the report on the occasion of the Anti-Corruption Council, and the target was the chairman of Mrs Verica Barac's Council. That's one story, and I wouldn't be thinking about it right now. I hope that a survey committee will be formed and that it will be discussed. However, in order to achieve a merger or concentration, it was necessary to approve the Commission for the protection of competition or the anti-monopoly Commission. That request was denied. That's level one. The company "Delta" is talking to me, and that's what fraternised me, as it filed a lawsuit initiating a administrative dispute before Serbia's Supreme Court, the Faculty of Law. A private company is talking to law school! The law school, acting on the request of a private company, which is an unusual precedent, is conducting a study on the legal aspects of the concentration. Look, that wouldn't be too bad, but that study goes with the Supreme Court lawsuit. So, the Supreme Court did not engage the Faculty of Law in the process of possible art, nor could the Supreme Court hire anyone to give him legal interpretation, legal expertise. It's unrecorded in the analysis of court practice. The lawsuit, with this contribution, a study by the Faculty of Law and another analysis by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, is not delivered to the other side, the defendant's commission for the prevention of competition, and then the Supreme Court, which adopts the complaint "Delte", mentions this analysis and this legal study in the light of the verdict. This is an unfair study. This is embarrassing and embarrassing. This is the humiliation of an institution that has an extremely great reputation in these areas (here, I am finishing), of the Faculty of Law. However, at a meeting of the Trade Committee held yesterday, I asked, there are colleagues attending the session, the president of the Competition Prevention Commission (pardon, again to prevent, because the government wants to prevent, rather than encourage, competition) Mrs Dijana Bayalovic whether, despite the existence of this refusal solution, that is, despite the lack of agreement to carry out the capital concentration, she was executed. The answer is yes, even new companies are placed on the ‘C market’ stores. It means disrespect for institutions, it means that there is someone above the law and above the law... (President: Comrade Batic, finish. I'm done. We fight against it, and we want everyone to know it, we from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10607	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to tell you a few words, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, about this previous debate on refugees from the Republika Srpska region. With this in mind, I would recommend that everyone read the latest book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, which is called "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". I also understand that Vesna Pesic is coming out of the O.R. right now and that she can't listen to this, because Vesna Pesic is one of those who went to Hrtkovci and deceived Croatian citizens to have their names on the list of exorcisms. One of the biggest media lies was that Vojislav Seselj read a list of names of persons who had to leave the Krtkovci. These were the most respected citizens of the Croatians: the director of the sawmill, the village doctor, etc. So, the most respected and educated. No list of Dr Vojislav Seselj at a rally in Krtkovci on 6 May has been read. We have the testimony of Croatian locals, Croats, who say – for the first time I heard a delegation come with Vesna Pesic that my name is also on the banishment list. In whose name did you, Mrs. Pesic, work, to be served later, for God's sake, over the fate of these people, I don't know. The truth about these events, the truth about the reasons why Serb refugees came and the truth about events in the Krtkovics themselves was published in the book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". The first refugees and the first waves of refugees did not come from Republika Srpska, they were not madder people, as some say, but, according to the Croatians' testimony, they came first from Zagreb, Sibenik, Split, Rijeka, so from the places where Serbian houses were most valuable and in which Serbs were minority. The first refugees started in 1991 and 1992. It was only 1995 that a wave of refugees left Republika Srpska. Many think they'll be able to silence us Serbian radicals, think they'll be able to poison the truth about these events, but we're telling you they won't. We'll talk, I'll finish, we'll talk louder and we'll promote this book in every municipality in Serbia. We will try to make sure that the majority of citizens in Serbia read this book and learn the real truth about events during the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10609	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Buha, and then Miss Natasa Jovanovic, and Mrs Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10610	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia, the distinguished Krajisniki, we must mention here certain moves of the current government calling on citizens, or exiled persons from Kosovo and Metohija, not to go to elections held in Kosovo and Metohija. We call on citizens of our country not to go to elections in their country. What's the reason? The current government says it is a non-recognition of the legitimacy of the authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, the same authority calls on citizens, refugees from Republika Srpska and Croatia to go to elections and confirm another legitimacy of the government. It's hypocrisy. All citizens are invited in their own country not to go out and recognise legitimacy, and on the other hand, citizens, and those and these, because we have mostly one and the other citizenship, to go there and recognise the legitimacy of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about these relationships, then we have to say that the same government is spending huge funds; we said, it will provide buses, provide marketing access; all those from the Republic of Croatia who come here are paying huge funds to invite citizens there in the media. What did the citizens, or refugees from Republika Srpska and Croatia get for these 15 years? They haven't gotten anything in 15 years. It's hypocritical to invite these people. Will these elections in Croatia get anything more than they have now received in government participation? Nothing more. Under Croatian constitutional law, Serbs belong, as a national minority, to only three MPs in the parliament. There is a possibility that there is another representative. What's three or four MPs going to mean between 152? And a genocide policy conducted by the Croatian government. Nothing. On the other hand, those who go there go to the fires and round up whoever they find on the lists. Who are they? These are Serbs who stayed there, who have privileges from the Croatian authorities. It is only the passing of the Serbs who remain in the services and who have the political ability to display. The government of Republika Srpska, in persecution, along with a dozen Krajisnik associations, calls on all Krajisniks not to go there. Do not confirm the legitimacy of that authority. On the other hand, if you already go there, go to the hearths, your hearths, houses and gardens, but don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10611	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10612	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, needed a new norm, in the legal form, of the MUP to regulate an area of asylum or refuge, if it is a synonym, and a colleague Krasic is right about what is called asylum. However, you have seen it yourself, and later we will talk about it, that it is one, in the right sense of the word, technical law, but the essence of this law is not covered, and that is all what colleagues of Buha and all of us, first and foremost the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. I am one of my esteemed colleagues, Sarovic, who is one of the experts working on this book and helping President Seselj prepare for defense, although you know that his defense is firmly founded by the ideologies of the SRS... So, the book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic" is only one part of what he will talk about in the coming months and will win The Hague tribunal. While you, colleague Sarovic, mentioned colleague Vesna Pesic, I must tell you that in one sentence, the president (in fact, you know, to remind you) explained it nicely to the entire public. I mean, you see how nebulous she is... I'm not talking to you, because you're one of the legal experts that helps the president in defense, I'm talking to the public. How nebulous is the indictment (I don't know if these there managed to translate the word "nebulosis" from Serbian to English) also says that they wrote in the biography of our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, that he was the dissident of the communist times of the 1980s, that he was gathering and holding meetings with Serbian nationalists, such as Ljubomir Tadic, is the father of Boris Tadic, Mrs. Vesna Pesic and the others, not to mention them. Imagine, Vesna Pesic, a Serb nationalist! A woman practicalist, from a communist time that's done so much evil, a waste from the eighth session, I don't know what she's been saying, she's started to spread the truth, like the Christian case, against the president of our party, and that's why she's politically failed... (President: Miss Jovanovic... )......................................................................................................... was on the coat of arms of Vuk Draskovic. Here, I'll finish up with you, colleague Judjevich, because you deserve that respect. So we use the assembly pay phone and every place in Serbia will be visited, and in Kragujevac is the promotion of this book on December 1st, to talk about those, such as Natasa Kandic, who are traitors of the Serb people, but who have done a lot of evil to us and who were or were not aware that they were synchronised to the expense of the Ustasha Tudjman regime. I am in the Serbian Radical Foreigner, among my colleagues and among my friends in private life known as the person who bestows the books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Allow me, with all due respect to you, since the president spoke about it in The Hague a few days ago, to call on the brotherhood and unity of Muslims, Serbs Catholics, Serbs Muslims and Serbs of Orthodox people, 1991 and 1992, to give you this book, with dedication, out of respect for your historical facts, and I have the authority of the party president to sign on his books. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10613	When you confess to the Bosniak National Corps, then I'll accept that book. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10614	I don't usually discuss with Mr. Radicals, really, it's not my passion to argue with you. Mr. Sarovic, what's wrong with you? First you violated the Rules of Procedure to advertise the book... You are engaged in courting your boss to advance your career; you will go out for this pay phone in the hope that someone will hear you, that someone will inform him and that on this basis you will advance in the party, get a higher position. But if you mention my name – you can check it out, you're always close to the service, they can check it out for you, if you can't do it alone – I've never been in Khrtkovci in my life. You seem to be chasing some people. I don't know, maybe she was some other person, and I haven't set foot in my life in a village like a place called the Rats. It's the custom for you here from this pay phone, but not just you, many of your colleagues, to come out of the dots, to tell a lie, so if you pass, it's like that dog that scratched the car, so I'm in the Krtkovci. That's your style. So the lie is your style. First of all, you lied to me. Please prove in any way that I have ever commented in my life, been in the Krtkovci, nothing to do with my name. So, you might find another name, but you'll never find my name in relation to the Khrtkovci. Secondly, for what Miss Natasa Jovanovic said, please, I have followed the trial in The Hague very well, Mr Vojislav Seselj. It's not true at all what he said, that your interpretation, that Mr. Seselj said that he was hanging out with nationalists in Belgrade... No, wait, this is how it was: Vojislav Seselj's biography says he came to Belgrade in the 1980s and joined a group of nationalists. He denied joining a group of nationalists in Belgrade, so he mentioned, citing what a nationalist professor he is. Ljubomir Tadic, like nationalist Boris Tadic, who he knew, Veselinka Zastavnović, who was arrested in Knez Miletino at the time, when he lectured Milovan Đilas, because I was active at the same time, and I know all that information, you can't lie about it, he mentioned which nationalists were – was Vesna Pesic, and Nebojsa Popov. Please, you don't know anything about me; as Mr. Sarovic lied that I was ever in the Krtkovci, so you don't know that I was never a practicer. I've never had anything to do with "Pracsis," or ever published articles or anything. He didn't say that... You know what, Miss Natasha, I now have to tell you, could you bring a transcript of what was said? There was no mention of any practicers in the work, and I was never a practicer, nor was it during that previous defense mentioned that I was a practicer. Bring the text and let's see. I just wanted to draw the public's attention that when they speak radicals, you'll be very careful, because until you say "shave," they'll tell a lie. As a lie that I was in the Krtkovci, it is also a lie that Miss Natasa Jovanovic said that Vojislav Seselj mentioned me as a practicalist, because he knows well that I have never been in a group of practices of philosophy. So they're making it all up. In the future, whenever you hear it, know that whenever they open their mouths in 95% of the cases, they'll tell a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10615	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Vesna Pesic, I think that you, of course not knowing, have finally done something good for Serbia. Namely, Mrs. Pesic, I didn't lie. I will now read to you a part of the book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj called "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". (Vesna Pesic, from the post: Which member? For God's sake, Mrs. Pesic, you are still in years where you should be a little more calm. Wait, have some patience, I'll read it to you, so a lot of things will be clear to you. So, according to the Croatians from the Croats, this isn't something I invented or invented by anyone on the defense team, I'll quote you, he says, "For clarity, I have to say that nobody personally threatened me. The people who came to my house were nice, they asked me if I wanted to trade my house for their house in Croatia. "So, the gentleman himself says no one ever threatened him. Then he says, "I did not attend Seselj's speech in the Krtkovci, but those who did tell me that it is better for the Croats to go immediately and replace their houses with Serbs, but only to go to the mountains with plastic bags. Not that time, but later, when a delegation from Belgrade, where Vesna Pesic, came to Hrtkovce, found out that my name is on the list of people to go. I've never heard of being called, nor have I seen a list of names. "So, Mrs. Pesic, if anyone lies, then the Hague witnesses lie, but then that's your problem again, because you're one of those fighters so-called. for human rights, which belongs and is proud to belong to The Hague lobby. I, Mrs. Pesic, belong to the Anti-Has Lobby, am also proud of it, but unlike you, unlike you, for this home and for the citizens who chose me, I will not use such vulgar words as you have spoken to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10617	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10618	Mr. Sarovic, I'm sorry if I spoke vulgarly, but, please, you could quote those vulgar words. You sometimes take for granted what it says in the books of Vojislav Seselj. It's just that what you've just read... I would be proud, I have no reason to lie to you, if I had been to a delegation of Belgrade that was in the Krtkovci at the time when people were expelled from there. I never hid anything from my career and why would I try to hide now that I was in some delegation that was in the Krtkovci. Really, that information, if it's a witness, I haven't read it, I don't know what book it's from... (Dragan Todorovic, from place: Buy a book. I don't want to waste money. I just mentioned that at the pay phone, you're making certain estimates of certain people lightly, and I'm telling you that I haven't been to that place in my life. So everything you found here isn't true, check it out, you have a chance to check it out. I didn't insult anything, I didn't say any insults, and I didn't use any vulgar words. Simply, the claim that I was in the Krtkovci, as part of some delegation, is not true. The fact that you're here at the pay phone right now doing repeat defenses for your boss, that's the reputation of your MP club, your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10619	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Milena Stankovic, and then MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Djudjevic, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic has one manners in his behaviour, which is that he constantly abuses the post of vice-president of parliament. This is done by entering the debate with MPs from the post of vice-president, which offends, which casts. Recently, we had the opportunity to hear Miss Jovanovic tell SPS MP Mr. Obradovic, from the post of vice-president, not to be silly. I understand that you as Vice President and as your colleague, Miss Jovanovic, tolerate her behaviour, but we MPs of this House are really asking you to act in accordance with the powers that this Rules of Procedure gives you. Ms. Jovanovic, by the way, has a good manners to come out and when she wants to say something, she says that about this speaker, but occasionally she has her passions, even from the vice president's post. I would like to ask Miss Jovanovic to pay attention to her behaviour on this occasion. I will not ask for parliament to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I do indeed draw attention that it has come to the post of vice-president of this parliament with the votes of all MPs of this parliament and that it should respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10621	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10622	I'd just like to respond, just like my previous colleague, to ask Mrs. Vesna Pesic to choose her words. First of all, you made one terrible accusation - that there was an exorcism in the Krtkovci. You judge it, Mrs. Pesic, without any trial. On your word, those judgments are pronounced where they are spoken, your word, and those like you are. It was your role, and it is also your role today -- to accuse as many people in Serbia as possible of committing serious war crimes, so that Serbia, in which you could not be in power, or even parliamentary, would be charged with the crimes it allegedly committed. What do we need from the Tribunal in The Hague when we have you here who, as free-thinking people, are representing you both as prosecutors and as judges? Mrs. Vesna Pesic, God forbid I was so expelled from Kragujevac, that they gave me a huge villa in Zadar or a hotel, or in Zagreb in the best place, and that I gave them my father's house worth five or six euros. God forbid someone would banish me like that and now sell that property in Croatia and return to Krtkovci with a new few million euros. Another thing, Mrs. Pesic, and you from that wonderful parliamentary group, directional, moderate and European, when you tell someone that lying from a pay phone is not an insult, it's wonderful words, it's European words of love, and when someone tells you to talk, it's already hate speech. Where did you balance what's the more difficult word, what's more dangerous, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure -- tell someone he's lying? No, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it's radicals, as soon as they're married, they agree. You nod your head. And when we tell you to talk, we hurt you terribly, your morality and your dignity. So, you've long and hurt your morale and put it at risk. Your strength in the election is a clear sign of how strong, moral and persistent you are. So please, don't look up to these older MPs from your MP group, because some of them, and I can directly call them, receive apnoise every month from some people, even complains when they don't arrive on time. You're doing everything you can for apologetics. You're such a group of MPs, you're so set up, you're so imaginary. You work for the apanaze. That's why I ask you, we don't pay attention to what you tell us, you don't insult us at all, but don't move like the one who beats a man and cries. So, stoic, take a brave shot, take it. These are the best possible blows in Serbia from a pay phone. God forbid we all exchange punches like this, you tell the truth about us, we judge you, the people judge you. Therefore, all that is written in the books of Vojislav Seselj, these are testimony of witnesses. This is true, these are facts; these are not the comments of Vojislav Seselj, this is a statement by the prosecution's witnesses, Mrs Pesic. Of course that was collected by Vojislav Seselj, it's valuable to him in his defense, so it's his most precious part of the defense. That is why this book will not be translated and will not be used in court. It's the most important defense document. The Croats say they were leaving the Krutkovci. The Croatian priest says he was checking to see if every Croat was settled at least in terms of the property that... I don't know what's happening to you. You're on your way out of the assembly anyway, Mr. Vice President. Don't whistle behind my back. (Chairman: You're out of time, Mr. Nikolic. I have heard that you are leaving parliament, since it is undemocratic, you have been photographed even as you leave parliament. So let it go, Mrs. Pesic, that Mr. Seselj defends himself with the power of arguments, which he could never do in Serbia. Let his alleged crimes, which you have spoken of extensively, be revealed and proven to you. Let us fight this battle for Serbia, it is a battle for Serbia and you know it very well. You have lost the conviction of Slobodan Milosevic, not to be condemned by Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, and we will be allowed to defend both Serbia and Vojislav Seselj with the power of the arguments, you know we have nothing else in The Hague. I recommend you, sit down, write a book from your science, this is not your science.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10623	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic. Gives priority to Mrs. Vesni Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10624	Mr. Nikolic, I need to speak to you very briefly. To me, frankly, it did not occur to me to deal with, accuse or anything in the public and in the Assembly of the process that takes place in The Hague. You know how this situation happened? I went out because I had a deal; I heard someone at the door mentioning me and coming back to hear what they were saying about me. Now, you're telling me, because of the alleged paranoia that I'm receiving and what I do, where you've offended me, that I'm doing something because it's some people who are mercenaries, by you, so I'm taking the rap and waiting every month. When I say that what's said here... Believe me, I didn't even know where it came from, that information about me, I just heard my name. So, I came in, I came back to react, to say that I've never been to the Krtkovci, that I simply had nothing to do with any such report, and I don't even know who said it because I was really at the door. I had no intention of doing trial, nor of using a pay phone here in the congregation. I was challenged by something I heard and it's completely incorrect. How come someone can be in the Khrtkovci when they've never been there? That's why I came back to say it. Afterwards, Miss Jovanovic also told a lie. I listened very well to what Vojislav Seselj said in The Hague. He didn't even mention me as a practical... I know exactly how he mentioned me, not what she says. I don't know why you do that. Why are you using... You know what, I don't move, I don't move, I don't move, I never move, and the least I'm gonna do is move in front of you and in front of the radicals. Don't, please, I didn't move either... I knew Vojislav Seselj well, maybe he was a bit of a peasant when he came to me to defend him as president of the Sociological Society, to say that those books were written by science. Maybe he was coming to move, but I'm moving, no matter what.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10625	National MP Vladan Batic, then MP to the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10626	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the discussion is out of control for no reason. I think that Mrs. Pesic was provoked by some false allegations, because it was not only read from the book as a statement of witnesses about the Krtkovci, but it was mentioned as communist waste, an associate and a traitor, along with Vuk Draskovic, etc. It's not correct for a lady, a woman, a fellow MP. All of us in time, you'll let us change our attitudes. If I tell you now that in the elections of the 1990s, Vojislav Seselj supported my candidacy as MP, it would sound incredible, but it was, it's true. If I say that I spoke at protest dinners when Vojislav Seselj was arrested for no reason, it may not answer to anyone, but it is true. Remember, Mr. Nikolic, that I fought here against the vandal attempt of some paramilitary formations to bring out the physical Tomislav Nikolic from the Assembly. It's true, regardless of the difference in attitudes. Some people were much more intimate, even relatively connected, to Vuk Draskovic, than Vesna Pesic, who, as president of the Civil League, was in the Coalition "Together" etc. She was not a member of the Communist Union, some were members of the Communist Union. She did not speak of Milosevic as the greatest criminal and traitor, some others said he was the greatest criminal and traitor. She didn't organize demonstrations outside the US Embassy to raise volunteers, but some others, to fight Iraqi vermin, etc. So I'm just saying, over time, people change their attitudes, their definitions, their beliefs. That's no reason to be so bile, for no reason... We have a common opponent, I hope we should have him, which is the current government, not now to be remembered and labelled for no reason for someone who has been a fighter for freedom and democracy all his life, and that's Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10627	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10628	Mrs. Pesic, it is not true that you are not publicly involved in the trial in The Hague. You said here from the pay phone, you ruled there was an exorcism in the Krutkovci. This is the basis of one part of the indictment against Vojislav Seselj, that he encouraged, encouraged, encouraged, encouraged Croatians from the Croats. This book proves that part of the charge should be dropped immediately. Of course, on the first condition – that there were never war conflicts in the Krtkovci, so there can be no war crimes either. But if the prosecution's already making up war crimes in countries where there's never been a war, we've prepared a whole book of evidence that there was no banishment in the Krtkovci. You don't want that book, you say you don't want to throw... I know you love the book and don't count on the money given for the book being thrown away, you only have something against the books on which Vojislav Seselj writes, it's a waste of money. I'll be willing to give you that book to read those testimonies so you don't tell the pay phone that there's been an exorcism, because I can convince you that there's been an exchange. Don't forget, a year later, or perhaps a little less, Dobrica Ćosic and Franjo Tudjman contracted an interstate agreement on the human migration of the population, with everything that happened in Hrtkovci, Kukujevci, Golubinci, Petrovaradin being placed in a legal framework between the two countries. I am prepared, Mrs. Pesic, that in collaboration with Mr. Sarovic, don't be too divided by the discussion from the pay phone, go from house to house, find me a Croat who is damaged by that exchange, and try to find at least one Serb who has received more than he has lost. The easiest thing to do now, 15 years after these events, is to talk about them. That was a hell of a hard time. The rule of Slobodan Milosevic disagreed with the exchange of population. They wanted to guard those Croats in Hrtkovci, to show that our state is ready to provide a peaceful, good life even for those whose family members went to fight in the Croatian forces, even for those who kept receipts from hundreds of thousands of marks given to finance HDZ. But there was a war. The Serbs expelled, 200,000 Serbs appeared in Serbia, and they had nowhere to live. Of course, the Croats lived in fear and were welcome to exchange property. Welcome, none was expelled, which is a lie in the indictment, none by truck, bus, transportation driven to Croatia, none of the only, no hair missing from the head, no murders. One murder, but as a felony that was explained, it happened in the Krtkovci. Don't you, as a folk MP of the Serbian Parliament, do the job that the UN tribunal, the Croatian state and others are in charge of. At least a little dignity should be given to the state you live in. This is now your country where you were in power. Mrs. Pesic, you were in power. It is the ambassadorial post of political retirement, but you consciously accepted it, you wanted that political pension. Maybe you didn't like the company at DOS, how it was appropriate for others to cover their noses and vote for DOS, but I'm begging you, don't get all confused right now. At that time of euphoria could have been said against Serbia, now don't. Serbia cannot be in a bad position to banish people, not before no one is convicted of it. He can't because of you. We're about to be saved by the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, and you're here spreading the story from the pay phone that we've been banishing people. So, feel free to banish the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and the Serbs were banishing the Croats, don't... (Vesna Pesic, from the place: It's not us.) Oh, it's no one, not "we didn't," it's no one. I don't know what you're putting your group into "we." I would like to embrace you in the entire Corps and say - no one has banished you; even though you, Mrs. Pesic, have encouraged someone to leave, I say - is not Mrs. Pesic. Here, some Croat said you were in Hrtkovci, I say - it wasn't Mrs. Pesic. No one went there to encourage in any way. Here, I'm defending you. Don't just tell me you're not educated and you don't know what you're doing with this pay phone. You're educated, I appreciate it, but the team is worse, your sin is greater. One of us may also be able to say that there was a banishment there, but when you, as the former president of the Sociological Society, say there was a banishment there, there is a science behind you. Please at least bring us the books you wrote about the banishment, from which you concluded that there was an exorcism; I will pay for your book, for me it will not be a waste of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10629	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Vesna Pesic, you may have now understood what this is really about and why I told you that perhaps for the first time, of course, not by your own free will, you have done something good for Serbia. And what did you do? You have denied the testimony of one of the Hague witnesses, the prosecution's witness against Dr. Vojislav Seselj's professor. So, I'm not the one who accused you of doing this, but was accused by a witness from the Hague prosecutor's office. It is good that you have come out for this pay phone three times, because this stenogram will also go to The Hague tribunal as evidence material, where Mrs Vesna Pesic, who is so pleased to be called in the statements of the Hague prosecutor's office, says that they all lie with a list and that she never set foot in Hrtkovci with her foot, nor does she know anything about it. But, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, I'd like to ask you another question. Obviously, you've made this little benefit a mistake, but the damage you're trying to do, and it's big, obviously with intent you're making. If you've never, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, been to the Krtkovci, how do you know someone's been expelled there? Who's being expelled from the Khrtkovci? Do you have one name that you know, that you can say now -- here, that's the one and that one? There's a lot of them on the list that's supposed to be expelled, but come on, you name it, so you know he's been expelled. You say you've never been, and you know there's been an exorcism. It shows, Mrs. Pesic, your true nature. So, you in advance, no matter what you don't know about it, but you know you're against Serbia, you know you're against Dr Vojislav Seselj and you're done with it, but this time you're wrong. That's why I have to thank you in some way. There are hundreds and thousands of testimonies, let your colleague go free, let him defend you, I can't wait to hear those arguments. She's probably never been to the Krtkovci, but I'm sure she has a lot of arguments, so maybe she'll tell us something we can use. Here, I'll read you just a few sentences, as the Serbs in Croatia have been going through since 1989 and so on. A lady, I won't read her name and last name, but the book was published, she says, "I worked in education, I taught, but in 1989 petitions against Serbs of educational workers were signed, Serbs can't teach. In 1989, I was invited to the office and the director told me - Nado, a petition was written that Serbs could not teach. They asked me -- Hope, will you tell me what you are by nationality? I said, I'm sorry, what am I supposed to say, what kind of nonsense are these now? They say we're writing a national membership in schools. I said, when you do, write a Serbian. He's asking me-- you want me to write a Serbian? I'm saying -- so what, you're not gonna write to me that I'm Hungarian when I'm not Hungarian, I'm Serbian, and you write that. The documents said that. My father, since he's known about himself, wrote with Cyrillic. And they write to me, I come to the session and I get fired automatically. "Afterwards, she managed to find another job, but she said, "In '91, I get a hundred papers on which it was written, approximately, that I am loyal, to condemn the brushes in Kamenska and Zvecjev, which is my end and my people, to give up my heart, to give money for the Zenga of my salary. I tell them - I won't sign it. They couldn't fire me in six months, but they gave me eight months. "I would not continue to owe, this is just one of the numerous testimony of Serbs expelled from Republika Srpska, Croatia, which was published in the latest book by professor Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10631	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10632	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when counterpart Natasa Jovanovic came out in some way to publicize Serbia that Dr Vojislav Seselj's book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic" was not expected to have these reactions. First of all, I don't understand why it's even responding to the title of the book when we have today in the exhibition of books with different titles, with words that are less in use than the one that bothers someone here, which is in the title of this book. I guess in a democratic world, in a world where there is no censorship, it shouldn't be a problem. I'll tell you that on Vojislav Seselj's website we got a message, about two days ago about a citizen who told us to tell Vojislav Seselj that he was resented because he called Natasa Kandic a whore, because, says man, that's the oldest profession, many women were forced to deal with this interest in feeding the family, and Natasa Kandic does it for completely different reasons. So, I don't see why Mrs. Vesna Pesic reacted when, among other things, she said she was never in the Krtkovci, perhaps some others did. I understood that she agrees with the fact that Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic was involved in the affair, because in the same part that Nemanja Sarovic read also mentioned Vesna Pesic and Natasa Kandic and other brothers. So Vesna Pesic says she wasn't safe. I can only say that this is her statement, since counterpart Sarovic said that we from the team that are helping prepare the defence of Vojislav Seselj, that we will definitely deliver this stenogram to him and that Mrs Vesna Pesic's statement will be valuable in the proof process, of course, in the liberating part, when Mrs Pesic said that she had never set foot in Hrtkovci. So, another piece of evidence for what we have explained and what Vojislav Seselj published in the previous book on the instrumentisation of Hague witnesses, here is from this pay phone, by Vesna Pesic, which Mr Batic says has been fighting for human rights ever since she knew about herself. She here publicly, clearly and loudly said that witnesses against Vojislav Seselj in The Hague are false witnesses. That's what we say, that's what Vojislav Seselj claims. We fully understand this reaction by this small parliamentary group, because the defendant's statement -- it's called the four-hour statement Vojislav Seselj, which has been postponed on the second RTS programme -- has indeed caused a storm of positive feelings among Serbian citizens. A large number of Serbian citizens, not to speak in percentages, are delighted with Vojislav Seselj's statement, defence of Vojislav Seselj. I know it doesn't suit you that precisely that night, Vojislav Seselj awakened patriotism in Serbia again. You've had a problem with that from the beginning, but that's your business. We are proud, we have always been proud to have been Serbian radicals, but after the beginning of the defence of Vojislav Seselj we are so proud to have been Serbian radicals, that Vojislav Seselj, the president, and especially since you give us the recognition that in this book we have collected the true material that Prof. Vojislav Seselj published in the book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10633	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Natasha Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10634	Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that MPs who advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure must state which provision is violated. Mr. Chairman, several SRS MPs have neither listed a member of the Rules of Procedure nor had anything to do with the procedure. I didn't go out to defend Mrs. Vesna Pesic, because there's absolutely no need for anyone to defend her. The second thing, I absolutely don't care about the books of Vojislav Seselj. That you are frustrated and you would like to defend Vojislav Seselj from this place, and if you judge Vesni Pesic, that's your business. In protest, in violation of the procedure, the LDP parliamentary group will leave the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10635	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10636	I'm reporting under Article 104 to teach Mrs. Micic. She hurt the Rules of Procedure, because when she went out for a pay phone she didn't say which member she was answering for, she just said which member was being broken by the MPs who were answering. Mrs. Micic, you should know the Rules of Procedure completely. It's not anyone's trial, it's not anyone's frustration. I would be frustrated if one of the ministers told me that he was on a private hunting ground with her, Morovic, or whatever her name is. That would be a very big frustration for me. Mrs. Micic, be frustrated first because of your private life, which is obviously not in line with your parliamentary calling. Be frustrated because of the parliamentary group you are in and who only because of Vojislav Kostunica and his media campaign managed to get into parliament, so now you Kostunicas scratch on your back what is happening to you, and we will continue to do this. We're so frustrated that we can't wait for the election to show you how frustrated people win the election. We are not happier than the rest of Serbia's citizens. The frustrations of Serbian citizens began recently, but came to a maximum when Natasa Micic came to power. When we warned you after October 5th that the flood threw the biggest scum on the surface, you might not have trusted us too much. Now when the water settles, when the clear water, when the power of the SRS is on the surface, now you can only see, when those who were in power until then, what kind of scum cast the flood. So I ask you, if this Ivan Dulic, called Oliver Dulic, would ask him to go somewhere and ask if we will have these elections, to once resolve this agony and the National Assembly and political situation in the country. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I demand that the election be called immediately. We have time to hold the election. In all this time, we will help those who are now in power to defend Kosovo and Metohija. You don't need any other help. You don't deserve any other help. Once we decide who is in the interest of the elections being held before resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status, who is in the interest of being after the status; who knows what the status of Kosovo and Metohija will be, so they want an immediate election, who knows what it will be, so they don't want an immediate election. Call on your bosses, you Tadic and you Kostunica, to come before the National Assembly to finally tell us what each of them individually knows about the situation regarding Kosovo and Metohija, to decide what we will and how we will do. Do not let this congregation enter into such agony and wait in such agony to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status. Don't. There's a lot going on. Those of you who travel to different international gatherings, as was the one we were at the other day, can clearly feel the atmosphere, feel that independence hanging in the air. Don't pretend nothing's happening. Don't, as a young woman, put a rag on your head. Shall we hold a session where we can determine how far we go to defend Kosovo and Metohija, how we behave if there is a self-proclaim, how if there is recognition of certain world powers, that we know what we are doing. Then we'll make it easy to pass laws and functions, and rights, pensions and whatever you want. Like this, it's all pointless. These disputes are the result of a difficult, chaotic political situation in the country. Now that we need unity most, someone here is pushing us into parliamentary conflicts. I see how it's mixed up, and minority parties, and DSS and DSS, we're all going into some conflict and some gambling. It is true that someone sows this seed of evil in Serbia only to welcome the unprepared solution to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. You saw the footage last night, the Shiplars are making an army. We're breaking up the army. How can it preserve Kosovo and Metohija? Let's all go out here and file a report and take responsibility for what they've done all these years. Here, I want to take responsibility for 55 years of my life, but I want the ministers, at least for these seven or eight months, as many ministers, to say what they did in the meantime. Are we in a better situation now than we were six months ago? Does the army now have more bread than she had? Does the police have better wages and better equipment? Let's not talk about employees. I don't care, I don't care, I want to sit with you all day long, there's us, God give us many mandates, we can discuss day and night with you, but if you want seriously, let us talk seriously. If you're not serious, we're not interested in fighting with these little parties here. I'm calling on DS and DSS to open a debate on these issues and any one of them here. Don't pretend it wasn't at all. Don't be in the O.R. Don't be out there in public. Don't be on TV duels and share your opinion with the radicals. Do you realize how the situation in the country is burning? How do small fires start to burn on other sides; how do foreigners become more interested in the endangered rights of this, that third, fourth? Do you see how much it cooks? Just spread us here, no matter what, hate amongst the MPs. Why should we hate each other? Every one of us is a part of the people, and the people must not be hated. Let's find out what our priorities are and talk about priorities. As far as we're concerned, here we are. You can't put us in delegations that discuss the fate of the country, you don't have to. We're waiting for you here. We gave you a blessing for the negotiations. How come you're not interested in why no one's reporting to us? How can you not find that interesting? They're turning us into Chinese, offering some Hong Kong model. How is it not interesting for you to ask someone – is it, when, who does, who approves it? Do you, MPs of the majority, know what happens on these negotiations? Do you know the outcome of these negotiations? Are you ready for any outcome? Let it be clear to you, there will be unrest in Serbia if there is independence between Kosovo and Metohija. There's gonna be a demonstration. Either you will lead them with us, for they will be directed against him who recognizes independence, or they will be directed against you if you agree. The demonstrations of citizens indignant about Kosovo and Metohija would hate to suffer as one who is opposed to them. Don't think a police officer will stand up to people who are bitter about the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10637	We're finally back on the agenda. The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today we heard the history of asylum. That was well explained by Mr Petar Jojic. But no one has wondered who will, in fact, seek asylum in this country, in a country where political, economic and economic instability exists. For seven years now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been political instability in this country of Serbia since this Dossmanian government came to power in 2001, or since 2000, on 6 October. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no case in the world today in any country such as Serbia, where one parliamentary group, the SRS, which won the largest number of parliamentary mandates, is not part or does not rule Serbia today. You are the ones who are under that censorship, the number that the SRS parliamentary group won. If you look at this economic instability, you will see how much Serbia is in debt and how much it is in charge, it may be among the most in charge of the countries in Europe. That's good in her speeches she could say by party colleague Jorvanka Tabakovic. Every third citizen is in charge today. When you look across Serbia's cities, a lot of banks are open, and I can talk about the town of Sapco, where there are more than 25, where citizens are in charge. You're saying how well people live in Serbia today, that is, how they survive. They survive because they've mortgaged all their assets so they can take credit and that they can feed their families. As for economic instability, ladies and gentlemen, you see, there is no man here who has destroyed the Serbian economy. It is former privatisation minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, who used his brokerage house to take a racket from individuals who were to be found in the tender. He probably shouldn't come to this parliament because he knows that millions of citizens are out of work. Now you say - here comes the asylum law, someone will come to this severely distressed country. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid, as my party colleague Nikola said, that this would not be one of Europe's protection belts, in which it is likely to be found, a well-being, individuals... Or, as you say, it's some kind of office they're going to be questioning (I'm going to talk about a certain member of this law later) who it is that should be asylum seekers. I'm afraid, because from day to day you're publishing in the media about you, your work, your crime, your thieving, that it's not one kind of crime, corruption, thieving, right in those asylum offices. Ladies and gentlemen, in this country, there have been various, from the bankruptcy mafia, so that I don't list everything; you know well that in all the pores of Serbia's life there is a mafia present. I'm afraid there's no money laundering here now and there's not much abuse with the trafficking of white slaves. Individuals told the speaker yesterday that this asylum law began to operate in Montenegro. He started working in Montenegro... You know that affair with Moldova and those citizens from Moldova, which included senior officials from Montenegro. I think this is the way, and the Serbian Radical Party's speakers have said so, to shut down refugee camps. On TV, you show refugee camps in which people are sick, old, unable to serve their lives. So, you've raised your hands from people like that, or you're giving them a minor aid, so I can't have the basics of living to provide for that money. It seems to me that you want these refugee camps to be shut down, so you can declare them asylum seekers, individuals even to banish or in any way oppose or commit misdemeanors to such people. What is also very important to mention, look, ladies and gentlemen, is how people from Kosovo and Metohija live today, how citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija live -- without electricity, without water, without freedom, and without basic life supplies. How could you go over a statement shown on TV about how people in Kosovo and Metohija are heating up? You've seen them heat the water; but how do they heat it when there's no electricity, no water? In prisons where they live, there's electricity and water and food, but there's no freedom. Today the greatest exodus of Serbs... The biggest prison in Europe, but without the elements of life, is right in Kosovo and Metohija. It seems that those who are in charge of the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija today don't mind, they are fine, they have good diaries, they have everything they need in life, they probably also provided asylum in another country, because this law works. You know, I've been thinking a lot about why you put this law in the process. You put it on because you expect the victory of the SRS, and many of you need to find asylum in countries, your brotherly ones, which were sponsors, which were the employers of your work. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, where are those donations coming from? In this law, I see 41 million need to be singled out to make this office work, not to mention a certain infrastructure that needs to be built, and everything else. You say here - it is necessary to isolate it from Serbia's budget. In the end, you say -- it's because we could join the EU. Everything you need to do in this country is your priority so you can join the EU. You don't mind, and surely seven-eight million people in Serbia have led to the brink of misery, precisely because of the political, economic and economic crisis that you have brought this country into. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if these bodies that need to function, related to giving some consent, are capable without a larger institution, as counterpart Petar Jojic said yesterday, without an institution like the Assembly? I'm going to leave this booth so my party colleagues can say one more thing, but I don't think you're mature for this kind of thing yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10639	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of Serbia has at least four problems related to the topic on which this law is concerned. The first problem is refugees and displaced persons from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, a problem that has been going on for 17 years and the state of Serbia does not address it adequately, and in many cases it does not solve it at all. It's not a problem just to place a evasive face, to provide him with a bed, a stove, and a portion of food. The issue of property, Mr. Buha, president of the Republika Srpska government in the refugee country, has now elaborated to the end. I can see how much you gentlemen have been paying attention to this particular problem and the question for the past seven years. The other problem is the so-called problem. displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. The question is, if this evil that is being prepared in Kosovo and Metohija happens, how many more people, Serbs, will have to come to the state of Serbia. With this previously unresolved problem, with the unresolved problem since 1999 and with displaced persons and with this new problem, the issue is how will the state of Serbia be able to deal with it. The third problem is the problem of those who left here. We've recently discussed the law that your bosses are forcing you to receive all the faces that have ever left this territory. In doing so, I mean not only Serbian citizens, but also those whose Serbia was a transit, who passed through Serbia, recorded themselves, and there it was recorded that they sought asylum and left Serbia. The other part of this problem is those who have passed through Serbia through secret channels and said they have come from Serbia -- and Serbia will have to accept them here. The fourth problem that this country will have to solve is the problem of asylum seekers to come up next day, because under the bill, the political and economic issue they seek asylum opens up the possibility of terrorists coming here and looking for political asylum and being forced by this law to accept them. The question is how many more will pass, because there will be a system of merged courts, permeable power, coming and seeking asylum in Serbia. Does Serbia have economic power? Is Serbia enough economic power to, besides its poor woman, in addition to its refugee people from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the area of Kosovo, the next day when they flock to various worlds to receive them and host them? With this law, you foresee certain rights that do not even have Serbian citizens. For example, free eight-year and high school education. How much money will you have to spare for that? I'm asking you from the ruling coalition. Is this one of the laws your bosses are forcing you to stay for another day, because paraphrasing is not also a signing, and the EU is not what you think. God forbid you can bring us to Europe at this pace, everyone will come out of it and we'll be alone again. The problems this country's been having are now emerging through the domino system. Belgium, if God so, will soon be divided into the Flames and Valons. I suggest we send them Ahtisaari, he's an expert on these things. Will you receive the Flames and Valonce in this asylum when they leave this field the next day? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Buha said, several dozen billion euros in Serbian property today are exploiting Croatia. The Serbian poor woman who created it and whose property it is still living on refugee camps and with mostly unresolved elemental needs. The only place they could solve the basic needs of home, that's the Zemun municipality. We have three refugee settlements; in one of those eleven years your distinguished experts have not given permission to connect electricity. So much for how much you care about your citizens, about your citizens, about your countrymen. When terrorists appear to you and seek political asylum, and they will seek political asylum, because politics is at stake and they do not let them drop bombs, if you adopt this law like this, you will be forced to receive them. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted almost 31 amendments. The amendments can fix this bad bill. If no amendments are adopted, the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the law, as it will not burden another misery on Serbia's poor one anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10641	Thank you. In the order of the announcement, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10642	Ladies and gentlemen, when we received the proposal for an asylum law, we thought that such a law, an asylum law, should exist in Serbia as well as in any other country. When I read in an explanation that the adoption of this law is one of the conditions for joining the European Union, it immediately became clear to me that the proposing's intentions were not clear. In fact, if the proposer had no intention of helping, above all, those who were expelled from their homes, from their centuries-long hearths from Croatia, or Republika Srpska, which is currently occupied by the Croatian Ustasha state, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Kosovo and Metohija. That my conjecture is true of the fact that you in this law did not foresee a special part concerning refugees and exiled faces, Serbs above all. We, in that sense, have submitted one of the amendments to you. I'm here from a colleague who represents the Democratic Party of Serbia and who used to say here... It is through this law and every time we have a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda that we are fully clear, through this list of MPs who are reporting on the proposal, which feudal part of the Government, or which government is interested in this law. In this case, it is the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Democratic Party of Serbia. Obviously, because the government of Bozidar Djelic and the government of Mladjan Dinkic do not participate in this debate and none of the MPs from these parliamentary groups have come forward. It is a very bad solution and it is a great evil for Serbia, which we operate with more governments. A colleague from the Democratic Party of Serbia who said she was satisfied because there are no major objections to the law by the SRS, because only we and someone from the SPS talked about the bill. It is true that we do not have any drastic objections to this law, all the objections we have made through 30 amendments we have submitted, but we have great objections to the attitude of the Serbian state towards Serbs who have been expelled, banished from its centuries-old hearths. You've heard a lot of data here from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Milorad Buha. You heard the situation in which Serbs are supposed to be, as you write here, a safe country of origin, and they do not have a safe country of origin, because Ustasha Croatia is not a safe country of origin for Serbs from Republika Srpska. We don't find that strange and controversial, because we know it and we knew it. The problem is that the state of Serbia and the competent authorities of the Serbian state are doing nothing to allow Serbs from Republika Srpska and the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina to return to their centuries-old hearths. We don't advocate continuing ethnic cleansing through these or any other laws. On the contrary, we advocate that the state of Serbia advocates the application of all those bilateral agreements concluded between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Croatia and Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not only that these are formally signed agreements and that this is the occasion for Boris Tadic to apologize for being expelled by Serbs in the actions "Blesk" and "Storm". We think that the state of Serbia needs these people, who have had to leave their homes, allow normal living conditions here, in Serbia, and that it is parallel to making it possible for them to return to their houses and their properties and to guarantee that these agreements they sign will be truly and respected. Every day we read in newspapers, and we don't need newspapers, we know, most of the MPs and most of the people in Serbia have friends, godfathers, relatives, members of a closer or wider family who have come to Serbia, in which way these Serbs are welcomed here. What counterpart Momir Markovic said, if all the municipalities in Serbia had done what the municipality of Zemun did at a time when the president was Dr Vojislav Seselj, we would no longer have those joint accommodations that are horror and horror. I've talked more than once from this place about what these collective accommodations are and what conditions that people live in. That people, ladies and gentlemen, they want to return to their homes. No one wants to be... True, Serbia is the mother of all Serbs outside Serbia and most Serbs have always experienced and experienced this way, but they expect their "mothers" to provide them in their places and places of birth, where they were always a majority people, a constituent people, to have all rights and not to be afraid of secret and public lists. You know well that no more Serb who carried a rifle in these wars, even if he was a regular soldier, a volunteer, in whatever capacity he was, a territorialist, must cross the border across the Drina and the Danube, because he does not know which border there is a secret list waiting on, and where he is on which train and from which bus he will be picked up and arrested. Such security, ladies and gentlemen, this nation does not expect you. We expect and expect really much more and more concrete. Look what's going on right now. An election campaign for parliamentary elections is under way in Croatia. I remind you that in Kosovo and Metohija there are also quasi-choices in progress and that the same person, that traitorous bastard Milorad Pupovac, who represents himself in the Croatian Parliament, urges Serbs originating in Republika Srpska to vote in these elections to ensure their legitimacy. The same Pupovac calls on Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to go to vote in Kosovo to give the so-called legitimacy. Kosovo's government and others their para-state bodies. However, it was also done by Boris Tadic in the last such elections, so it is not such a big miracle. I also remind you that the Pupovac is one of those, along with Dragoljub Micunovic and representatives of the G17 and DPS, who did not sign the proposal for a declaration, submitted by the SRS in Strasbourg in 2005, on the position of the Serb people in the Republika Srpska Krajina under the control of the United Nations. What happens next, about calling this election? The Republic's Commissioner for Refugees, a certain Mr. Dabetic, seems to me to be such a last name, is very often making some seminars for municipal refugees, so called those jobs, convinces them to do everything in their power to ensure that as many Serbs go to the polls or polling stations provided in Serbia or to ensure that they go to Croatia and vote there and promise these refugees that they will be particularly materially rewarded. I ask him now, whose money; if he's got some money, if he's got someone to secure those choices, why doesn't he give it to the refugees and when he last gave some help to the evasive faces? They can't even remember that. Then the same people in the municipalities have an NGO; they don't represent themselves, they just say they're an NGO, and it's very possible that it's the fund of this Ustasha whore, Natasa Kandic, I'm not saying, but it's possible. They call on refugees and say – how many people you ensure to go to vote in Croatia, we will provide you with cash compensation based on this number, and this cash compensation, they say from the NGO, is provided by Milorad Pupovac. All municipalities in Serbia received such calls. What's the response? For example, we have data from Zemun, where about 10,000 refugees from Republika Srpska, have reported that they will vote in these 143 elections and 27 will even travel to Croatia to vote. So these are the topics, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, which we should be seriously talking about here. It would be good if Minister Jocic were with us today, because he might also be able to answer the question of where this Dabetic money came from and with what right he is offering money to ensure that as many Serbs go there to vote. And maybe he could explain to us what an NGO Milorad Pupovac is sending to harass the municipalities of Serbia and offer them money by the number of heads that will go to Croatia to vote. Mr. Minister must have assumed that this topic would be a little easier for him, because he did not predict that in the asylum law at all he was talking about refugees and exiled persons, but I hope that he would be present when we talk about details, because one of the key amendments to the SRS is just an amendment that talks about it. So, we have no objection to the adoption of this law, but of course, we insist that the amendments to the SRS be adopted. We know what is before we offer and provide asylum to anyone, we are obliged, dear colleagues, to ensure the safe return of Serbs to the Republika Srpska Krajina, to BiH and, of course, to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10643	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the People, Alexander Jerkov, and the Messenger of Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is a handsome opportunity to correct a certain historical injustice against those people who exchanged mobile and immovable property, above all I think of Serbs and Croats who lost in that exchange. We have a foothold in a number of international conventions. We can also mention the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, we have the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms and, most importantly, we have a foothold in the 2001 Convention on Succession which, in section g, speaks of private property and acquired rights, in Article 2(2), says that every contract, i.e. transfer of mobile and immovable property, is invalid after 31. 12. In 1990, locked under pressure or threatened by force. The ideal opportunity is to remove the injustice against both Croats and Serbs. I have a concrete proposal: on behalf of the Government of the Republika Srpska in exile, I will make a request to this assembly, and this assembly should do so according to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, let municipal commissions be formed in those municipalities where such exchanges were held, let every contract be reviewed and there be a way to beat it between states, but no individual who is damaged in these exchanges should be damaged. Expect it these days, let this assembly make an adequate request, obligate the Republic of Croatia. We have an international act on every transmission that was made after 31. 12. In 1990, nothing, if it was made under pressure, and the pressure on the Serbs was done through various visions. This historic injustice will be removed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10645	According to the Rules of Procedure, the folk emissary of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10646	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament (thank you, Mr Ristic, for the lonely applause that comes from the DS ranks), today's debate offends the dignity of every decent man in this country. This assembly represents the representative body of all citizens of this country and no party, even if it has as many MPs as the SRS, has the right to conduct discrimination and to harass one woman, regardless of who she is, and thus persecute one citizen of this country, because this home is the representative home of all citizens, not the people who voted for the SRS, not Vojislav Seselj, who, because he is tried for the most serious war crimes, cannot be an MP in this parliament. If you want to organize a promotion of this book, I know you're doing it in Serbia, try to rent an O.R., organise promotions throughout Serbia. Do not promote your party president's books in the Serbian Parliament. Book promotion is one thing... I believe you don't visit many such cultural events as book promotions, but they just seem a little different. You've had enough of the hate speech, you've spread a lot of hate in this country, you've been plowing citizens at each other. Don't do that anymore, some other people came to think differently, who don't hate anyone, who thinks that all citizens are equal. Simply, such a debate in this congregation is not the place. It's a shame that the parliamentary majority is silent, that you're watching this happen and that you're not responding. If Mr. Dulic has better things to do than sit here and chair this assembly, and he is in the Assembly today, he should resign, and if he has no time to deal with the Assembly, let people who have time do so. I voted for Mr. Dulic in the election for the president of this assembly, and I am ashamed to do so. He, when elected president of the assembly, said his primary task would be to raise the reputation of the institution. This institution has fallen to the lowest branches ever today, and therefore, Mr. Dulic, shame on you. Under the obligation, actually a recommendation from the Serbian Broadcasting Agency, which is generally binding under the Broadcasting Law... The document is called the General Mandatory Instructions on the behavior of the emitter and implies the obligation to broadcast certain contents only at a time when children and young people should not follow the programme. Ladies and gentlemen of the radicals, the noun to which you describe Natasa Kandic in the title of this book is an ugly word. I'm a linguist, it's a noun, it's not a noun, it's an adjective, this other word is a noun, and I'm ashamed to say it behind a pay phone. Unlike you, I have a little decency in my life, so... It's an ugly word, it's a proscaluca, and kids, I don't know if you know it, you shouldn't be following such contents in the afternoon program. If no one in this congregation is concerned that this is the way a hack is done to one person, then let RTS react and interrupt the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10647	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10648	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that certain acts here have violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Which member? ) Article 101. Since there is an objection to the fact that I did not appoint the correct member of the Rules of Procedure, I will present to the chairman the Rules of Procedure that he finds a member to react to when this situation occurs in parliament. First of all, I have nothing against any statement, opinions, and I have nothing against any book, but the use of offensive expressions and the advertising of offensive expressions for this speaker really does not suit either parliament, nor any open civil society that advocates certain values that Serbia should take on the path of development and the path of protecting fundamental human rights. The Rules of Procedure and the basic norms of regular behavior prevent and prohibit those who are not present here from pleading in an ugly way, in a way that can harm their reputation and honor. First of all, I would like to advertise for this speaker a book called Regional Development Priority, published by the Republic Development Office. Here you can see the index of the developmental hazard of people living in the south and east of Serbia. These dark areas on the map of the Republic of Serbia say that people have no electricity, no water, no drinking water, no telephone, no roads, no railways, no school, and that these are areas of demographic discharge, there are no people there, that the average age of the population is over 65 years. I have an understanding for all those who have lost their homes because of their poor policies, who have been exiled beyond their will, whose property is threatened by having to be forced and pressed to sign contracts and leave their property. I also advocate to apply the provision of a law confirming the Agreement on Succession, Annex G of the Agreement. I believe that Serbia is obliged to do everything possible to get the citizens who have lost their hearth of protection back to their hearths. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia that its Commission for Interstate Relations and Application of the Agreement on Succession, which was established on 12 October, do indeed do its job effectively and return people to their hearths. I also ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to put pressure on the judicial authorities when citizens of other states who have lost their property under the same conditions seek protection from our courts, do not influence such proceedings and do not resolve. In many cases there are processes, both before the Trade Court and before the municipal courts, where the annex G of the Succession Agreement is sought. I must tell you that because of the non-application of the law confirming the Agreement on Sucession suffers primarily from Serbian citizens from the war-related areas of the former Yugoslavia, because there are many more vulnerable Serbs who have lost property in the former republics. For the sake of individuals and individual interests of the powerful, these actions are interrupted, those individuals who are powerful in this country over the past period are affecting the property of such a species, thus jeopardising thousands of our citizens, who, due to reciprocity, are being brought into the same unequal position before the law, before the authorities of the former republics, are now new states. So, I support all the requirements that, in principle, the reciprocity of courts are actively involved and resolved by these disputes, in accordance with the Law on Succession. It'll be good for all the evasive Serbs. There are many more vulnerable Serbs than there are certain companies from those other states that have little property here. We should not endanger 50 or 100 thousand Serbs who remain at risk without their hearth for the sake of this property and tycoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10649	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a beautiful bird - a canary, but when it poops on your head, it's unbearable, even if it's from a canary. That's right, Miss Jerkov, who I'd really hate for my sister-in-law to propose to me. To enter my house, Miss Jerkov, a man must have far more quality than you show here. The truth is that these tight jeans are trying to show you some qualities that don't matter at all for the MP, but while I was chairman of the Administrative Board, you couldn't get into the National Assembly session in those jeans, and now think whether it's okay or not. (President: Comrade Nikolic, coordinate your dictionary with the Rules of Procedure. You know, Mr. Vice President, the missus has offended me twice, as well as the MP group of the SRS, and you have not responded. First, she said that, unlike me, she was a decent person. To tell me that I'm a rude person, there's really a need not to think about anything, that there's nothing in that head to make such a statement. Furthermore, you said Vojislav Seselj was accused of the most serious war crimes, so he cannot be an MP. You don't know anything about life, miss. Vojislav Seselj is the first on our parliamentary list confirmed by the Republic Election Commission, and just because he was in The Hague has forced him to resign and one of our other MPs to be elected. I love you very much who can say anything nice, so when you get your answers out of the O.R. So, Mrs. Jerkov didn't want to say to me that I'm some kind of bird that can poop on her head, but she did say it in other words. Now, I'm sorry, I'm a Serbian radical, I speak openly and specifically, and anyone who insults me will get an answer from me the way I do, and as I can see it in the number of votes, and as other MPs of the SRS can. That you insult us here, that you say that we don't go to art promotions, that we're rude, that we're half-holy and that we feel it all to you so that you don't get out of the O.R.... I don't care if you're going to be in the O.R. or not. I think the atmosphere is more pleasant now, I don't know why, but obviously the atmosphere is at least partially more pleasant. So whenever you insult the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, you mean that we were able to respond to everyone who was in power here. We were really not afraid of anyone, nor of prison, nor of persecution, nor of losing our jobs, nor of persecuting children in schools or in exams, which never touched you, you were a fine opposition. You and Milosevic were a fine opposition, that you were accidentally struck by a pendrek or that some police officer did not look at you in the dark, and we were the opposition who suffered beatings, who was arrested, imprisoned, in order to reach October 5th, where the fine opposition became a harsh power. That is why in opposition, we represent ourselves to the citizens of Serbia as we are. Here, we are, Serbian citizens, whether you want us or not, but let's not lie to you. We are like this, we have a problem with every authority, but Serbia itself admits that it has not had good authority so far. I listened to Mr. Ristic's griefs over southern Serbia, and he's been in power for at least eight years. Let's bet that in those eight years, even more households have been shut down in southern Serbia, that even more people have no money to pay for electricity, that more children have gone abroad. Who are you complaining to now, Mr. Ristic? To me? Let me help you, make a suggestion here, but don't suggest that it be autonomous province of the low region. I'm against it. We also bear the radicals of silence, and the new Constitution, we have voted for it, which is the province of Vojvodina. We know it's a source of instability, you see it yourself now, but what? We needed the Constitution. And if you were making us some new provinces now, I'm sorry, please, stand up for the government, you may not have any influence; you may not have because of the misdemeanors you've been making here as the chairman of the Administrative Committee, your party may not appreciate you too much, but you must argue that each end of Serbia is developing evenly, to stop little Belgrade to develop south Serbia. You'll have our support. Not to work Nemanja Street every third year and go 700 million dinars for Nemanja Street, but to bring 50 villages to living conditions in that time. You'll have SRS support, but you won't have DS support. Then you come into conflict with yourself, or you will be your own, or those who would care about it as much as you do, and sitting on your chair quietly, finely, and accusing the government of something that doesn't work, it's at least unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10651	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, part of your terminology was not in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Resume session is at 15.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10652	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to allow his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Nenad Milenkovic, elected from the election list DS-Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Nenad Milenkovic. I also congratulate him on behalf of all of you. I hope it contributes to the constructive work of the Assembly. The Management Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is, on the basis of Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, by emergency procedure, the agenda of this session be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to approve the detention of Palamar Senada, deputy district attorney in Novi Pazar. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 140, there were no abstentions, no vote of 10, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON APPROVAL OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE COURT OF PALAMAR SENAD, THE PRESIDENT OF THE D.A. IN THE NEW PARK For this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a decision approving the establishment of the detention of Palamar Senada, Deputy District Attorney in Novi Pazar, who has submitted the Management Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament, according to the time you are familiar with. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does Mr Dragan Todorovic, as a proposing representative, answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, I conclude a unique search of this decision. Since we have carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule November 14, 2007 as a day for voting on the motion for a decision. It's now at 3:11 p.m. We'll approach the vote immediately. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Palamar Senada, deputy district attorney in Novi Pazar. For 157, five of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Palamar Senada, deputy district attorney in Novi Pazar. Before continuing to work on the agenda, I give my word to the vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic National Assembly, who reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10653	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Dulic, yesterday, journalists appeared with information that we could all hear through electronic media, today were written by all the daily newspapers, and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was also talking about the potential danger for our country's compatriots in Kosovo and Metohija and the facts presented to us at the Committee on Defence and Security sessions, that a terrorist Shipage Organisation named ANA is being armed to the teeth and that this is once again a major threat to the remaining Serbs living on the eternal Serbian country. Just to remind you, over the past seven years, 312 ethnically pure Serb settlements have been completely destroyed and Serbs have been expelled and have no opportunity to return there. Our countrymen, old people, women, children, who fight and who live in extremely difficult conditions, await December 10th; and not only that, but also so-called. the day of the Albanian flag and all that the Cypriot terrorists announce, and especially December 10th, as a deadline for submitting the Kosovo and Metohija negotiating troika's status report. Mr. President, on Friday, November 9th, before the end of business, I believe just as you do, but also the other vice presidents of the National Assembly, I received an envelope. When I opened it, I saw it was named after me and my last name as Vice President of the Assembly. That is why I am protesting and I am amazed by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija's behaviour. I informed Mr Tomislav Nikolic about this because he, as president of our parliamentary group, as vice president of our party, knew nothing about it, I believe other colleagues who are presidents of the parliamentary clubs and are not vice presidents of the National Assembly. Namely, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, in a memo containing the general situation in Kosovo and Metohija, has been a retrospective of what has been happening in the past seven years since KFOR and UNMIK arrived, of the loss and of the senseless murder of our countrymen, among other things, informed us of the current current situation. That was, apparently, with the intention of giving us instructions on how to behave in international contacts. As if we vice presidents of the National Assembly have exclusive rights, and this right is not, say, Mr. Shami or Mr. Milivojevic or any MP without being vice president of the National Assembly, not to mention all other MPs, Serbian radicals. Why is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija acting like this? Reporting under Articles 31 and 226. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic, I ask you to contact them immediately and tell them that what they have delivered to me in the form of a kind of report, just like you and the other vice presidents of the National Assembly, has been brought before the MPs of the National Assembly. We do nothing in secret, and we are not people who have some exclusivity, but we are equal by rights and obligations as other MPs. These reports include, therefore, I will repeat again, the current situation, with indications of these dangers written by the world's media, agencies, which, among other things, I have spoken about in the past days and today, Mr Nikolic. So it's about how to solve all the problems. I think that in this situation, when we are discussing one, I would say, the ultimate technical law, such as the asylum law, is the last moment, Mr Dulic, to invite the Serbian negotiating team and representatives of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija to come immediately to the National Assembly and report on their work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10654	Thank you. I propose that this document be multiplied and shared with the MPs, because there is no reason why MPs should not be informed of the content of this text. We're moving on. (point 4) The word has the people's messenger, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, and let the Messenger Amjad Migati be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to put the book back here, and not to risk you throwing it on the floor, where it's not a place, I'm going to take it back with me, because first of all, we're proud of the contents of the book, and in connection with the point we're talking about, and the facts in the book can be such that if we adopt the law, without any amendments we've proposed, maybe some necessary evil consequences to hit our Serb animal, our people who are still in refugee camps and who are proposed, will be offered a legal solution, where there will be a full guarantee of their rights, just when it comes to this law, the members of 44th and 45th and 46th. I wouldn't start with the details, I'd start with some principled story about this law, as well as the debate on this segment concerns such parts. In fact, if you look more closely at some comparable laws in some neighbouring countries, and I think that one neighbouring country has a law very similar to this one, you can see that a lot of the unfavorable buildup has been made. If you are already looking at the model and the mustra, which is thought to be, probably, that it is sufficiently European, generous and acceptable for those who evaluate the validity of this law, then in some elements, when writing this law, things have not been overwritten and, let me say, respected. It's no surprise to us radicals that we have yet to pass another law that we have to pass to show ourselves there as people who are zealously, almost vitally political, all in the hope that one day they'll find themselves in a society where we really are the place and where we were. Many laws passed by us and on many after the adoption and revote, in which radicals did not participate, created praises and celebrations; finally, and on the visa relief law which should be a sign that we are going to "white Schengen". Of course, no one has ever openly said that for countries that are members of the EU, who have moved from the status of "white Schengen" to regular communication, a clear message from the EU that for five years there has been no labour transit, that their use of visas... In every materially poor state they live, at least Romania and Bulgaria, by all indications worse than they live in Serbia, there will be no more visas to benefit. One of the ways that our public is often dazzled and especially young people are lurking to believe that you bring democratic and useful laws into the water for Serbia. Only 10% of Serbian citizens may have a passport, perhaps only 10% occasionally benefit. Since there was such great faith and hope for the improvement it brings us, except for the necessary need for you to prove yourself to be someone who adopted another order and struck another line on the wall as soldiers counting their days in military service. Of course, there's no more of that, no more counting the days of the week, and that's, of course, two days, two days to go on weekends to eat and bathe. Why is this about this law? Because when you bring this in, it's going to be, if it's 50-100 potential asylum seekers a year, just one investment, which is going to be big. But there will be a risk of what will actually be and who will be able to subdue under asylum in this country. What can go through and what won't go through? What will remain of refugee status, which we have failed to resolve and that these people in agreement, reciprocity, despite all apologies, despite all the attitudes that our penitent, generational government has been hiding and offering itself to Ustasha democracy since 2000? We haven't been able to solve our refugees in the right way. Finally, are we going to enable them as asylum seekers now? Do we have another trap waiting for us, that those who have left the Krtkovci in time, what this book really has a noun and adjective that I'm not ashamed of, and I think that cooking by Natasha Kandic is political whoring. It is the blackest and the hardest and it is an accident for Serbia. If it were a character trait, it would be her problem and we wouldn't discuss it, because everyone has the right to privacy, but what's done in the name of the state, which we think is going to do in the name of what we think will cause political damage to Serbia, its statements, its procedures, its benevolent relationship with the Ustasha regime, is certainly an accident for Serbia, especially at the time of the apparent efforts of Vojislav Seselj and other Serbian heroes, who are really trying to talk about the facts of that time, quasiformed through the indictment and the so-called. The defence they bring up speaks of the regularity of Serbia's, Serbian citizens and Serbian institutions. Now I'm going to go to the details of this law. If the definition of basic concepts is already given in this law, it is left out, let's say, that the refugee is not a foreigner. When you read more carefully the other explanations given in the text are that actually the refugee is the stranger that is here. The second thing, what is not fully defined in this law is the question - who can seek asylum and who cannot ask for it. There remains an indirect way of finding out which asylum will be refused as unfounded, unwarranted, etc. A solution could be found so that there is a point where a potential asylumist could be a person, a person believed to be exposed to some fundamental fear of persecution, for example, which could be different nature, political, religious, etc. Here economic reasons are deleted, and that is acceptable, because economic asylum seekers, in practice, do not go as a condition in European legislation either, it is emigration of economic nature. But it's not numbered here, because in order to find an established fear of persecution, the existence of that fear and its foundation, it would have to think about what it would be, what kind of parameters it would be. Why is it important to put it in law? Because in the first meeting with the asylum officer, the office will talk, and that's the Home Office. Regardless of the fact that we do not define exactly what kind of official the Ministry appoints as, the person who will speak to the asylum officer would have to have some basic conjecture that, before he makes a decision, as a primary, previous, initial decision, he knows, so that it would not be worse that it is written there that acts of persecution that make a person feel justified fear and does not want to return to his previous country of residence or from which he came into ours, can be physical, mental, sexual harassment, can be a political delicacy, can be poor application of laws or laws that create discrimination over racial or fullness, there can be a lot of things. That should have been counted, a team before you actually meet a clerk in your office, as a rule, with an asylum man who has little material on him. Then, when the government draws up a list of safe countries or safe third countries, it is again undefined by the criteria of what the government is using. It is possible that the Government has the right to make any specific decisions, special rights and sources of information it has, but why not put it into law. This must be a safe report by the UNHCR, both the EU and the interpretation of the legal norms of the countries to which such a list applies; whether their legal norms have the same asylum law, whether they really respect conventions on the abolition of torture, on refugees, etc., all that is otherwise normal and what is called upon by the legislator when this law is written. We leave the government's discretionary ability to put a country on the list of safe countries or safe third countries. It may be, if the government is democratically-oriented, nationalally-oriented, functioning properly, then it will not allow itself to put on such a list, say, a state of Croatia, in which the persons who are here could be returned, according to Article 54(3) (in attitude 3 something changes and deletes), and to say – here, conditions have stopped which are why refugees can have an unpleasant feeling, a sense of fear, anxiety, injustice, injustice, a sense of approaching great evil and all that. It is unclear, because in point 5, paragraph 54, point 3 is stated not to apply to point 5, because it is impossible to write in that Article point 5, and then deny its contents in the next paragraph. To make myself clear, I'll say right away. Therefore, Article 54(5) in paragraph 1 – if the person can no longer refuse the protection of his country of origin, because the circumstances in respect of which he is granted protection have ceased, then his foreign status is lifted and he returns as a foreign citizen. In the next position it stands – it can be called based on the experiences it has had. It's not just experiences. Then this point wasn't necessary, because probably anyone who escaped and suffered torture will say – that's where you bring me back, the office, the commission, the minister. Surely a normal minister wouldn't do that. There is no need to burden the law with something that, by automation in the next attitude, erases it and negates it. That's what I was about to tell you about this. I've been meaning to tell you about the reasons for denying asylum. And this is prescribed from that Croatian law to quite a bit, but not enough. I can't praise their laws, but at point 2, you stated as a reason for abolishing asylum -- that a person, a potential asylumist, committed a serious crime that is not a political character. Watch the trap, it could be said -- a crime, a felony and anything, but a crime that isn't political, so we're going to receive criminals who committed political misdemeanors, crimes of political character. We could take half of Al-Qaeda from this. Is that in our interest? So there are certain misunderstandings. I think our amendment is supposed to erase this, make this right. Why say - crime? It's a tough word for the law to get in a crime. So if it's a political crime, it can pass. If it's not political, you can't get asylum. It's a little ravingly arranged, and I think we should pay attention here and see if such inaccuracies may have more fatal consequences for the situation we find ourselves in when this law comes into force. Although it is estimated that 50 - 100 potential asylum seekers may be found in front of our legal institutions and that they are seeking asylum rights, the question is, since the legislator says in the explanation that there is no idea of the circumstances in the future, and that this number may be higher, whether it is written simply to raise financial resources, we do not know. The question arises, why so many commissions, a number of commission memberships, containing seven plus one members. Why is the President of the Commission, which is its responsibilities, obligations, etc. not more precisely defined. When it comes to certain rights given to asylum seekers, therefore, to those waiting for asylum, they are placed in the so-called ". Safe houses, not to say in any other sense, reception centres where refugees are, or these other centres, I don't know the exact term, anyway, what level of protection is available? If this is the level of protection of foreigners received by foreigners, the question is whether it is too high-level for some mass-produced asylum; perhaps this should be limited, so as to provide emergency assistance elements, emergency treatment aid elements, help elements for special types of tortures. It is not just to measure pressure, examine and treat pneumonia; if someone has been abused sexually, they need psychiatric help; if they are politically abused, some other kind of help should be needed. Maybe it should be more specific. Otherwise, foreigners have almost as a rule a complete diapazon of treatment and I'm not sure that such a health system, which doesn't give our citizens everything they need, could provide everything and, on the basis of that, be called on to do a full bypass and can do anything when you find out that it has everything. So let's see why and that item, it's not a small item, it doesn't define it more precisely. So the law has certain inaccuracies and we understand why it has to be passed. If the amendments are adopted, we can think about the position we will take on this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10656	Thank you, Professor. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Jovan Damjanovic be prepared. You're 26.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10657	I'll keep going. In the morning, I called to point out what was wrong with this bill, and the more I read it, the more I get the impression that you should pull this whole thing back. First of all, to the public, I'd like to remove some of the misunderstandings. The adoption of this law, as you said here that it is a condition for joining the European Union, forget it. You can say that to Tanja Miscevic. She'll be happy. You can tell this lady here, as her name is written, Natasha Kandic. You can do that to that Podunavac from the Faculty of Political Sciences, you can do that to these public opinion researchers. They don't believe it either, but they have to lie in public. They even have to admire ideas like this. The Serbian Radical Party does not have to share the enthusiasm for the European perspective we are offered. This law has nothing to do with the European Union and some of our conditions. The other thing, all these conventions, acts, protocols, it's embedded in our legal system. For the sake of you young people who work at the Ministry of the Interior, just to draw your attention – the Socialist Self-Government Yugoslavia was not a member of the Council of Europe and did not have any better status in the European Economic Community just for two things: because it did not have a multi-party system and because it had a police detention for three days. For everyone else, we met every possible standard. You have to know that you don't catch everything that's in the air because it can come bitterly. Furthermore, there is no word “Azil ” in the new Constitution. Since there is no word "asil", someone who wrote the Constitution found the word "house", security and protection. You'd have to change the title first, first thing. The other thing, no condition has been met for us to pass this law, I mean those essential material conditions. As a rule, asylum is the political protection of a man who came to hide and protect himself in a country, keeping the status of a stranger. But when given asylum, it is not expelled and delivered abroad, but enjoys in a good part a corpus of rights enjoyed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Even the state protects him. Twenty and a few years ago, some asylum seekers were provided, etc. Now, today, when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have little imagination, who could Serbia give political asylum to? Let's start by dividing the sides of the world. Because of persecution in the east, someone is seeking asylum in Serbia, but we have a puppet government of pro-Western forces and it would be a political shame for them to grant asylum to someone from the east. There's someone from the west who's looking for political asylum. Why? There is a great anti-globalist and is seeking political asylum in Serbia. How can this two without a rudder give him asylum, when he must immediately deliver it to the west? I haven't come yet. You're a special subject. Don't worry. So we're bringing something for nothing. Something sucks. We had one here, and now he's gone and I don't see him now; in 1992 he fled to Germany and he says, "I'm politically persecuted and my life is in danger, and no one paid attention to him, and he got asylum in Germany." Is that what happened? Yes, it is. Then, with an asylum from Germany, he could spit as much as he liked Serbia and all Serbian here. Tell me what kind of protection you're providing to someone you're setting up an asylum. Let's move on. Pay attention. I am particularly afraid of this provision of the Constitution, paragraph 57. It's said to be a stranger who is fundamentally terrified, and we count that fear was founded, of persecution for his race, half... What if, say, Bulgarians start to banish these homosexuals from Bulgaria, will you give them asylum in Serbia and fit into these democratic flows? You can be a homosexual, a junkie, but no smoking in Serbia, no smoking. How can I discuss this law if I don't look at your system of values? You don't have a system of values. On what basis would you provide asylum? Explain to me on what basis you'd be giving someone asylum. What makes you politically different from the West? You meet everything that the West, NATO and others require. Who? Benazir Buto? And give her asylum here, since she's being chased there, where are you going? How dare you give her asylum? You'll get some Al-Qaeda working right away. Why are you passing a law like this? Then you throw in shelter and some other concepts and create unfounded associations on the issue of refugee. Now I'm going to tell you what this is for. It is very difficult for the European Union and the United Nations Refugees Commissioner for the United Nations to admit for 16 years that there are refugees in Serbia, because it does not fit the story that Serbia has committed aggression, that Serbs are a people who perform ethnic cleansing. Since this cannot be proved, acts say hundreds of thousands of people, Serbs, from some other territory in Serbia, then we go to a crossover -- not refugees, are not exiles, are not expelled. What are they? Europe seems much better when it's said - an asylum man. A Serb from Knin who lives in Belgrade for 12, 15 years, he is an asylumist, so something that does not accept citizenship, double or something, will then be an asylumist. Who else would you give protection to, say, what are you politically different from? The right of asylum was particularly escalating when the world was bipolar, when there were clear borders between the two global policies, so the opponent of one policy led in his country, to protect himself from persecution and everything else, crossed over to the other side. Where's the other side now? Where is she? Just to remind you of what you cited as the reason someone is being persecuted: race, gender, language, religion, nationality or belonging to a group, or their political beliefs, etc. On what basis can you provide an asylum in Serbia? You can lead everyone under this, but most of the time, it's a crime. So, you're going to give asylum to a criminal from abroad full of money and make sure no one knows, because if they find out from the west, you've robbed Boston. Just to remind you, BiH has admitted that it has held in its territory, in some of its prisons, some of the people that America has brought, it seems to have been Poland, another third country here. There are no of these who are in the Council of Europe, who attended when the declaration was brought on the subject. A former Swiss public prosecutor conducted this procedure. BiH has admitted that their territory has been used for torture, torture. Are you going through this law to cooperate with someone in some things? Furthermore, according to Article 57(2), we need to regulate only the process of acquisition, as you say, havens, protection and security. You have gone to terms, who is a refugee, and what is a refuge, and what is an asylum, and what is an asylumr, and what is an act, and what is it? Just to remind you, article 39 regulates the entry of foreigners and stay and is said under what conditions a stranger may be expelled. This asylum thing should be an exception to that rule. A stranger under a certain regime enters us, resides in our territory and is expelled from our territory under certain conditions, and this law should exclude the application of this law on the entry and residence of foreigners. Why? There's got to be some reason. Because that stranger was persecuted. Today, there is only persecution because it is a globalist or an anti-globalist. Who's chasing? They're persecuting globalists. Why? Because anti-globalists are bothering their planetary ideas about how to conquer the world. The globalists boast that borders are no longer an obstacle, so there's a famous sentence -- it's not an obstacle to free flow of people, work, capital, ideas, information, and make everything come to mind. Who would we protect with asylum? Here's a reward question for all Serbia: who would seek asylum in Serbia? In order for someone to address us for asylum, he should have the elemental confidence that the government in Serbia is capable of slapping a table on someone, and whom these poor people are going to slap their hand in the table, who, this uninformed poor man, is going to die as uninformed, and this one just takes pictures, poses, this Boris "unearned". Who's going to ask them for protection? Where's your army? Where's your police? Do you know you have no border police, do you know that? You haven't had patrols across the border for three months, and here you demonstrate some kind of force, state, government, organized crime. No Jocic, but he'll have to come. We have a lot of amendments. We wrote the amendments to talk, you know. The law is no good to you. We play with you a little bit and say, "We have made amendments, so if you vote for our amendments, we will vote for this law." There's nothing wrong with the law. There's nothing wrong with you, from the first word to the last word, disaster from the law. If someone had written the legs, they'd have written a better law. When you copy, you can't copy. We want to show you in the discussion how naked you look, how miserable you are, how politically miserable you are, how there is nothing of you. You can't protect an ordinary citizen. We have this minister, this minister of justice, who has a facial for a hard chair, he's gone. He's seducing order in courts. Imagine, they suspended one of the court presidents because his aunt is an SRS fan, and a few days ago he was at his aunt's for coffee, and every ten years he goes to his aunt's for coffee. It's their democratic criteria. He's commenting on judicial judgments, so he can't even comment. He doesn't even know what the verdict is at the request of legal protection, and the paper boasts how he's gonna get rid of the judge, the best judge in Nis wants to get rid of it. There's no mistake, the best judge. What does he know, he's been a lawyer for a year, what does he know about law school? He's right as hell as a silk marica. There's no Bosko Ristic here. The army didn't serve either, poor man, fled to Holland when it was 1992... But it's no problem that Bosko Ristic, in his father's name, has two apartments, in his name two apartments, in his name two apartments, in his mother's name, in the name of two apartments, in the father's name, in the name of two apartments, from Herceg Novi to Nis. That's your Bosko Ristic, he wants the domination. It has nothing to do with your ideology, because you don't have ideologies, touch the system. Here's a reward question: who could Serbia provide asylum? Azil is a political category. Tell me, who can he give asylum to? There's no one on the globe. If someone cares about the economy, because of the economic situation, he flees to Western Europe, they're rich there. Serbia is not rich. If someone is politically persecuted, he goes to a country that is a power that can protect him. What kind of protection will these of ours provide? Carla del Ponte organized lunch 15 days ago in one hotel, of course, I planted everything there to film what was done and I recorded what was done, just you laugh, I filmed it. Just to remind you, two months ago you attacked my Wolf to tell lies about Vekaric and this war crimes prosecutor's office. It's not a lie. We have written evidence. The prosecution, led by Vladimir Vukcevic, is pursuing Serbia, scaring people to now provide witnesses to Carla del Ponte, now, at the end of 2007. Do we need a D.A. like that? Imagine how broken that Vukcevic planted Veselin Mrdak to sign on the call, and last time he planted that Branko Stankovic. Vladimir Vukcevic was not elected in accordance with the law, so you know. He was proposed by the government, and later the law was declared unconstitutional. That's how Serbia, six-seven years of constant destruction, is being destroyed all over the seams. Whatever the Democrats are getting hold of, count on it to be destroyed. Remember, whoever was in any deal with the Democratic Party, he died. Make a retrospective in seven years so tell me who made the profit. They all died. You remember Vidovdan in 2001, delivered Slobodan Milosevic, and after two days at Patriarch Paul for forgiveness. Veronica's quick to enter to search for sins. You can't ask for sins at all. There's got to be bills. And you've been in power too long, and you've destroyed Serbia too thoroughly. We have to save. Pull... (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Theme. Sir Milivoevich, you will never be the theme of the National Assembly. Don't put me in an awkward situation that I should be rude to the citizens. For such cases are other institutions. It's only fortunate that MPs have no doctor's confidence when they choose, so someone passes. Just to tell you, Vojislav Kostunica hasn't answered my question about the health of certain ministers yet. He answered me about one, but between the lines I see that he confirmed my... But I would be very pleased to see the belief of Dusan Petrovic, either that confidence or confidence from the university, because he is of little importance. You judges, which don't support the court's administration, remember, you're next. That's how the DS works. You're next, now smile, rub, don't touch you, remember, you're next. He won't calm down, with Bosca Ristic, until he finishes the whole job. In the judiciary, only people must be loyal to the Democratic Party, or individuals from the Democratic Party. You others keep an eye on how you're gonna take off the pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10658	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word. He's not here. The People's MP Jovan Damjanovic has the word, and the MP Radovan Radovanovic will be prepared. The remaining time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10659	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every state has its own constitution and law, and there is a Constitution and law in our country. I believe that under the Constitution and the law we have the right, all citizens, and that we cannot share citizens so that members of the national minority are not given the right and allow what the Constitution and the laws require. The Constitution is a guarantee of our state, and it is guaranteed that the Constitution and the laws are applied equally to all the peoples and national minorities living in our country. We had last year an appointed assembly of the National Council of Roma and for that electoral assembly of ballots was handed over only by Mr. Shane. When we came to surrender, they said they were no longer receiving until further notice. No matter what was scheduled, she's delayed. For a year now, the alleged extraordinary electoral assembly has not been scheduled; it was then an extraordinary electoral assembly, and given that the National Council of Roma passed the mandate four or five months ago and that the National Council is now without a mandate, so, it should be implemented. The state, to choose new people and to appoint a new Assembly of the National Council of Roma, where people to whom people to trust would be chosen in a democratic way. Why am I saying this now? I sent a request to Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, here, today is a month. Believe me, if I, as a People's MP, can't reach the minister, is it because I'm Roma, and I think it's because, or because I belong to the political party of the SRS, it's terrible. I have rights, as many as this is the state of the Serbian people, and it is ours, the state of the minority people. We respect our country and implement all our obligations in our country. Why are rights and obligations to national minorities not exercised, especially the Roma community? It's terrible, the National Council was broken on a political basis, which should not have been done. The National Council was in charge of Roma education, health care, social affairs and the Roma housing issue. The National Council is the advisory body of certain state resolutions. But the minister doesn't receive me, he promised to take me in, I called 16 times, his chief of staff called, and imagine what he said to me -- he can't, it's scheduled, we contacted the Ombudsman and that decision was made. Wait, should the Ombudsman invite the people who are concerned with this problem to talk, to invite us to discuss, to contribute to this electoral assembly? Why would the Assembly of the National Council of Roma be held now? If it is in the framework of the Constitution, which is much more favourable not only for the Roma national minority but for all national minorities, why don't we wait for it? All that is positive under the Constitution and the law in our country is for this people and for the citizens what is favourable and that is applied. Why is there now something that is not in the interest of the Roma people? Watch this, how is the electoral congregation being abused? We've had some people in Whisper... She worked at the finance revenue ministry and took down the name, last name and middle letter, and it was brought, it was accepted, and they were signatories of electricians for some electricians. I was also with a lot of electricians then, and my biographies and my class are nowhere to be found, they even said Damjanovic could not participate, not even be elected to the electoral assembly. What am I in this country, an enemy? I lost a lot because of this state of Serbia; I was on the list to remove me because I am a gypsy and I am a Serb and I did not sign for HDZ, because I defended the interests of our country, our citizens. Is this how it comes back to me now? I wonder, if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, since I find it very important that we resolve this, why are we being manipulated again by the Roma? Please, gentlemen, if we are the weakest people, both economically and socially and educationally, why don't you help us? And you educated Albanians by special, urgent procedure, so you educated them, so you gave them the state, the president, and now they take the state and kill you and my Roma, and Serbs and all other non-Albanians. What are you doing with the Roma people? This is a shame. I just want to warn you. I know the method of democracy how I should defend my people who chose me and work in the interest of the people. I am also the president of the Roma Serb Union, except that I am a member of the SRS and a MP here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10660	I suggest you, since you're talking about an issue that is important that, as always, at the end of the day, we leave these questions, and certainly there will be a minister. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10661	Mr President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry, as stated in the very explanation of the bill, this law on asylum should comply with our legislation with international obligations and current general standards, especially in the field of protection of human rights of persons who cannot or are in fear of returning to their country, or if they are without citizenship of the country in which they were resident. That is why it is of paramount importance for this law to comply with the highest international standards. The basis for granting asylum is that our Constitution has taken over from the Convention on Refugee Status, however, there is a disagreement which has been transposed as such in the proposal for this law. As the basis for granting asylum, the Convention provides that a person who is fundamentally terrified of persecution for his race, gender, language, religion and national belonging or belonging to a social group... This last basis of "social group membership" is not taken as such, but in the Constitution and in Article 2. The bill reads "a membership of a group", while in Article 6 paragraph 1. The bill says "belonging to a social group". This basis is so far in practice in many countries the most problematic, and this solution will make it even more unclear for us. Therefore, Article 2 should be added, in our opinion, a new attitude of 16, which refers to the definition of asylum; it should be added to the definition of a social group, so that the social group implies all individuals who can be characterized as members of the group, regardless of whether it exists formally, which is characteristic of what the persons who make it have innate traits or traits that the individual does not want to change, nor is it appropriate to ask to change them. We see in the draft law that there is a distinction between the last basis for asylum in Articles 2 and 6. Article 2 paragraph 7 adopted the language of the Constitution - "based on the membership of a group", and Article 6(1) of the Convention - "based on the membership of a social group". The question is, what is a social group, how is it defined as belonging to a group, and what is it that whoever wrote this bill wanted to say? It is more than obvious that lawmakers are not even aware that such a gap in the law can lead to uneven practices and great difficulties for people whose lives are threatened and who are asylum seekers. By interpreting the social group as we propose, we will allow all categories that now receive asylum based on membership of the social group and where we can seek refuge, and these are especially women victims of domestic violence, sexual minorities, less religious communities and others in a similar situation. This is the only way to truly work on the implementation of the international obligations undertaken by the Convention. Another problem is that the bill does not mention NGOs dealing with the protection of human rights and the rights of asylum seekers. They played a key partner role in countries in the world and in the region, such as Slovenia and Croatia, with state authorities responsible for border control and asylum giving. It is necessary to start with this co-operation from the very beginning, as representatives of the civil sector will be key partners of the state when the UNHCR office in the Republic of Serbia closes. Information from asylum seekers on the data of NGOs involved in providing free legal assistance will ensure a democratic and fair procedure for the whole process. Thus, Article 25(2) should be added – before applying for asylum, the foreigner will learn about his rights and obligations, in particular the right to stay, free translator, legal assistance and the right to access UNHCR or non-governmental organisation dealing with the protection of human rights and the rights of persons seeking asylum. The next problem we face when we look at this bill is that there is a possibility that because of so-called. the silence of the administration does not give the person asylum, so a special provision must be introduced which provides that unless a decision is taken by the asylum office within the time limit prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, the provision of Article 208(2) will not apply. The General Administrative Procedure Act will continue until the first-degree procedure is passed. General silence regime for the administration, which provides for Article 208(2). The general administrative procedure law must not apply to the procedure for establishing refugee status. Here it decides on questions that may sometimes mean the difference between life and death. Therefore, the lack of a solution cannot be considered a negative decision and an asylum seekers should not suffer the consequences of the possible lack of urgency of the administration. In Article 31, the title should be changed in such a way that there are reasons to deny shelter, not asylum. Also, in Article 31(2), the word "azil" should be changed to "a safe haven": the right to shelter will not be recognised by a person who enjoys protection or assistance from one of the UN institutions or agencies, except the UNHCR. The same applies to Section 3, which also needs to change the word "azil" to "a haven", and all of this should be done in order to comply with the provisions of the Asylum Law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the term "a haven" corresponding to refugee status was introduced, while the term "azil" covers something else. The reasons for the denial are set out in Article 31, relating to reasons for the denial of refugee protection, i.e. havens by constitutional terminology. The concept of refugee protection is narrower than the concept of protecting human rights. Refugee protection, or sanctuary, implies a higher standard of law. As a result, the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees established a rule that some of these protections do not deserve, which is consistently stated in the proposed article. I didn't propose these things by amendment, because I got the impression that everything I've proposed to the amendment so far has not been read by the promoters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10662	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic, in front of the LDP parliamentary club. Here, you have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dulic, I'm sorry the minister isn't here to hear our exposure, but what to do. The UN refugee status convention as its basic principle has the right to protect against persecution. This parliament, putting the asylum law on the agenda, actually wanted it to, at least, create conditions for Serbia to become a country in which, regardless of diversity, respect human rights and protect people who do not live in their countries with a life of dignity. That was precisely why the LDP MP club decided to support this law. The Republic of Serbia is a Contracting State of the UN Convention on the Status of Refugees from 1951, and an additional protocol that goes with this 1967 Convention, which obliges us to implement these Treaties into our legal system. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro, whose Serbia is a legal supervisor, committed to passing this law while joining the Council of Europe and creating conditions for this legislation to be implemented in our legal system. In this sense, the first steps were taken immediately and so in 2005, we received a law that only regulated this matter in principle, but then the agreement was that the republic of the state union, meaning Serbia-Montenegro, each of them passed laws that would specifically regulate this matter, in terms of asylum procedures, in terms of the scope of the rights and obligations of asylum seekers. Practically, we got the law, but we couldn't apply that law because it was so, in principle and principle. Montenegro passed an asylum law a year and a half ago, Serbia only brings it now and we think it is not good. We think we're getting this bill late, but we think it's very important that we get it at this point, if not sooner. What the LDP wants to point out on this occasion is that, by adopting the law, only formal conditions are created for implementing international legislation dealing with the refugee problem, but it is much more important to provide material support. Material support for the implementation of this law is provided from the budget. It is not enough just to pass the law, but to bring in different sublegal acts, it is necessary to build infrastructure. It's a good thing we have an asylum center that's recently renovated, though, with UNHCR funds, but that's good. What's very important, we need to form competent organs, we need to train professional personnel to work in these organs, we need to make different patterns, professional services. And what we need to mention to this occasion is that it costs a lot. This means that in the Republic of Serbia's budget, we must provide the means to ensure that this law does not remain a dead letter on paper, that is to say, to bring it to life. If we know what resources we have in the budget, if we know that the Republic of Serbia is a country in which, for example, the Republic of Serbia is a country. pensioners have an average pension of 200 euros... How poor we are to illustrate and the situation that, say, in Serbia now we have an epidemic of jaundice, which is otherwise a disease of the poor, poor world. It just shows how much in our country we actually have the opportunity to give our citizens a decent life; then how can we help other people who are persecuted in their countries? Information works, Serbia is a country where a small number of people come in. So a small number of people in the world recognize Serbia as a country where they can find refuge and feel safe. On the other hand, Serbia is one of the countries most people want to leave. A recent poll showed that 70 percent of young people see their future beyond the borders of our country. It's devastating and it's something that concerns the LDP parliamentary group. By supporting this law, we are in fact confirming what we have set ourselves as our primary goal when we enter this Parliament, which is to be a constructive opposition. We are aware that this law belongs to a category of laws that must be passed in order to continue negotiations on Serbia's EU accession. That is what EU experts have also said. We hereby confirm this pro-European orientation and desire for Serbia to truly be part of the EU as soon as possible. What we MPs in this House also have to do every day is develop a spirit of tolerance, which unfortunately does not exist in our country, that we create such a climate that everyone who comes into our society feels safe and desirable here. Because, you know, we've had a huge inflow of refugees in the previous period, and today they're talking about it, and you know very well how the people whose cities were being treated by refugees. They were seen as people who threatened them, as people who wanted to get their jobs, their jobs, and in all the misery we lived in, they blamed those unfortunate people for all that was happening to them. So, we need to promote the spirit of tolerance, we need to fight xenophobia, which is also very expressed in our society, and we need to be aware that the responsibility for our society being such, xenophobically, is partly borne by this Parliament, saying that everyone is against us, and that we are the best in the world. That's what we can hear every day in this House. My esteemed colleague, Mrs Vesna Pesic, indicated in the discussion yesterday that there are legal gaps in the law, so there is a need to work on this law. The LDP parliamentary group believes that following the adoption of this law, it must follow the adoption of a series of sublegal acts that will more specifically address certain concerns that exist about this law. On this occasion, as a minor failure, I would highlight the lack of criteria under which NGOs can provide legal assistance to applicants. We all know very well that NGOs, when we talk about the situation of refugees and about improving their position in Serbia, have made great efforts, so that this is something that I would draw attention to, so that there is no law on legal aid, and any indetermination leaves a greater possibility for a discretionary assessment of the executive authority. Legally established criteria would put NGOs in the same position, as they would form clear criteria under which they can provide legal assistance. We believe this flaw can be solved by sublegal acts. So, in order to create Serbia in which human rights are respected, for Serbia to be a country where the persecuted will feel safe, for Serbia to be not a country from which people go, but a country where people come in, and that the values in Serbia at least a little, even if formally, bring the values of Europe closer to the values, we LDP MPs will support this law. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10664	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to thank the gentlemen of the Ministry for a 10-minute break so that the MPs can only get acquainted with the government's position on the amendments. We'll continue our work in 10 minutes. Thank you very much. [[After break – 16:30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSING A DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (Proposers Nada Kolundžija and Milos Aligrudić, chairman of the DS and DSS-NS Parliamentary Groups) You have received proposals on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who were tabled by the presidents of DS and DSS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 160(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the promoters of these decisions want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the MPs want a word on this agenda? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the proposals of these decisions in the voting day. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF THE COURT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Veljko Kovačević, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radet, Paja Momčelov, Goran Cvetanović, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Jurovanka Tabaković, Zdravko Topalović, Sulejman Spaho, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Milovan Radovanović, Nikola Savić, Nikola Sarović, Dejan Mirović, Marina Ragoš, Elena Bozan-taljan, Amjad Migati, together Laslo Varga and Elvira Kovac, together Ivan Andrić, Milena Stanković and Nebojljilović, together Miljevović, Slavno Slavić. National MP Zarko Obradovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 16, and MPs Slobodan Maras, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Milena Stankovic, who submitted the amendments together to Articles 45, 49 and 110. It's a bill of law. You received the government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric, Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Dulic, Mr Minister, in Article 3 paragraph 5, is amended and said, on our proposal: "The judge cannot publicly express his opinion on the matter which is the subject or may be the subject of the dispute before the Constitutional Court. ''The decision that exists in the Constitutional Court Bill says that the judge cannot give his opinion publicly on the issue which is the subject of the dispute before the Constitutional Court. So we added: 'or may be subject to dispute before the Constitutional Court'. Our goal on this occasion was, when we proposed this amendment, to ensure the independence of the Constitutional Court and its effective decision, because by introducing this change, we would actually prevent the possibility of any pressure on a judge who had previously made known his position on a legal issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10667	Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10668	This amendment isn't bad, I have to tell you. It is possible that it is covered by an existing member, but in order to provide an entire complex of something called independence and independence, then we need to contain judges, spokesmans, especially justice ministers, to keep your mouth shut about current cases. Teeth language. The minister must not comment on current items. He has to keep quiet, swallowing dumplings alone in his office because he doesn't like something. This also applies to the judges of the Constitutional Court. So there's no comment. If the judge is not satisfied with the decision made by most judges, he has the right to take his own opinion. Eventually, after a few years, in their memoirs or some professional literature, the judge can explain his position, but when it's a liquid object, everyone has to keep quiet; and the media has to keep quiet, and some here, not to comment on this pay phone. It is even forbidden to comment on a judicial decision because justice is binding. Mr. Minister, you are now seducing some order in the courts. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with courts. There's been a lot of dens since 2001, especially when legal interns came, the secretaries of the cooperatives. Remember, you pick a man here in the morning as a judge, pick him out in the afternoon as president of the court. For two or three years, we barely discussed what was going on. I remember Valyev, not talking any further. He knows better than anyone. He's got an accurate record of where all that crap was in the courts. Our minister has been raped. He'll tell the judges how to work. By the way, he doesn't have much of a court experience, but he found it appropriate to conduct. It is easy for him to conduct because the Supreme Court should become something new, because by some mistake in the Constitutional Law two members (or one, it does not matter), where all judges go to reelection. The judges now have to be quite well quoted by the minister, because in this distribution, the Democratic Party has won the judiciary, so that the minister comments on the judicial tribunals, the minister can make the terms of the Supreme Court president, because when the Supreme Court president was elected, the minister and his party were against the candidate. That candidate, in order to stay there, must comply with the minister's demands. The minister's pushing some law enforcement claim, and then he doesn't know how to interpret the verdict at the request of law enforcement. The application for the protection of legality shall state seven reasons. The Supreme Court was considering it. One, and that point 11, on the grounds, is placed on a first-degree court. Three reasons the prosecutors were dismissed, and three reasons concern the first-degree court. But that's no reason for the minister to demonstrate his power. On whom? Over the best judge. The best judge in Nis will get hurt because of this minister, and a pregnant woman. For Bosk's sake, we know why. Now he's going to exorcise justice. Mr. Minister, what about my case that went out in the municipal court? What about the President of the Court at that time and the judge who tried, and what about the judges of the District Court, who and how they contributed to obsolescence? What is it, Mr. Minister, with all the courts in Serbia since 2001, where are the outdated cases in court? Do you want to initiate a procedure for all these judges to be resolved? Let's go chronologically and see what's out of date in 2001, where the judges are, so when we clear from 2001, let's move on to 2002, then 2003, 2004, 2005, and get to 2007. Whose interests are yours, Mr Petrovic? Who authorized you to comment on the verdict? Based on what law? What member? Who gave you the right to comment? Do you know what will happen if I start the same way you do that I do to comment on the verdicts? Do you want me to start commenting here every day or take this new one, which has not yet been delivered for the murder of Zoran Djindjic? Do you want me to comment on those verdicts? You want me to go out every day and read two pages where judge nata made a mistake? Should I call on that Article 368 item 1 point 11? And that the explanation doesn't match the record and what anyone said. If you want, say it, I'm ready. Not just me, there's a lot of them to comment on all the verdicts. Do you want us to pass judgments on all cases that are out of date or should I call from this pay phone all the lawyers who are in court proceedings, in court, in the office and in the judge's drawer, out-of-date cases? Do you know, Mr. Petrovic, of whom the president of this council was given his apartment, Novica Pekovic? From Dafina. You don't mind? Bought from Dafina. Did you know he's been to Vranj three times to urinate for that case? You don't know? Is it possible for you to know things from me? You find out from me? It is not that everything is basically the fact that Boris Tadic is disgusted by the Serbian Orthodox Church; they say, he was abandoned by his wife and had to be replaced, so now the SPC is being consecrated. We had a judge who repeatedly commented on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, Slobodan Vučetic. Here he is now, and he's commenting on something part-time, expert, G17 plus, plus, plus. He's always commenting on something. How about a judge who judges in the Constitutional Court, before expressing his position, to have someone's opinion to some media? There's a lot of media chasing, here, someone met me yesterday and asked me about something, and I said, it's a judicial verdict, as far as I think it is, it's not, and I wouldn't have anything to comment on, and even if she was just, I wouldn't comment on her. I always want to comment on what comes from the side and what attacks the court and what eats the court. That's what I want to comment on. He's sorry there's no evidence, otherwise he'd have done a lot more condemning and sentenceing himself more severely. Do you remember this guy? No one defended him here when he didn't pass for prosecutor, remember, no one wanted to defend him, not even those of the DSS who suggested him, which was three years ago. He didn't mind taking an impious job with Vukcevic. Do you know, Mr. Petrovic, that you have a war crimes prosecutor who has been illegally elected? He was elected under a law that was later found to be unconstitutional. Isn't that right, Mr. Battice? The Constitutional Court said those provisions were unconstitutional. How can an illegally elected prosecutor make legitimate and legal moves? Yeah, if it's in front and behind it, Carla del Ponte. These three days they're there in The Hague, he's out there, and this guy's dead. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, they're listening to people, they're threatening, they're raping. You've done a lot of rape. You're raptors without cover. What are you building your strength on? What argument? On what instruments? What bars? You only have strong will and nothing more. That will has been crowning since 2001. Do you remember, in 2001, you didn't want to talk to anyone, and in 2003, during your state of emergency, I kept you here so you wouldn't die of fear and torment. Everything's cooled down, man. Do you think anyone can make mistakes all his life at the expense of illusions and imaginary thinking? He can't. Mr. Petrovic, tell me how you think you work as a minister. If you comment again or lead the persecution, as you've already begun, some president of the court is suspended in no time. Why? Because his auntie's an SRS fan, and he's been drinking coffee at his aunt's, and every 16 years he's at his aunt's. That's the criteria they apply. Kostunica let it all happen. He says, "I've got it under control; I've got these security, I've got the police, they're not gonna do anything." He doesn't know what they're like. They'll throw him out of the assembly again, as I see it. The amendment is not bad, it helps to understand the true role of the Constitutional Court judge, and I hope another amendment will be adopted, Mr Petrovic, because you have adopted a little amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10669	Thank you. The word has the minister of justice, Mr Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10670	Of course, one of the most important issues in this law is the issue of the independence of the Constitutional Court and the establishment of instruments and institutes so that this independence is real and as strong as possible. I fully share the views expressed regarding this legal provision that the proposing's intention was so. What's the problem from the point of view of the legislator and from my point of view, as a representative of the government here today, is that such a provision, unfortunately, is not sufficiently defined and would create major problems in application. This amended article opens up the possibility of very different interpretations of what could all be subject to an assessment of constitutionality and legality. That is, therefore, the reason why the Government did not accept this amendment. As for what Mr Krasic was talking about, therefore, I did not comment on judicial decisions, nor will I do so in the future. The Minister of Justice, under our Law on the Ministry, according to the Constitution, according to the Law on Courts, has the obligation to supervise within a very clearly defined scope. So, I am obliged to make sure that the holders of the judicial functions are safe to perform their duties. I'm in the business of law and constitution. I can say here that every case where I find that there was not enough security in the work of the holders of judicial functions, and only in the way the law prescribes, which is by making the Justice Department look at all the files and all that is allowed to be controlled by the Justice Department... So, after such supervisory procedures, which are prescribed by law and provided for by the Constitution and which do not insult or touch the independence of the judiciary, I will find that there is a lack of awareness and I believe that the holder of the judicial function should be relieved, I will ask that it be done by whoever is in charge of the Constitution and the law. It is jurisdictional that the Grand Supreme Court, which determines whether or not there are grounds for resolution, exists or does not have the responsibility of judges, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors. If the Greater Personality in any of these cases finds that there are reasons for the resolution, it will make such a decision, which will send the decision to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss it and to make a final decision here. I did it in two cases. In one case, I asked for the permission of three judges, i.e. to be precise, two judges of the municipal court in Novi Sad and one judge of the District Court in Novi Sad, who acted in one case that was outdated, and also, the president of that court. I asked for the discharge of the three Supreme Court judges. The big personal council will make a decision and when that decision is announced, I, like you, will find out how it decided. I've been looking, too, in one case which is... That is, in two cases, and one of the judges is the court's case, because the Justice Department's supervision found that the procedure was not conducted in a safe way, that, according to the report, the lack of awareness has led to an obscenity. Without any desire, will or right to interfere in the essence of judgments, because I have neither done it nor done it, nor have I the right to do it, where there is a unconsciousness, which consists of an insufficient number of scheduled searches, in making decisions, although according to the Justice Ministry's supervisory authorities' findings, there are conditions, I am obliged to do what I do. I'm not making a decision, I'm just asking that decision to be made. Mr Krasic knows that, I assume he knows a large number of MPs here. In the essence of court cases, judicial and unlawful, only the Supreme Court of Serbia's Supervisory Board has the right to interfere in this country's decisions, and in regular proceedings, according to regular legal remedies, second-degree courts can be involved in the decisions of first-degree courts, according to extraordinary legal remedies - the Supreme Court. That's how it is, and I'll fight for it. We all voted together in the new Constitution and by this Constitution, and Mr Krasic voted for it, the Supreme Casation Court was established and appeals courts were established. I am convinced that very soon we will all be able to discuss these laws, the law that needs to be established by the high council of the judiciary, the state's chief prosecutors, the law, the new one, the judges, the law on the courts, and that we will bring together the necessary legal acts in this House that will be established by the judicial system in Serbia in accordance with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10671	I thank Minister Dusan Petrovic. The Republic was requested by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10672	Mr. Petrovic has made a fine story, which is completely different from the truth. Mr. Petrovic, I have the Supreme Court's verdict at the request of legal protection. Obsolescence took place in the Municipality court in Vranj, not Nis, and you know it well. First thing. The other thing, Mr. Petrovic, your kind of supervision from the ministry is only localized to something called the judicial administration and can't go any further; whether the subject is well seduced, whether the searches, hearings are scheduled according to the law, and that's the end. But it wasn't established here, Mr. Petrovic. It hasn't been established. The subject is precisely because of these shortcomings which you have cited moved from Vranja to Nis and assigned to the best judge to decide, in accordance with the law, but you are not satisfied. There's no Bosko Ristic... Because that judge bit him in one case, and now he's lighting himself to the entire court. He abused you, and then you turned it all around and picked it up on the talambas, "Blic" - a series of articles. And it was found to be an injury, both guilty and damaged. Do you have a verdict? Is it written to you in the verdict that injures which member, which the media has made, is a mistake in the verdict. Now, the minister knows there's a mistake in the verdict. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: You are wrong. I'm wrong? When did I make a mistake, Mr. Petrovich? When I made that mistake, Mr. Petrovich, please explain. One supervisory board, formed by Zoran Stojkovic, is, of course, in accordance with the law, when the DSS did not know how to stop the citizens' objections due to the ineffectiveness of the court, because of the failure of the hearing, because of false decisions and so on. This is where the Supreme Court Supervisory Board was invented, so there was a judge, a poor man, who had to deal with millions of cases. And the surveillance at the Ministry is based only on the control of the judicial administration. Mr. Petrovic, were you in Nis, in the late hours, at six o'clock in the evening, why didn't you take my case that was outdated? You know that, since you control the judiciary, why do you ask me when? You sent your glasses from the Ministry at five o'clock at night, by seven o'clock, and you came, took a specific item. Why didn't you take my case, so let's see which judge made it possible for my criminal case to go out against the press? I don't sue the press anymore. Why? The DS is watching them. How? I don't want to embarrass myself anymore, I don't want to sue anyone anymore. My items are all outdated. My case was, say, before that; why didn't you take this case, so you could ask the judge how old the case was, how held up in the District Court, what was the President of the District Court doing, that's that pensioner Boskova, how long was she held in the municipal court, that's that drunkard Boskova? Why didn't you discuss it when you were so objective?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10673	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10674	Mr. Krasic, obviously we have a misunderstanding about the facts. Here you have shown, I assume, the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which was made under the Law on the Protection of Legality by the Republic prosecutor Mr Radovanovic. By law, he's authorized to do so. That decision applies to one or two, I don't know exactly how many decisions in the case of Pahomia, and those decisions have been legally ruled and there you are absolutely right. I didn't say a word, nor will I say a word about that thing. The Department of Justice's supervision dealt with two other cases, where also the bishop of Pahomia was blamed. Those other two items are obsolete. That was the department of the Justice Department, which was supervised. So, according to the law of the Justice Department, it determines whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. If hearings in criminal, civil matters are, therefore, in litigation, out-of-party, executive, etc., that I do not burden you, do not require enough frequency if there are any other facts that indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if the consequences arise for Serbian citizens who have the right to receive adequate judicial protection, then there may be doubts that the conditions for determining the responsibility of judges, prosecutors or deputy prosecutors have arisen. So, Mr. Krasic, not at all, not in any form, what you're talking about was not the subject of judicial oversight, nor could it be. Whether this will be the case with the Supreme Court Supervisory Board or not, I don't know, I don't know, I can't know, I can't ask, it's not my job, but here, I'll tell you one more time, I asked to determine how many outdated cases there are from 1 January 2002 to 1 July 2007, because then I issued a warrant to do it. I had to find a moment in time. I thought five years was the right time. Now I think I was wrong, because of these cases of yours, I should have asked for it since January 1, 2001, but well, I'm also going to ask for it to be determined. In this country, about 4,000 criminal cases have become obsolete in this period. It's a shame for one country, it's a disgrace for the Serbian state, a shame for anyone who does public work, and it's inadmissible. That's what I said, that's what I'm saying right now, and that's what I'm gonna fight. I can have support and I can have opponents. I'm willing to speak to my opponents on an argument basis, but it's inadmissible that in a civilized country, in a country that has a state tradition, it has a legal tradition, a legal tradition, this number of criminal cases become obsolete, it's inadmissible because it's destroying the interests of the citizens of this country. So, and you're absolutely right, Mr. Krasic, I intend to, within my jurisdiction, fight this against the Constitution and the law. I call upon all of you, because I believe that this is our common interest, to participate in this fight, because we can and must have a more effective judiciary than we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10675	I thank Minister Petrovic. Replica was again sought by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10676	Now the public can best understand who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth. Mr Petrovic, the application for the protection of legality was not filed by Slobodan Radovanovic, his deputy, Gordana Stojanovic-Milosevic, submitted. In the application for the protection of legality in 20 places, she did not know to write - the Municipality court in Vranje, but - in Valjevo. The decision was legal last year. In April of this year, when they came to power, they made a request for protection of legality and submitted it on 17 September. They scheduled a session for October 12th, and the 11th decision was dictated by Bosnia and Herzegovina's TV. Mr. Petrovic, I'm sure when you read it, it wasn't hard to understand. According to the Supreme Court's decision, the case was moved in April 2005; it was on the Justice Committee, right, Mr. Obradovic, because it was a big dispute, because the media had already ruled. These two items you're talking about in Vranj are obsolete, not in Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10677	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Todorovic, then MP Vladan Batic, then MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the amendment proposed is good and that you should reconsider and accept this amendment, regardless of what may seem to be undefined and that the definition "or may be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court" is saying that you can no longer determine what may be the dispute before the Constitutional Court. However, if you take the Constitution, then it is clear to you that the Constitution determines the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and when it is said "or may be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court" is meant by what is set out in the Constitution. What's this supposed to be about? Because it is a practice that the opinion of the Constitutional Court is no longer an expert opinion, but a political opinion, but a abuse of judges who have come to the position of the Constitutional Court for political reasons, political trade, etc. And they do the deeds of those who set them there. Unfortunately, we're telling you this because of practice, because of what's been happening to us. I have no doubt in advance in my mind, and I can't say that you wanted the Constitutional Court to be dependent in advance. I believe that you wanted him to be independent, but all you did, among other things, was the debate in the Serbian Parliament already showed, based on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Assembly, we are just waiting to see how you will vote on the proposed candidates proposed by the Assembly, saying that we will get a court-dependent court, a court that will depend on those who have proposed them. That's the problem. Just remember the former President of the Constitutional Court. He didn't take himself off the television, the newspapers, interpreting everything and everything. He is the judge who scheduled the session and suspended the Law on the assistance of the families of The Hague indictees, and he has not even entered into force. These are the things that lead the SRS to question, possibly, the adoption of this amendment, because the Constitution sets out what can be the subject matter of the Constitutional Court and then the judges of the Constitutional Court do not have the right to plead. They're not political personalities. They're not adversaries in public life to determine. Be careful, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court - The Constitutional Court decides on a ban on the work of a political party, trade union organisations, etc. A campaign was launched, eventually, to ban some political parties; judges of the Constitutional Court were consulted to find a foothold, and they began to comment. For what reason? Even theoretical reasons. But in some ways they can already determine or comply with the opinions of those who already state that they should make a decision if the case appears before the Constitutional Court. What's that for? To form public opinion. That's familiar. So, you go first to form public opinion, start a campaign in the media, then it is complemented by the opinions of judges, various experts, as usual, ends with the opinion of the Constitutional Court judges who comment on it, then it is proposed, or it is sent to the Constitutional Court and the judges already have an opinion on it. Therefore, this amendment should be adopted and it should be prohibited for judges to declare themselves before the Constitutional Court, because the Constitution determines what everything can be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10679	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and let MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10680	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think the amendment is very well argued, but enough has already been said about the content of the amendments and I don't see why a rational, comprehensive amendment has not been accepted. Only a few amendments were accepted, where the government needed a hat and a hand to accept the good intentions of MPs, many of whom are more legal experts than those who wrote this very bad text of the Constitutional Court law. However, this spite that prevails in all seems to have taken a toll here when it comes to constitutional court law. Mr. Chairman, you didn't understand me, I've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, but anyway, we still have seven or eight minutes left, so I'm going to use this time, because the minister mentioned the arguments that guide him in submitting a proposal, an initiative to resolve individual judges. Thank God the minister has that authority today. When, according to former law, as the justice minister at the time in the first government of Zoran Djindjic in 2001, I had only the possibility of launching the initiative, there were then trees and stones that were interfering in the work of an independent judiciary, so my initiative to resolve about 220 judges, who participated in election thefts, in mounted political processes, in corruption affairs or whose results were tragically poor, of course, more quickly and better rejected. But, as the minister mentioned, it must be taken care of, among other things, of the damage to the interests of Serbian citizens, here, Mr. Minister, of a Supreme Court ruling that has a flagrant effect on the violation of the interests of Serbian citizens. The consequences of such a verdict are that basic life supplies in Serbia are the most expensive in Southeast Europe. Now you're going to ask the question - what do life supplies have to do with this verdict? They have, because this verdict legalises the monopoly in Serbia, and since it is a legalised monopoly in Serbia, then life supplies in Serbia, once said to be able to feed half of Europe, are the most expensive in this part of Europe. What's this about, Mr. Minister? The Competition Protection Commission has reached a solution to ban the concentration of ‘Horizon C’ and ‘C market’ in order to prevent the creation of a monopoly. The company "Delta" sues the Supreme Court and initiates the administrative dispute. It's, in itself, normal. But it's not normal, Mr. Minister, what he did to our shame, the Law School in Belgrade. Acting on request, I don't know if you've seen it in your practice, Delta Company, Law School has done a study on legal aspects. So, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade... I know, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you're not interested in this because you voted yesterday that there was no pressure on the Competition Protection Commission, and the President of the Commission is about to cry and cry out loud. Okay, you don't have to listen. You might have learned something more, but apparently, someone feels pleasure in ignorance. So, law school is doing legal art. You know there's one judge who's been laughed at, famous, and even now a lawyer, who, as an investigative judge, has ordered legal expertise. So, Law School, to our shame and shame, we graduates, mastered and doctored at that university, at the request of a company, are making a study. It would be possible not to be used in court proceedings, but the Faculty of Law here deals, and insults the Competition Commission, deals with the case, and it did not do so by the court, asking that warlocks, even such a virtual legal skill, but a private firm. I'm sorry and I'm ashamed that some of our fellow Members for European and democratic Serbia and some of our former colleagues have signed this study, but we are coming to what is the topic for you, Mr. Minister. The study, which was not even delivered in the service in which the administrative dispute, on the other hand, was initiated in this case by the Board of Competition, was valorised by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in its verdict respects the suit, and the crown argument is the legal interpretation of the Faculty of Law. Now imagine what kind of country we live in when the Supreme Court judges do something like this. There's no court, no justice, no justice, but that's why there's a monopoly, and that's why there's injuries to the most vital and existential interests of the citizens of this country. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, to consider whether an orderly procedure can be initiated against those who act on orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10681	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. The word has the People's MP Petar Cvetkovic, please the MPs for a little silence, then the MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the throwaway, Mr. Minister, I will limit myself to the proposed amendment to Article 3, paragraph 5. The draft law provides that the judge cannot publicly state his opinion on the subject, and the amendment adds - or may be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court. This amendment is not to be accepted, but is extremely dangerous if its adoption occurs. Exactly, the essence of the whole function of the Constitutional Court and the whole law is led to absurdity. This is why: precisely because (and there is the right view of the Government) in advance cannot know what legal situation or what issue will be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court. As you know, the dispute before the Constitutional Court is triggered by an act that can be filed by a person who thinks that someone is rightly injured; it can trigger a dispute, or it can not run. How will the judge know in his public appearance, and what is the authority that will assess whether any legal situation or attitude can be the subject of the dispute? Potentially, any legal situation may be the subject of a hearing before the Constitutional Court. This also puts the Constitutional Court judges in an extremely difficult position. The adoption of this amendment would practically put the Constitutional Court judges in a position not to make any public statements to give, about anything. Better to ban public advances, but then say so and give such an amendment that would read – a judge of the Constitutional Court is prohibited from public appearance. Therefore, given that there has been much more discussion about the second rather than the amendment, I have tried to say very briefly that for these reasons, which is also the opinion of the Government, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10683	I thank Peter Cvetkovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10684	Mr. Chairman, I must say that the SPS parliamentary group finds this amendment to make sense. It makes sense because we are who we are, the state of wonder. If we hadn't experienced (and survived, thank God) what's been going on since 2001, we SPS MPs would say that such an amendment shouldn't have been accepted and that maybe it doesn't make sense. Unfortunately, everything we've experienced since 2001 shows that this amendment makes sense. We understand the promoter, and we support the amendment, because it has shown a dozen times that whenever one of the people who had the intention to appeal to the Constitutional Court announced it, it immediately happened that same evening in the central daily of the Constitutional Court judges said – well, it can't, it's that and so on. Judges of the Constitutional Court have been commenting on the decisions on the terms of the MPs for months before... No matter how many months, a year and four months have lasted, it seems to me, that story about the mandate of the MPs and whether the MP is the owner of the mandate or whether that right belongs to the parliamentary group, or to a political party whose list has been elected. It happened by who knows how many times that the Constitutional Court judges come out to make their comments, of course in one-on-one conversations, where only he talks and the other listens, and where no one can resist that attitude. And central television has a role to play, not accidentally called national, and then in public, a certain kind of public opinion is created. We saw that some judges abused the position of the Constitutional Court judge and interpreted the views or cases as fitting to the interests of the party. It was a practice of the Constitutional Court. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines what can be the subject of the Constitutional Court... Well, of course he won't comment on something, or that he can comment on what has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court, here is the point that he doesn't answer before the Constitutional Court discusses it, and the practice has shown that he has everything, and that he simply doesn't be in a situation to be an interpreter of the case, or an interpreter of a court ruling. I think fellow MPs who spoke in favour of accepting this amendment and mentioning several cases. I don't think there's any need for me to point that out, but I'm telling you one more time, what we've seen in these years of democracy has convinced us that some judges have been doing, unfortunately, unfairly their work and put themselves in the service of a particular policy. So, even before it was filed, before the case was held before the Constitutional Court, during the Constitutional Court's work, without speaking afterwards, not only did they comment, but they were interpreters of the political majority's views on the case before the Constitutional Court. Can such a solution in the Constitution stand in the way of that? I hope so, but we'll see what it looks like in practice. Teached by what was, and unfortunately, unconvinced that something like that can't happen, we think this amendment makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10685	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Vladan Batic, and then the People's Messenger, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to say very briefly, I missed the moment I answered my word, this article 200. I asked a question a few days ago, not in your direct jurisdiction, but it is about both the subject and this amendment. It concerns whether it is true that the former President of the Constitutional Court continues to receive the salary of the Constitutional Court president of nearly 230,000 dinars, at a time when judicial employees strike for poor and miserable wages. So, I'm not saying anything, I'm just asking if it's true or not, and it's about this amendment, because the former President of the Constitutional Court, and while he was president, he kept commenting on everything that could be commented. Perhaps these subsequent comments go into some sort of ex post internship, which is why it continues to receive that 230,000 dinar astronomical salary afterwards. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny. The other thing, Mr. Minister, will not be resolved any of the judges whose resolution you have proposed. Here, I'm giving you this information in advance. Because false solidarity at the level of the court, especially at the level of the Supreme Court, will affect that it will say - cannot be resolved by a judge who has even made a mistake in an individual case or in an individual case, it should be a series of errors in several cases and more situations. It'll all end with a warning. They were alive, and they saw it. Mr. Minister, that will be the decision of the Great Personal Council, but my appeal is to move quickly into the re-election of judges in Serbia, because it is the only way to separate the grain from the weeds, and it is also about what I have previously brought to this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10687	The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10688	I am reporting on the basis of article 101 and comment on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why it cannot accept this amendment. The government says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the Constitutional Court decides on the matter of the dispute only after the proceedings have been initiated, so the Constitutional Court judge cannot know in advance what may be the case before the Constitutional Court, so we are therefore of the opinion that the proposed amendment should not be accepted. This argument, at the very least, offends the intelligence of all written people in this country, especially lawyers. This is simply not true, because of Article 167. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is precisely the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges know exactly what may be the case before the Constitutional Court and each of these jurisdictions... Through the Constitution or through the laws in accordance with the Constitution (not yet some, but it will be), the time limit in which the relevant procedure is initiated before the Constitutional Court. This is the deadline within which the Constitutional Court judge cannot and must not comment. We've had a very current situation these days -- calling elections in Belgrade. So, if we had the Constitutional Court, we would have filed a constitutional court long ago to review Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic's decision as to why he did not call the elections in the city of Belgrade and was under obligation. It was one of the situations that I represent as an example where every judge of the Constitutional Court, if we had a Constitutional Court, knew that it would be a topic in the Constitutional Court and that he shouldn't talk about it. Legal practice, in a way, concerns the Constitutional Court's decision. What is judged by the Constitutional Court obliges everyone and it becomes legal practice in a certain way. So there's no need... Someone here said the Constitutional Court judges can't comment on anything. In fact, no, they have nothing to comment on. They get a request, they settle on request. The Constitutional Court's decision is announced, the argument is published, and there's nothing to tell us now why they decided to do this, and it's not like this, not even after the decision was made, let alone before that. By the time I heard from you, Mr. Minister, here's a question for you, since you said you filed a motion to discharge two judges or three or four judges in two cases, for unconscious work. I'm asking you, can you swear that these are the only two cases in our justice system where the judges acted unconsciously? If they are, we support you in such a decision. If not, if you won't now, one day you'll have to explain why these very two objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10689	The word has the People's MP Srdjan Shin, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Is that what we agreed? So, we agreed that parliamentary matters go in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10690	I'd like the minister to explain one thing to us. In the final position of Article 3, I am talking about the bill that you are now representing here: "The judge cannot give his opinion publicly on the issue of the dispute before the Constitutional Court". What does that mean? So, after the proceedings are closed before the Constitutional Court, can the judges speak in public or not? I need you to answer that question first and give me an interpretation, so that we can have a quality discussion, because there are different interpretations, about what you're talking about and about something else. That's all I want, so that you don't interpret the Assembly after, because obviously the formulation isn't 100% accurate. Someone can say this: the issue which is the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court, when the proceedings are closed, is no longer the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court, because there is a final decision, whether this or that. I'm only interested in the interpretation, whether you consider the subject matter to be disputed before the Constitutional Court until the end of the proceedings or even after the end of the proceedings, a certain solution that has been explained or decided, whether or not it is considered or not, so that we can talk later about both my amendment and what my colleague was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10691	Anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word has a Serbian government minister, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10692	The point of this member is to remove from our public life one, as the law here has said, a way that should not be allowed in the future. Those who have great power in their own hands, which will be judges of the Constitutional Court, great power because they have the right and the obligation to assess constitutionality, legality and to decide on all other issues put in their jurisdiction, show and exhaust their power through making these decisions. These decisions, in the largest number of cases, whenever it comes to constitutionality and legality of the law, on the one hand, sublegal acts, are published, and this concludes the possibility that the Constitutional Court judge has, because he, by his verdict and by his decision, is expressing his definitive position. The court says that judges can vote differently, and this is governed by the rules of procedure of what is done and how is done. So, judges, if this law comes into force, will not be allowed to make their views public. When I'm out and, of course, I'm not going to take this thing anymore, it's always a problem when one norm is not determined enough, because judges of the Constitutional Court by definition should be people who are able to contribute, in different situations, to resolve certain social dilemmas and certain topics that appear on the agenda. If we adopt this amendment concerning any question that may be at any time, at any time, the subject of evaluation, of course in accordance with the Constitution, these are laws, these are sublegal acts, which means that we would prevent the judges of the Constitutional Court from participating in public debates, which could be a political position. The government believes that this is not overall, that it is good that when the essential laws of the Constitutional Court judge are passed, they have the opportunity to state their opinion, because it contributes to the quality of such legal projects. This is one of the topics where there can be completely legitimately different positions. The government of the Republic of Serbia took its position with the proposal it put in place. I really want to convince the public and, first of all, the MPs that are far from being involved with any ink, this is one point of view which holds that it has found the right measure to prevent certain phenomena that we have had going on so far, and to open up the possibility that participants in such important procedures, such as the procedure before the Constitutional Court, may, in certain situations, be able to express their views.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10693	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10694	Article 101. Minister, I think you're misreading our remarks. This is about the practice that's been getting so old and not helping, it's hurting the situation that we're in. Here, to conduct a simple survey among Serbian citizens, I believe, of those 10 you would ask if Slobodan Vučetic is still the judge of the Constitutional Court at least nine would say he is. For what? Because he's commenting on everything, from Guca to Exit. There's no topic he's not an expert on that he doesn't comment on. We are in the position that judges of the Constitutional Court should deal exclusively with cases that come to the Constitutional Court. They can deal with theory, they can participate in expert debates, but when it comes to current political dilemmas, then the judges of the Constitutional Court absolutely shouldn't speak of their views. We brought you a problem that is still current. It's the city of Belgrade. Not only is the election being called mayor, because here is the basic reason why elections are not called for confidence and integrity that they should not be called, because they will be called within less than six months. As is the election of the speaker of the assembly, the vice president of the assembly and the famous V.D. The mayor. These are the problems that would possibly... They're already going public and now all we have to do is show up some judge of the Constitutional Court... Let's just say that Slobodan Vukevic is still the president of that court, so we wouldn't be living off his interpretation and defending the views of whoever sent him there. That is why we believe that the Constitutional Court judges are not allowed to plead on cases which may be subject to resolution in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10695	On Article 3 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10696	Let me just put a few arguments in that direction that this Article 3 is not well-defined. I accept the government's views that we may need to define it more precisely in this direction as the Constitutional Court judges say, that they were not political figures after the final decision was made, however, it is unacceptable that judges of the Constitutional Court can no longer speak of it after the final decision was made in any way. I'll make the following arguments in favor of that. Imagine the judges of the Constitutional Court who wrote a book, which was done in the history of the US Constitutional Court, the former Serbia and the SFRY. Public opinion is also writing in books. If that book is sold in more than 15 or 20 copies, as is the case in some countries in practice, what does that mean - public opinion, then it is immediately public and we have to punish that judge of the Constitutional Court, because he is acting contrary to this law. Let's imagine another situation, we've given the judges of the Constitutional Court the opportunity to speak in law school, to hand over students, and now imagine a student who's going to ask the Constitutional Court judge who's a professor -- what's your opinion, and he can't speak his mind, nor explain the Constitutional Court's verdict, because that's contrary to the law. Imagine the third situation... The Constitutional Court judges make very important decisions, which are not only decisions concerning individuals; the Constitutional Court makes decisions concerning all citizens of Serbia. Imagine a situation where the President of the Constitutional Court can't in the spirit of reason, I'm not talking about any political situation, to present the Constitutional Court's decision. What's the alternative? The alternative is to use the Constitutional Court for political purposes, as all other politicians can comment on the Constitutional Court decisions, and the Constitutional Court itself cannot, or the President of the Constitutional Court. The alternative is tutorship, because the President of the Constitutional Court, who is most invited to talk about the decision (I am speaking now in a positive sense of that word, I am not now talking about how it stands), that it speaks in a spirit of reason, it cannot do so. Because if I've got this previous attitude right... I, in that sense, offered the Minister that together, possibly at the Committee's session, we would also agree to redefine this amendment that I have proposed. I accept that we redefine it in the sense that the Constitutional Court judges, once a final decision is made, can speak exclusively in the sense of the reasoning which defines the Constitutional Court's decision. But this is not how they can talk about it, if I understood your previous exposure; if I didn't, then I apologize. It has nothing to do with the public at work. The public of work doesn't define itself that way -- now we're going to be filmed by cameras or someone is going to broadcast that and that, period. The public of work is a matter of perseverance. If he lets me chair another 30 seconds, I'll just finish. Let us ask the question of how we understand the public of work, how we fear poor political practices in Serbia. We can't get rid of some good solutions based on bad political practice. We must come from this base that the Constitutional Court is independent, that the judges of the Constitutional Court are persons who are not politically defined. I don't want to get into whether or not they are. If we don't admit it and keep this position, then let's admit that the Constitutional Court is not independent, that the judges of the Constitutional Court are members of the political parties and then it cuts off with each other. I think we need to accept the constitution's starting point that the Constitutional Court is independent, that the Constitutional Court judges are independent and that from these positions they will speak after making a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10697	I thank Srdjan Shin. The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic, then, after the amendment, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10698	So, as I said, it is possible to represent very different views on this issue and it is quite natural, because it is an important matter and an important issue. Not just because of the experience we've had, and not in the last few years, we've known for decades, because it really is an important thing, the measure of things has to be found. That measure is crystallized at some point, and it manifests itself through the legal norm. I'm not gonna repeat what I already said. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are reasoned. If there is a need to present some other reasons, it means that this argument is not good, and then we all have a problem together. So, the Constitutional Court, judges of the Constitutional Court, say their word when they make a decision, when they give reasons for that decision, so when they explain it. The decision in most cases is published in the state newspaper, so the official messenger, and it is known to everyone. Judges of the Constitutional Court, once again, are persons with great power, drawn from the Constitution, from this law, and their public appearance has one quite special and specific weight. What I was saying earlier refers to their ability to talk about principled things. These principled things can at some point become some sort of case in the Constitutional Court and I remain at the point of view that I said: after the procedure has been completed, there is no need and it is not good for them to appear in public as individuals defending certain positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10699	I thank Mr. Minister Dusan Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, it seems to us in the SPS parliamentary group that this amendment is absolutely logical and that it makes a lot of sense. I'm not going to get into what the minister says, but I think it confirms this thesis that Mr. Cvetkovic said earlier, we're really going to have a protected species, no offense to any of them. Now, so, the government gives an explanation, please pay attention, the government gives an explanation that the amendment cannot be accepted, I quote - it is not clear what the Constitutional Court judges would give an opinion after the Constitutional Court's decision has been made, because everything is contained in the reasoning. It seems to me that what my colleague Shane has suggested is very correct: while the dispute is, there is no public appearance, and then, please, Mr. Constitutional Court judge, come out and defend your position. Why am I saying this? You heard how much fellow MPs discussed candidates for the Constitutional Court. Look what it says in their biographies. I'm talking about living people. They, the 10 designated by the president and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will be... We know what they're saying, from A to S, at least according to these papers, what they've been doing and what they're doing. I'm not convinced, without intending to warn anyone individually, so that everyone can withstand the pressure of public appearance and interpretation of their decision. I'm not sure, based on what it says here. I'm not convinced that we could withstand the power of confrontation with someone who thinks differently from the Constitutional Court judge. If the minister appreciates that the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision will be a measure for everything and that the story ends, I don't think that's a strong argument. Why? The same proposal for a Constitutional Court Act, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. From 37th to 40th, he's talking about a public debate. So there will be a public debate, judges will be able to participate in it, interested persons, third parties, etc. It seems to me that this part of the law is good because it allows the public to be familiar with what the Constitutional Court is doing in a particular case. Now a logical question is being asked - if people can participate in the work of the Constitutional Court session, they are discussing very specific issues... Please, fellow Members of Parliament, see Articles 37, 38, 39, 40, which discuss the public debate of the Constitutional Court. I really don't see, at least I, I don't seem to see a logical reason why, since the Constitutional Court's decision is made, some judge who took part in it doesn't come out (of course, if the subject is such a character that, I say, causes public attention) to say what the arguments are. Why? Because it is a question of how this argument of the Constitutional Court's decision will be written. Whether it will be written in a way that the general public can understand it or only be part of an expert opinion, which is certainly based on the law, but objectively remains logically explained only to a narrow circle of people who understand the question. It should not be forgotten, the Constitutional Court has much to do with its jurisdiction and what it will decide. This amendment, submitted by colleague Srdjan Shain, seems to us from the SPS to be completely logical. All right, while the case is, until the Constitutional Court makes a decision, shut up and not talk, and that's good, since we've had, unfortunately, a different practice so far, that the Constitutional Court judges advance to state what their position is and form public opinion and propo future decisions. But we don't see why when decisions of the Constitutional Court are made, he wouldn't say anything else about the case that will be before the Constitutional Court. If he does not, then he confirms that he or she must not say anything after the decision and that he or she will be able to declare it, possibly, if he is engaged in law school professors, so when he explains some cases from the contents of the Constitutional Court's work. What my colleague, Shane, suggested seems completely logical to me. I know the government has another concept, and it seems to me that this concept was contrary to the provisions of Articles 37, 38, 39, where it speaks of a public debate. If it is possible for the public to be familiar with this and, of course, with the explanation that the rapporteur will present before his colleagues and others interested in a dispute, then there is no reason that after the verdict, or after the decision has been made, he is not part of what is called a debate on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10701	I thank the People's MP, Zarko Obradovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10702	I'll be very brief. It's still about the second amendment, Mr. Radovic. Under the previous amendment, we have considered the situation when the amendment requires that opinions be prevented on issues which could be the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court. There I pointed out my position that this would practically mean banning the opposition of the Constitutional Court judges, so that it would be better if the amendment were to be read – the beating of the public is prohibited. However, Mr. Shaina's explanation of the amendments is perfectly fine and I have no problem with it, but there are not many points of contact with the member to whom the amendment is submitted. I remind you, what Mr. Shane said is fine, and we accept it all, but with the attitude of Article 5. The bill does not have much to do with it, precisely because Article 5 provides: "The judge cannot give his opinion publicly on the issue which is the subject of the dispute before the Constitutional Court". The amendment requires the entry after the point of the text 'before you finally make your decision'. It's this part that's confusing, for a few reasons. First, this indicates that the Constitutional Court's decision could be referred to a complaint. Finally, the dispute ends before the Constitutional Court is just that decision. Why re-enter this 'before you finally make a decision', when it is already said in the text of the bill? So these words are too much, they're making a mistake right now. The arguments you have given are perfectly acceptable, as well as Mr. Shane's arguments, but it is not this amendment's place here, because Article 3 of Article 5 is clear and accurate. By adopting the amendment, we would create some confusion. I'm trying to be very brief, so maybe that's why I should skip some words. As you know, the Constitutional Court decisions are final. You are introducing new terms precisely from some other procedural laws, where complaints are possible for a first-degree decision or a further appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10703	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the argument given by the Government regarding the proposal of Mr Srdjan Shain's MP, reads this: 'The government does not accept the amendment because it is of the opinion that the reasons for the Constitutional Court's decision are in the light of the decision, so it is not clear what the Constitutional Court judge would give an opinion after the Constitutional Court's decision was made. '"As for the SRS, we think it's okay. When a decision is made, it is written in the decision made and after that there is no more commenting, who was in favour, who was against, it is all over when the decision is made. There is one thing that there is no discussion: each profession brings certain advantages and brings some things that a man must give up. Someone decides on an officer's and police call and knows he has to wear a uniform. There's no dilemma. It will-it won't, it has to. The fact that it's now passed on to civilian military service, that's why they wear diapers to wash, etc. The Constitutional Court judge here doesn't become law enforcement, and he doesn't force himself to do that. He gives his consent and he needs to know in advance what he can't. One who is not ready to accept these restrictions simply should not be judge of the Constitutional Court. What is our imperative? To get an independent constitutional court. Guys, you can see that's why the country's a mess. It wasn't better until 2000, to be clear, not much better, but during a certain period of time some things have, in some ways, formed as standard and there has been no such drastic violation of the Constitution and acceptance by the Constitutional Court that it is a completely normal thing. Remember what Slobodan Vučetic did to you when he said the mandates belonged to the list from which MPs were elected. It is not Bosko Ristic's fault that he was in legal error, he was brought to legal error by Slobodan Vučetic, judge of the Constitutional Court. We had 346 MPs here at one point, as many as we had. This is what the problem is, and we are trying to prevent the Constitutional Court judges from participating in politics in any way in any way and to form public opinion, to identify themselves, not on the basis of the profession, there would be no problem. You know, the profession involves certain norms, rules, and experts can argue about it, but this is about people who would take their opinion based on political demands and fear them politically. That's the biggest problem for us. Well, why are we wasting so much time on these amendments? That's exactly why. If your intention is indeed, as you said, that the Constitutional Court is independent, then in some way these restrictions presuppose that it will be independent, but at least that it will not be able to beyond a certain limit to affect certain decisions, i.e. forming public opinions. This would make it clear to any Constitutional Court judge in advance that he has nothing to comment on about cases that may be in the Constitutional Court, nothing to comment on, nothing to express. The reasons why you rejected Srdjan Shaina's amendment fully fits in to accept this proposal, so also for cases which may be subject to debate in the Constitutional Court. Don't cloud it, it's very clear and precise in the Constitution to say what the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is. You know all the deadlines and they're very short. Mr. Minister, you should know that. So, on such short notice, when something happens, journalists run on a mission and ask the Constitutional Court judge -- what do you think of that and that case? Then the argument begins, and you will be in a situation where those judges elected on the DS proposal will have one opinion, those elected on the DSS list will have another opinion, those from some third party... There's also one reserve that means that, eventually, you should, just in case, keep some things in reserve, so I would never say that you wouldn't... What do we get now? Are we getting a really independent Constitutional Court? Are we really getting a decision based on law? No, we get a decision that will be based, first of all, on political decisions and secondly on the majority of the Constitutional Court itself. Whoever has more candidates or more judges, that's the decision they'll make. This is why nothing is tragic, nor is it a problem to restrict judges of the Constitutional Court in any way. Simply, by this amendment, I am talking about the previous amendment, you would in some way prevent judges from making political decisions because someone chose them as the judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10705	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Shane. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (From the O.R.: No transmission. I just want to get this over with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10706	This doesn't matter, about the transmission, I just want to say something to the minister. Mr. Minister, you have no constitutional right and no one has the constitutional right to restrict human freedom. No one has the right to restrict freedom of speech. You are the most directly restricting the freedom of speech to the judges of the Constitutional Court. The president of the state can speak, the president of the assembly can speak, the MPs can speak, all the judges can speak. Where did you get the constitutional right to restrict the judges of the Constitutional Court the right to speak of something in public? One question of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is if I get money for something, I have public authority, and I can't deal with anything else so I don't abuse my function. But by making a final decision, I can no longer influence that decision, because the decision has been made; so, after that, it is not one or the other, it is my personal freedom, it is the freedom of the Constitutional Court judges. You have to give them the freedom that they, as citizens of Serbia, can talk about what they want, the moment they are no longer in conflict of interest. (President: Mr. Shane, it's not worth it now, let's stop the session, the MPs of the radical party are... I'm sorry, I thought you gave me your word. (President: I gave the word, but not worth the time. That's what I was gonna say. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-14-0.u10707	We'll have those two questions tomorrow. I thank the MPs for their patience and thank Minister Petrovic. Resume session is tomorrow at 10:00.
