ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1501	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one explanation. The rapporteur is Tomislav Nikolic, I will also use the business opportunity to say a few words about the candidate for National Assembly Vice-President Bozidar Delic's election principle of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is important that Serbian citizens also have information for which MPs vote, why they vote, but also that the Serbian Radical Party respects the principle of proportionate representation of political party representatives in line with national will. Serbian Radical Party candidate Bozidar Delic was born in 1956 in the heart of Serbia, in Djakovica. Bozidar Delic has completed all of Serbia's top military schools. So, the Military Academy of the Land Army, the Command and Staff Military Academy and the National Defence School. More importantly, Bozidar Delic commanded the 549th Motorised Brigade during NATO aggression, which suffered heavy losses. He was one of the men who got a medal for courage, and his unit Order of the People's Hero. It's a man Serbia can, should and must be proud of. Unlike him and at the time, the one going to Ohio today, I didn't know we had anything to do with Ohio (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: Well, they bombed us. Except we've been bombed from Ohio, as well as Oregon, and from every other American country. He, who commands the Serbian army today, is a man who was not allowed to hold a broom in his hand at that time. He was so important, so much credit, so much courage and so much ability. To understand better, he did not get that broom to avoid self-harming, he is so serious in military and military terms, Mr. Posh. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, will not say anything bad about other candidates for vice presidents. It's our principle since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We can't wait for all your next suggestions. We see that the government has been raped, they've been encouraged. I hear that last night, on some television show, after the great Djelic-Ilic-Ilic duo, that, they say, was a wonderful duel, I hear that that kid mentioned something to me, because he can't come out here for a pay phone, because he can't do anything, I hear he's gonna sue me. I'm also sued by Ponoš, and Stankovic, everyone's suing me, and there's no way that lawsuit's gonna get to me. I'm just letting you know, I'm taking the opportunity to call the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, most powerful, that's the one who voted for himself when he wasn't an MP, and at 23:30 he resigned at 23.31 and 11 seconds he voted for himself, but that's something common. I'm taking the opportunity, for the sake of the public, so people don't think, that Wolf didn't want to be in RTS. Vukic wanted to but they didn't call him, but they called him a great opponent from the Serbian government, his colleague Velje Ilic. I'm taking the opportunity to call, because I know, they're much smarter, much braver, much more professional, whatever you want, Mr. Micunovic. I'm taking the opportunity to call Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, wherever he wants to go to the duel, whatever he wants, whatever he wants us to talk about, talk about, show the citizens of Serbia who's telling the truth and who's not, and who's a criminal and who's not a criminal. I think it's the most honest thing, that the citizens of Serbia will once and for all clear it up. As for the candidate for National Assembly Vice-President Bozidar Delic, I just want to point out to you, is a man who is not an active officer today just because he was headed by a brigade that heroically defended both Kosara and Djakovica, and they all approach Kosovo and Metohija from Albania, because only 25% of those who were not seriously injured in his unit, at least, and they did not want to withdraw from the position because they had the least possible destruction of material and technical means and because they did not let even the pedal aggressor take up Serbian territory. Is it your message that the most capable officers shouldn't be doing their job? Is your message that that broom should be Serbia's future? It's a good message for you, let him broom on, it would be better if he broomd around Ohio than in Serbia, it would be less damage for Serbia, and something bigger for Ohio, but in any case, no one will benefit from its broom. It would be better for some city community service to sign up than it is at the post of Chief of Staff. As far as ladies and gentlemen are concerned, what certain media are doing in the haze against Serb officers goes beyond the Hitlerian propaganda of the worst kind. Now I just have to... I didn't understand you, you're throwing something at me, so you're cursing. It's not like a lady to swear. You're not cursing?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1502	Please, Mr. Wolfie, don't communicate with the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1503	I try to communicate with those who earn something, don't go out for a pay phone, I don't know what they're yelling at, I don't know what's wrong with them. I hope, if you haven't had a good breakfast, here's what I'm going to offer, there's a restaurant here, we'll pay, it's not a problem, don't worry, it's not that bad. No need to worry, no need to be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1504	Stick to the subject, Mr. Wolfie, please, before breakfast.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1505	Mr. Grouchy, I'm sticking to the subject, but you don't listen to what's going on in the O.R., but I won't blame you. I'm counting, you've got to show that you're training strictness, but as far as I'm concerned, you won't be long. Unfortunately for me, I'm afraid a lot worse, worse than you will come. There's nothing wrong with your work I don't mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1506	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie, stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1507	So yesterday's hysteria, which says the biggest criminals in Serbia are some children who have glued posters that say "Bulevar Ratko Mladic", shows... ... I didn't, but if I did, you'd never take them off, I guarantee you with my life. You'd never touch them, and I guarantee it. So much so that you know how things stand, and all of you together as much as there are. (President: I ask the MPs not to communicate with the speaker and not to bother him. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the biggest criminals in the country are the ones who make your poster, and not the biggest criminals who robbed all the businesses in Serbia, are not your biggest criminals from the energy-financed mafia, are not your biggest criminals that take away Kosovo and Metohija from you. Your biggest problem and the most important test is how you're going to arrest some kids who think differently from you, who are tired of you glorifying Zoran Djindjic as a saint, who we know by the statement "whom is it to the morale to go to church". Otherwise, I advocate that instead of these boulevards and the streets of Zoran Djindjic, we put his key statement everywhere, "whom it takes to go to church," so it's called the street. Or the other "Boru Mine Workers, plant peanuts, because there's no more work for you." It's these famous and big statements. But I have to tell you, the fact that little people think they're very powerful when they have all the power, and that they can persecute all the people, and that they can arrest those who cry beautifully, and that it's the most important thing on the globe, they need to know only one thing -- that it's the darkest night before dawn, that the dawn is approaching, that freedom is getting closer to Serbia, and you General Mladic won't catch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1508	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Bajram Omeragic answered his word. He's giving up. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will stick to the subject and briefly explain why the G17 Plus parliamentary group is proposing Mr. Milosevic Albianic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Albianic was president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group in the previous period, we are confident that he enjoys great reputation in all parliamentary groups, and that the job of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also be carried out in a safe and responsible manner. You have contributed to his biography, only to say that Mr Albianić is a graduate mathematician by education, and is currently a graduate at the Faculty of Economics, Finance and Administration in the direction of European Integration. I sincerely hope that you will all support Mr Albianic's election as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1510	Thank you, Mrs. Grubishic. Is Bajram Omeragic in the hall? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1511	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Esad Djudjevic, a candidate for the vice-president of the National Assembly, graduated in sociology at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, was a good student. He was one of the founders of the DS, he was on the move for social change in our country. He's been a politician since he was 90. As a sociologist, he worked in several institutions, worked as a journalist, he wrote, an MP in several terms in the Federal Assembly, in this National Assembly. I think this job will work seriously, securely and will respect every MP, and will do everything to ensure that rhetoric in this House is on the level, and will preserve the dignity of every MP and, given that these sessions are transferred, try to enter one dose of civilized dialogue and conduct, which will be to the satisfaction of all our citizens. I suggest you vote for Esad Djudjevic because he's serious, professional, and I think this job will work extremely responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1512	Thank you, Mr. Omeragic. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 17(4) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a hearing on the proposals of candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Dacic answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS will not take part in the debate on this issue because we consider it to be one of the most common things and because we will adhere to the tradition that has been in this House, which is that this issue is not traditionally discussed. It is a matter of political parties who have the right to have a vice president whom they will propose. If we had seen before who we were voting for, probably each of us would have certain objections to a person who should be vice president of parliament. If we looked at it that way, as some of the parties that are now running for president and vice-president of parliament looked at the last session, none of the parties would almost have a elected vice president or president, as each would vote solely for its own. So I think we should go back to those good traditions that at least existed here, which is that we all vote together for the list of vice presidents and for the composition of the delegation, and as far as the president is concerned, it's a matter of parliamentary majority, and of course we can't help you. I don't know if you can help yourself, not as far as the president is concerned, but as far as the parliamentary majority is concerned. Of course, since when they were our candidates, if we were to take the same measure back, we wouldn't vote for your candidate list. If we returned as you treated us, you would not vote for Esad Djudjevic or Mica Albianić. The problem is that you should see to it that you behave as you expect other political parties to treat you. The SPS won't reciprocate here with any reciprocal measures, no children's ingenuity. We want to have a proper relationship with all parties. We'll vote for all the candidates, although some of the candidates probably don't deserve the SPS to give them a vote. Also, since one post of vice-president belongs to national minorities, since LDP has granted the post to members of national minorities, I do not enter what national minorities have proposed, but I am sorry that the proposal does not belong to the parliamentary minority, but belongs to the parliamentary majority. The candidate for vice president, Esad Djudjevic, voted in favour of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Both Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin are now gathered in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If nothing else, the Serbian government has succeeded in uniting the warring parties in Novi Pazar. I hope this will take a little longer, and as far as that goes, it would be better if he were a member of another political party that brings together national minorities, who are the opposition's representative, had been elected vice president. That's your thing. We will vote for him and Albianic, and of course General Delic. Also, I would like to remind you that the SPS has its own Vice President Milutin Mrkonjic. You went out here to praise your candidates. I want at the end of this job that's going to end today...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1514	Stick to the subject, Dacic, please. I've already been chosen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1515	Since Milutin Mrkonjic knows what I'm going to say, he's trying to stop me, but he can't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1516	I'll take your word for it, please, if you don't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1517	I want to thank him on behalf of the SPS for doing this job so far. I want to congratulate him on behalf of all MPs for his first 65 years of life. The SPS will not participate in this debate. I apologize to Milutin Mrkonjic for maybe adding a 30-year-old to him, but in any case, he finished them successfully, and I congratulate him on this job he did, not only in the interest of the SPS, but he did it before the deadline...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1518	Please, Mr. Dacic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1519	Mr. Carrot, I've got 20 minutes. I used five minutes and 15 seconds, so I can talk another 15 minutes, praise you. I can tell the odyssey and the epic about you, but there's no need. Congratulations and Borki Vukic and Milutin Mrkonjic, who, contrary to all your expectations, have shown you that sometimes years are not a handicap but an advantage. I want to thank them on behalf of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1520	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1521	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as Tomislav Nikolic announced yesterday, will not participate in the debate and we will not speak, nor will we. Simply parliamentary practice, parliamentary tradition and principles clearly command all parliamentary groups not to declare themselves candidates for vice-presidents of other political parties. But it's a good opportunity to say more about some of the things that happen in our society, since we don't have another place for it. I see that the government has democratically captured all the media, so they go to duels against each other, to say one thing -- I did more, and this other minister -- I'm a little bit more, although this fellow of mine has done a lot. What I think is very important, it is, Mr. Mrkonjic, that we have worked under great pressure all the time, not under the pressure of the citizens of Serbia, not under the pressure of the public, but under the pressure of the worst in our country, those who want evil in Serbia, those who at all costs, in every way and every godly day try to do something against our country, in one hand and against its territorial integrity, but always against institutions, most often against those for which Serbian citizens are to the greatest extent possible. Unfortunately, we live in a country where anything is possible. We live in a country where it's possible for you to show on TV videos that you can't show in a courtroom. It has nothing to do with who it is, I've never seen in my life, and I don't know who Zvezdan Jovanovic is, or anyone else, but you can't act against the law and put pressure on everyone and everyone in this country, that he can't make a decision any other way. We all know what the verdict will be today. We all know the judge will say 40 years for everything. Maybe it's deserved, maybe it's not, I'm not a judge. I don't want to get into it, but you're not judges either, and even less is Judge B92, that he's telling the people, if this is the verdict that has to be. Well, because we live in society, in a state where the media judge, in which the agents judge, what Gerj Sereshi says, it must be so, which is falsely represented as George Soros, as he says, such a verdict must be. If that's not the verdict, then I don't know who did it. Then everything in the world must collapse. What's the matter? What kind of country do we live in? Is that somewhere in the world? Have you heard that in some country in the world, things like this happen? I didn't hear, I did last night, not knowing what to do anymore, literally out of anger, you don't understand it, I get on the Internet to see where similar things happen, to find them the biggest processes that have existed in history, since the Kennedy murder, and so on. There's nothing like this going on anywhere. But why is it done today? Not only that, it is your trial and about Jova Djog, it is this pressure on Mladic, it is the pressure for every trial that the government intends for, that is, the main government of Sam Nazaro, as it must be, and what it needs to look like. What kind of country do you want us to live in? In a country where, if it doesn't like the Shadows Vlatkovic or Brankica Stankovic grabs the whole state? Is there a judge who can rule against Brankica Stankovic or Senki Vlatkovic? I don't think there's one, because in this country, there's not much anyone who can normally say anything against them because it's gonna be on the wallpaper. Well, I don't care, the truth has to be told somewhere. You'll see tonight, they've done a wonderful job, a wonderful court council, a wonderful special prosecutor. That wonderful special prosecutor, Radovanovic, I think that's his name, is the man who indicted dead Slobodan Milosevic. For people to know, he did not go into damages proceedings against his successors, he initiated criminal proceedings against a dead man in the Serbian legal system, where that is impossible. It's true, there are legal systems where possible. In the Serbian legal system, it's absolutely impossible, and the special prosecutor doesn't know that. But what Verse Radet said, it seems that the broom is in another system, so he learned to fight dead people. But it's not that, it's something else. Even when he was pressing charges against Slobodan Milosevic, dead for a year, he did it not because he is so ignorant, he probably is, but not so big, the other is the reason. He also did so on a warrant from the outside, to tell the nation, and that is also the fault of Slobodan Milosevic, only to send a political message. It doesn't matter that it's legal nonsense, it doesn't matter that it's complete nonsense, it's important to fit the message that for that part of the life of Serbian citizens only Slobodan Milosevic is responsible. That's what they're doing terrifyingly corrupt and frighteningly cunning. I would never go out to say something about Oliver Dulic's mom and dad waiting for the news that he's the president of the assembly, or I don't mind. All right, Mom and Dad are looking forward to it, so nice. But I'm against it when someone's pushing any of us to think, judges of what verdicts to make, prosecutors of what charges they're going to press, and today in the state of state, the worst criminals and protected witnesses are gonna be a god and a beating in this country. To give you the most respected businessmen, the most respected tolls, and I don't know who the members of the essential mafia are. But they're very respectable because they're on the side of a democratic society. So no matter how many people they killed, no matter how many people they shot in the street in cold blood, no matter how much money they took or robbed, it's important that European orientations. Don't bother us with those orientations any more and explain to us through various media that we're going to die if we don't join the EU. You tell us what they said first. The official representative of the European Union's chairman, Germany at the moment, Ambassador Cobel made a fine announcement to the public in Serbia -- in 25-30 years Serbia will be an EU member. I don't know what will exist from the EU then, but it's one good perspective, 25-30 years. The much worse perspective is that you will not ask yourself a question - and what we do when the EU says, "We recognise an independent Kosovo". What's your answer to that? Still through the media to speak - lived the European perspective? Still Oliver Dulic to say -- I don't want Kosovo and Metohija to assume Serbia's European perspectives? We will. We want to act in accordance with the Constitution that we brought together. For us, Serbia is the most obstacles and most important, and a million times more important than the EU, and from America, if you will from all other countries on the globe of the Earth. I ask you all to just put a little more principle in everything that's happening today in society. [[A big round of applause radicals.]] Once again, you are not the most guilty children in the country who tape the poster "Bulevar Ratko Mladic". The most guilty are those who accused Ratko Mladic of defending the Serb people west of Drina and Danube. The most guilty are those who would blame all Serbian heroes, bearers of Orden of Karadjordje's star, bearers of freedom, such as Jovo Djogo, the disabled, to put behind bars, and these people represent the shame of Serbia, and these people are the pride of Serbia. Keep in mind that you cannot banish and persecute a different opinion in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1522	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1523	The DS will support the proposed vice-presidential candidates without debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1524	Thank you, Hope. Anyone else answer for a word from the heads of Parliament? No, I don't. () Since we have not received any applications for discussion, I ask MPs if anyone wants a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding the search on candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to agree to Article 17(5). Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, I shall establish a list of candidates for the election of three vice-presidents of the National Assembly. According to proposals submitted, I am setting out the next list of candidates for the election of three vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Miloljub Albianic, Bozidar Delic, Esad Djudjevic. After we have conducted a search on candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will decide on the election of three vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and now we are giving a break until 11.00. Thank you. To prepare a proposal on committees. Don't get out of the O.R., please. [[After break – 11,20]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE AMENDMENTS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF SERBIA For this item of the agenda, you have received proposals on amendments, i.e. amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by parliamentary groups: DSS-NSS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica, G 17 plus, LDP, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities - the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians - the Union for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, the Vojvodjan Group of MPs - LSV, SVM. You have also received additions, i.e. amendments to these proposals on the amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the DS parliamentary group on 23 May 2007, replacing its additions and amendments to the draft decision, which was submitted on 22 May 2007. Correcting the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group G 17 plus 22 May 2007. Corrections to the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Vojvodjanski MEPs - LSV, SVM 22 and 23 May 2007. Correction of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities -- the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley on 23 May 2007. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Who's answering for a word? Nobody. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? They don't want to. Thank you. Do any of the MPs, once again, want a word? He doesn't want to. Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, once again? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted the search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of the parliamentary groups for amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the third point is done. Since, for the fourth, fifth and sixth points of the established agenda of this session, authorised applicants have not submitted their proposals, I find that there are no conditions for working on those points. In this way we concluded the debate on all points of the agenda, and in accordance with Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 23 May 2007 as the day for voting, starting at 11.30 p.m. Thank you, gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and since it is in agreement with Article 10(5) of the Convention, Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 11. Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of MPs, Article 12. Rules of Procedure. I suggest that the election of the National Assembly president be made by a public vote of appeal. Before voting on this proposal, I would like to ask that the number of MPs present be determined. I agree that the sittings are attended by 153 MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the election of the president of the National Assembly is carried out by a public vote of appeal. For 133, a abstentioned one, did not vote 95, of the 229 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of the president of the National Assembly should be made by a public vote of appeal. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – The election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly has decided to hold the election of the National Assembly president by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs, Article 12. Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you he's a member of 124. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting by a call and, in accordance with that provision, shall: the Secretary of the National Assembly shall call upon the Members of Parliament in the alphabetical order of the last name; each appointed MP shall pronounce a word for, against or abstention; the chairperson shall repeat the name and name of the MP who voted and his or her statement, or establish that he is absent or not willing to vote; the Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, found that the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all MPs, elects the National Assembly president, which means that a MP who received most of the votes of all MPs was elected to the National Assembly. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Oliver Dulic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let's approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. I note that the vote is done in such a way that every MP says the word "no" or "no" or "no". I ask the MPs to stand up and plead when they vote. Avramović Dragan – za; Avramović Milan – v; Albianić Miloljub – za; Alšić Bojana – za; Aligrudić Miloš – za; Anastasovski Dragoljub – v; Andrić Ivan – v; Antić Zoran – v; Antonijević Vuko – za; Arsić Veroljub – v; Adžić Slobodan – za; Bajatović Dušan – absent; Baković Tatomir – v; Banović Donka – za; Baralić Rajko – v; Bjadić – Vladanjan – absent; Belić Milorad – za; Bečić Igor – v; Vasilović Gorjan – za ; Bogdanović Mr. Nenadak – absent; Bozjan-Taljan Elena – absent – Boja Milorad – v; Valjaredjarep Saša – v; Varga Laslo – za; Vasilić – Željić – za ; Vlažić – Vlažko – Vlažica – Vlažica – Vlažnak – Vlak; Vlažkom Mikovk – Zak – Zak; Vlak; Vlažak – Zak; Vlažkom Mikovkić – Zakić – Zakić – Zakić-T; Žalić-Tak-Tak-Tak-Talić-Tak-Tak-Talić-Tak-Talić-Tak-Talić-Tak-Talić-Slak Jorgovanka – v; Tišma Jovan – za; Todorovović Dragan – v; Toman Marina – absent; Tomanova-Makanova Ana – za; Tomić Željko – za; Topalović Zdravko – v; Topalović Slavisa – v; Tot Tamaš – za; Tošković Vučeta – v; Umičević Predrag – za; Halim Riza – abstenzen; Hasanovic-Korać Biljana – za; Hrebik Jaroslav – za; Cvetanovic Goran – v; Cvetković Petar – za; Canak Nenad – absent; Colić Dragan – absent; Čomić Gordana – za; Judžević Esad – za; Šajn Srđan – za; Šarović Zran – za; Sarović Nest; Škrbić Oedip – v; Škrbić Milan – v; Šrmaz Dragan – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-23-0.u1527	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you all and everyone who has supported me. Of course, thank you to the others who participated today in the vote and yesterday in the debate. I'll try to make sure everything I promised, which is the purpose of my presidency, and I do. Please cooperate together, because I am sure that at the end of this assembly we can say that we have built a home, which is much more dignified, to work in the interest of the Serbian state. I only need one thing from yesterday's debate to explain to you, and that is doubtful that we want to end the television broadcasts of the assembly sessions. It's the flow of democracy we've all fought for together. No one has the right to abolish the right of Serbian citizens to inform what is happening in parliament. I will make sure that the citizens of Serbia are informed not only of what is happening in the tide, but also of what is happening at committee sessions, and that they have the right to watch other activities of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you very much. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE THIRD PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out the search and since it is in agreement with Article 17(5). Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for the election of three vice-presidents of the National Assembly, I remind you, according to Article 18. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote by making a statement to the MPs for each candidate individually - by raising hands or by calling. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by public vote - by raising hands. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 145, they did not vote 84 out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote - by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly is done by public vote - by raising your hand, I remind you that the public vote - by raising your hand, according to Article 18(2). The Rules of Procedure shall make a statement to the Members of Parliament for each candidate individually. I also remind you that, according to Article 123. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, MPs first declare - who is for the proposal, then who is against the proposal and ultimately - who refrains from voting. I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 104(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. For the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will vote in the order that the candidates for vice-presidents are set out on the candidate list. First, I would like to put the motion to elect MP Milojub Albianic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (241) Who's against it? Nobody. ( b) Who is abstaining? One. I find that the National Assembly with 241 votes for and one abstention accepted this proposal. Congratulations, Mr. Albianic. Secondly, I would like to put forward a proposal to elect MP Bozidar Delic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's in? (232) Who's against it? Nobody. ( b) Who is abstaining? Two. ) I find that the National Assembly with 232 votes in favour and two abstentions accepted this proposal. Congratulations, Mr. Delic. Third, I would like to put the motion to be elected as vice-president of the National Assembly by MP Esad Djudjevic. Who's in? (234) Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? (One ) I find that the National Assembly with 234 votes in favour and one abstention accepted this proposal. Since candidates Milojub Albianic, Bozidar Delic and Esad Djudjevic, received most of the votes of all MPs, I find they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate on your and my behalf the vice presidents of the National Assembly in the election and ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposals of parliamentary groups to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(2) point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs of the National Assembly. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, with an addition, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. For 223, it did not vote six out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the addition of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. They didn't vote four for 227, out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party. For 224, it did not vote six out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, with a correction, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities -- the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarian-List for the Sandzak-Union of Roma Serbia-Coalition of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley. Two out of 233 MPs voted for 231. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's committee, with a correction, submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities -- the Alliance of the Vojvodina Hungarian-List for the Sandzak-Union Roma of Serbia-A coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Committee, with corrections submitted by the Vojvodjanski MEPs-LSV Group, SVM. For 228, it did not vote five out of 233 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, with corrections submitted by the Vojvodjanski MEPs-LSV Group, SVM. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that all the proposals adopted are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as one legally-technically united act - a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 184, it did not vote 46 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I want to tell you that we'll probably have a new session on Friday. Thank you very much.
