ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11211	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 108 Members of the People. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please determine the quorum. I find that there are more than one third of the MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the National MPs: Elvira Kovac, Edip Sheriffov, Konstantin Samofalov, Vuk Dinčić, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Tot Tamaš, Oliver Dulic, Meho Omerović, Vesna Pešić, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Bogdanović, Vladan Vukicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zoran Petrov, Cedomir Petkovic, Slavoljub Mitov and Predrag Umicevic. Before we continue the search, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all Orthodox Christians on the Council of the Holy Archangel Michael, as their glory. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AZIL The Minister of the Interior Dragan Jocic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11212	First of all, I apologize to the MPs for not being able to attend yesterday when the discussion is open, i.e. the debate on amendments to the asylum law, but I would ask you to understand because the work I do cannot always predict the time, although I do know that one of the most difficult obligations is for the minister to be in parliament. I would like to inform you, and you have probably received this, that the government has adopted four amendments, the first amendment of MP Momir Markovic to Article 2. Bill proposal, then amendment of MP Milovan Radovanovic to Article 2, Natasha Jovanovic to Member 14 and MP Lidija Vukicevic to Article 20. Also, I now adopt amendments to Article 11, which was submitted by MP Dejan Mitrovica, and to Article 31, the amendment submitted by the Defence and Security Committee, so that it is recorded. I'm going to ask you for another absence in the course of today after my duties are unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11213	Mr. Minister, Article 11, Dejan Mirovic, I assume we are thinking of the same; Dejan Mirovic, and you said Dejan Mitrovica. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to take advantage of the time the minister has left for us while he is at our disposal to say that I am not satisfied with the excuse that the minister has duties and short-term jobs. That the minister should respect the National Assembly, it is the biggest and most pressing obligation of Mr. Minister, a team before yesterday's absence from Mr. Minister's circles is just -- you will see on television where the minister is. I watched it last night until 12, I couldn't do it anymore, and, Mr. Jocic, I don't know where you were last night, the TV didn't let us know. But to inform you before you left, and again on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that the National Assembly's hall yesterday was the site of a very interesting discussion, interesting to us who are not involved in any of this, but should be in your service, the law enforcement, the investigation. There was talk yesterday about serious crimes. First, on the one hand, MP Cedomir Jovanovic accused both DSS and G17 plus that they are not running the state but that the state is run by Miroslav Miskovic, president of the company Delta Holding, as it is called, that it affects all your decisions, that it affects your behaviour, that you are financed by Miroslav Miskovic, which is a heavy charge. Yesterday, I didn't quite notice that you were overly defending yourself as MPs against these charges. I'd like us, who are in opposition, to find out what's true. On the other hand, the means of information were filled with an open letter written by Miroslav Miskovic to Cedomir Jovanovic, who directly accused him of participating in the most serious crimes, in the crimes of kidnapping and in the crimes of the division of prey after the kidnapping of the Surcin clan, who was subsequently accused of being the most severe, most brutal, the most monstrous killings, and even for the murder of the Serbian Prime Minister, who, according to Miroslav Miskovic, absolutely knew all the information of these abductions, but could not stand in his way, as he said, unseriously, could not contain the youth of his closest associate, who was involved in everything, but there was nothing the Prime Minister to do against him. I don't think anyone should be deaf about this, that this should not be left without reaction and police, both the prosecution and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Jovanovic has parliamentary immunity, so be careful. I would like the MP to be protected in every second of his life or his mandate from the persecution of power, but please, if there is a man among us who could have been such a cold-blooded criminal, for which Cedomir Jovanovic has been charged, I ask that the investigation be swift, that you go before the National Assembly with evidence that he is innocent, that he is then prosecuted in the law of Miroslav Miskovic. What don't you Democrats want, Miroslav Miskovic? What if he's a criminal? Everyone should go to jail for who's a criminal. Or, in front of evidence, the SRS MPs will vote to abolish Cedomir Jovanovic's immunity to appear before the court. Don't let some kind of drink to Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic prevent you from investigating crime. If it gets to him what he did, so be it for him. If it doesn't get to it, which I hope to, because then all the systems of values that you've established fall, then at least you'll clear the name of Zoran Djindjic, who is directly accused of taking part in all of this. That's why, Mr. Minister, before you go into urgent business, I'd like it to be your immediate job. Not to chase Goran Hadzic around Fruszko Gora, to hate yourself, to get your toes on your feet, or to get zucchini on your hands, but to get you and us to investigate this top state crime, because this was a state crime. This is what the state has been committing. We are now considering the abductions of Milija Babovic, the child of Leprechaun Brena and Zivojinovic. In some of these, an absolute part of the government has been involved, which since 2000, has been established by the burning of the Assembly. I knew when you came to power like that, you would rule as well. For that reason, Mr. Minister, I think your ministry is facing Serbia. There have been mutual accusations of two public figures affecting public opinion. Miskovic, as owner of a company that employs tens of thousands of workers, must have an impact on him. Cedomir Jovanovic, as the man who was the head of your parliamentary group, who was the vice-president of your government, as the man whose party in the elections exceeded the censorship and entered parliament, certainly can cause public opinion to get upset, and as a man who knows what is being discussed at the US Embassy. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to throw yourself at this job with full seriousness, not to be guided by any party interests, but by any morals, law and justice, then you will have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11215	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11216	Dear Ambassador Nikolic, the police can't do anything. He's working not on his own, but on the orders of all the judicial authorities, the prosecution and the investigating judge. Let's see if there's anything out there, in those files in front of the court, any of what was brought out yesterday, and the Home Office will follow every warrant from the D.A.'s office. But I don't have any insight into what's been said and what's in front of the Special Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11217	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11218	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have come to the floor on the basis of Articles 202b and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first occasion is the film "Plastic Jesus", Lazar Stojanović, who showed RTS on the Second Program, which I am deeply grateful for the programme's editorial, because finally our public has been informed of the extremely valuable artistic achievement of Lazar Stojanović, this brave and very honorable man. We made sure Stojanovic's film was one of the examples that, after the truth, often the arrest warrants were called and that people, such as Stojanovic, had to pay their creative rebellion and human protest against freedom with their own freedom, sometimes even their own life. That is why I am addressing the National Assembly and the competent ministry for Lazar Stojanović to be rehabilitated as soon as possible, in a way that is suitable for a country and country such as ours, which is members of 1st and of Article 73. The Constitution has shown its commitment to justice, freedom, European values and freedom of artistic creation. Pointed out in the words of Ivo Andric - Serbia will thus demonstrate its will and willingness to enter a circle of the enlightened world, where the school of freedom and human dignity belongs to the highest place. I look forward to the day when Mr. Lazar Stojanovic will be rehabilitated in a way suitable for our country. Finally, Mr. Chairman, from this place I am obliged to pay my utmost respects to the Ministry of Police and to Mr. Jocic, because I was in a situation a week ago, as our colleague has experienced from G17, but I will wait until I am a very patient man and, in addition, my task as a man, because I was so raised, is to take care of my life, not my death, and yet I am 61 years old, and it is not important how long I live, but it will be, I hope, soon a topic, also, at one of the sessions of this assembly. Finally, Mr. Minister, I asked you and Mr. Dusan Petrovic, I would like an answer to the question: which one of the MPs called this assembly was convicted by Article 113? Until the answer is received, I'm afraid I'll have to come to the sessions in the future with a mask on my face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11219	I remind you that yesterday's working day was interrupted during the search of the amendment of the MP of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jorgovanka Tabaković, to Article 6. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11220	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, have tabled an amendment to the asylum law proposal, by proposing that "without delay" in Article 8 be replaced by "right away", and after the words "valid reasoning" add the words "and valid evidence". Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, that's what I said in principle, that the basic characteristic of this bill is the ambiguity, indeterminateness and inaccuracy of certain members. I also pointed out to you that the language of the norm, as an essential part of each member, must be clear, accurate and in the spirit of the matter being processed. Let's get back to Article 8. The proposal, which rightly refers to impunity for illegal entry or stay in the Republic of Serbia by persons seeking asylum. That is why I felt it was necessary to specify this by means of legal correct and appropriate terms. That's why I asked you to delete the word "no delay", as an insufficiently specific term, and replace it with the word "no delay" right now. The word "valid reasoning", which is very inaccurate, and what can be widely interpreted, which can lead to numerous abuses, I felt it was necessary to replace the words "valid evidence". Because only a person who provides valid evidence for his illegal entry and stay in the Republic of Serbia, while seeking asylum, can go unpunished. And this may be evidence, therefore, of a written, medical conviction and others, and not a valid explanation, which can lead to numerous abuses. I'm telling you as a practical lawyer, in practice, and even as it's written, a criminal can come from Romania, find refuge in the Republic of Serbia and hold him for 15-20 or 30 days, he gives a valid explanation, I hope you won't believe him. Your argument that my amendment, or amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, is not legally possible, of course, does not stand. He's legally possible. That is what the Legislative Committee said because it is in accordance with the Constitution, it is in accordance with the law, it is clear and precise. But what's behind this? It is hidden, therefore, unlike your proposals, to which you dirty our legal system, unlike us, Serbian radicals, who advocate the purity of legal norms, for their accuracy and for the adoption of clean, precise laws, as taught by the professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and which will be applicable in practice, not selectively or some will never be applied. Therefore, Mr. Minister and the honourable MPs, you should respect this and accept this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11221	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, an amendment submitted by SRS MP Bozidar Koprivica, suggests that it is not the correct definition or formulation of Article 8, which provides and stipulates that a valid explanation is given if someone is seeking entry or entry into the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The right way to overcome this vague norm and its formulation, ladies and gentlemen, is that the competent authority in this procedure must determine the facts, and instead of the proposed definition and norm, that Article 8 should delete the words - without delay. Those words - without delay - are not clear and precise. There should be a word - immediately, and after these words - a valid explanation, as MP Koprivica explained, should be added - valid evidence. You do not have anywhere in the legal terminology in practice, either in the process before any authority, that the competent authority, whether the court, whether it is the authority of the administration, that the norm is defined in this way as proposed - should provide valid evidence rather than a valid explanation. It is now a game of words, although the promoter considered it a valid explanation. I can write you -- a valid explanation on 100 pages, and you can say -- really, this is a valid explanation, because it contains philosophy, psychology, criminology, pathology, or any area. However, in the process of determining the right to asylum, the basic fact is to provide valid evidence, which is the evidence provided by the person to the competent authority. Is it a travel document, is it a personal document, is it a belief in citizenship, is it a personal map, is it a copy of the birth certificate, is it a decision of a foreign body of origin from where the person seeking asylum comes from? That's not an explanation. It's evidence for you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, let's make a difference between reasoning and evidence. What Bozidar Koprivica said, evidence must, as a previous question, be provided to the competent authority. The police's competent authority, on the territory of any police station in our country when a person reports, is a police officer or a police authority who must, as a previous question, ask a person seeking asylum evidence. I wouldn't say it again, it's this evidence I've been talking about, so it's necessary to accept this amendment, because in an authentic way, Mr. Minister, it just proves it's necessary to provide evidence, and when evidence is provided, the competent authority makes a decision. That is why this amendment is really legitimately invested in the name of the SRS, as did the MP Bozidar Koprivica. In my deep conviction, as far as I know the parallel and domestic right of the continental and Anglo-Saxon, the basic postulates when it comes to acting on such and similar occasions are only evidence. An explanation can be given to you on 100 pages, and when you get this explanation, and you do not see from the reasons that authentic evidence arise, not falsified but authentic evidence, in which case the competent authority of the police and the competent asylum commission will have the opportunity to, in a simple manner, without delay, determine whether the conditions requested by the person are met, to grant him asylum in this country, or not. In order not to delay and to avoid delay in the procedure, it is necessary in the beginning to provide evidence immediately to the authority, as that person may be brought into a situation that for a year his request is being walked through the police or the asylum commission and that this man cannot exercise his rights in good time. Secondly, to make it impossible for agents and spies, and for those who break this country, to prevent them from coming and seeking asylum without evidence using forged documents. That is why we believe that this amendment is in order and that it should be accepted, because it improves the text of the law, and it is effective in practice and protects the interests of those asylum seekers and those citizens seeking asylum in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11223	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? National MP Milisav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, for the SPS parliamentary group to be defined in relation to this amendment, I ask for an explanation from Mr. Minister. What's this about? First, the public is doing what this member of the law on which the amendment has been passed, so that the public knows what we're talking about. It's about Article 8. The Asylum Act, which says: "The person seeking asylum will not be punished for illegal entry or stay in the Republic of Serbia, provided that he applies without delay for asylum and gives a valid explanation for his illegal entry or stay. ''So it's about the principle of impunity for illegal entry or stay. It's a bill of law offered by the government. The amendment promoter asks to be said - without delay - in exchange for the word - immediately. I admit that I don't see what's bothering that. The second requirement of the amendment is that the person, when immediately applying for asylum, is obliged to provide a valid explanation for his illegal entry and stay. The Amendment Proposer shall request that, with a valid explanation, it also provide valid evidence. What's my question? Mr. Minister, in response, the Government says: "The Government believes that this amendment is not legally possible for reasons why, if another proposed amendment was adopted (meaning valid evidence), the amended sentence of the message - The person seeking asylum will not be punished for illegal entry or stay in the Republic of Serbia, provided that, without delay (at once), he submits a request for asylum and provides a valid explanation (and valid evidence) for his illegal entry or stay. ''The government continues to say, ''According to the fact that the illegal entry and residence of the asylum-seeking person is already known to the competent authority and it is not necessary for the asylum-seeker to prove it. '"I think there's a misunderstanding here. Why? It is not the essence of the proposed amendment that the asylum seekers prove that they have already entered illegally. That's a fact. Here is the essence of the amendment, as I understand it, that the one who entered, when he was already explaining his illegal entry, provides some proof of that. The government says this amendment is not legally possible. Why isn't it legal? However, the Legislative Committee has said that it is legally possible, but it doesn't matter, the Assembly and it is for us to open the debate here and cross all arguments. So, once again I remind you, Mr. Minister, he doesn't need to prove he's already here illegally. He entered the country, that's a fact and that's not the essence of the amendment. The point of the amendment is that he who seeks asylum must give some reason why he entered the country illegally. If he's already giving an explanation, why wouldn't he support that argument with some evidence if he did? What's a valid explanation? One explanation where we can talk, yesterday there was an opportunity, everyone has an explanation, it's valid what proves, explains, shows, arguments, etc. Doesn't evidence serve as an argument to be valid? For these reasons, in order for the parliamentary group to be defined, please respond – why is this amendment not legally possible? Once again, I warn you, I think the misunderstanding is not proven by the asylum seeker that it is already there, it is a fact, but it proves, in support of a valid argument, which is why he came here. I think it'll be clearer then that all MPs can give themselves up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11225	Thank you. Replica. National MP Petar Jojic, after the amendment by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11226	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP who spoke earlier points to an anomaly. What is now the discussion between institutions or competent entities in this congregation? The committee says the amendment is legally possible. The government says it is not legally possible, or unacceptable in some of its views. Please, do we respect the committee responsible for legislation that has said that this amendment is legally possible? Secondly, if someone has entered our country in an illegal manner, is he to prove, Mr. Minister, his illegal arrival in our country by reason or evidence? Mr. Minister, if someone illegally enters this country, they cannot justify him waving in front of the authorities. He must prove to the evidence that he entered illegally and, as an entity, as a person, must provide reasoned all evidence. That argument without proof is one thing. It's one thing for you. When it is said that he has entered our country illegally, in which case he must provide evidence, not give reasons. The reasons shall not be binding on the decision-making competent authority. The competent authority shall act on evidence and upon request, and his request without proof is one thing. From a legal point of view, that's one thing. How will the competent authority make a decision and say: this Janko Jankovic, or this and that, where did he come from, offer a valid explanation? No, I don't. The authority, which needs to make a decision, must be called upon for evidence, that it has established on the basis of evidence of this and that the person for the reasons provided for by this law has been expelled and no longer enjoys hospitality there, that for political, national and other reasons he has been expelled and forced to enter our country. This must be given evidence, because both of you in the police department and in the courts and other competent authorities of the administration, the decision is based solely on evidence, not formally and formally, that it is not just an explanation. If the decision-making authority makes a decision and says that it and the requesting authority have given a valid explanation, it is one without any evidence it must provide to the competent authority, which arises from international standards and our regulations. The evidence must be firm, decisive, and in the decision of the asylum decision authority must be indicated and specified, that the decision is made on the basis of evidence of this and of the person seeking asylum provided to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11227	Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11228	Just one thing. This is about the person who's in violation. So, it's about a person who's in violation, and the burden of proof, "onus prodigy," is never on anyone who's guilty. The burden of proof is never on anyone who's guilty or guilty.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11229	Replica, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11230	For me, this is something new, Mr. Minister. The one who entered this country illegally must provide evidence, not arguments. On the other hand, the person against whom a criminal case has been brought, or criminal proceedings, or administrative proceedings or customs proceedings, is a participant in the proceedings. He is a participant in the process, as a stranger who has come to our country. I guess he needs some evidence to give whoever needs to decide. That's your subjective opinion. I can tell you, in a particular case, this matter can't be generally identified with hunting and fishing, if you catch a hunter or a fisherman in poaching or fishing, we can't see it that way, not about wine, not about brandy. Mr. Minister, this is not a procedure under the wine and brandy law. This is a procedure where someone who enters this country has to provide evidence. I'm pointing this out because our spies wouldn't do business in this country. It wouldn't have happened if an agent who came to John the other day to Pancheva to search the apartment against the Penal Code of Criminal Procedure. Armed agents came from abroad, and secondly, logistics support was given to him by the security authorities of our country. Searched his apartment, entered with a weapon, took a computer, recorded what was on his computer, which the child watched over the Internet during the night on the computer. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, as competent, whether you have any idea that John the Glamocian three days ago was being searched and attacked by armed persons, that one was a foreign agent, whether the CIA, German or English intelligence services, was with a cop in shoes, jeans and phantoms and armed to the teeth; whether he was in search of John the Glamochans in Pancheva on the street. Veljko Vlahovica No. 11th apartment 14? Have you been informed of that? Does your service know that an illegal search has been carried out? Do you know that no confirmation of entering the apartment has been issued? Do you know there's no record of an apartment search? Do you know the witnesses didn't attend? The Code of Criminal Procedure explicitly determines who can determine the search of the apartment. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the search of the apartment is ordered by the competent court. I ask you a question and I ask you an answer: does the Home Office know what an agent is and who was that officer who spoke Serbian and who spoke English? We want to know, because that man is at risk, and so is his family. I expect from you, you probably don't know that question, but you're going to check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11231	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11232	First of all, Mr. Jojic, you must know that the MUP is not the only authority applying powers. So I don't agree with you calling a cop and he was doing something without a warrant. There are other services in this country that have powers. You'll get a report on this. The term "cop," "police" is often freely used. Another thing, let's get back to the amendment. You want to claim that someone who entered the country illegally has to prove what the state has already established and has established his illegal entry. (Petar Jojic, from the place: Does he have an ID card, passport, name and last name?) ) This State determines in the procedure. You claim that anyone who is in violation should prove his innocence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11233	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the provision of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and concerning the authority of the President of the Assembly and respect for the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So again through the media we learned about our negotiating team's new proposal on the issue of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. It's another example of irresponsibility, inconclusiveness. I remind you that this assembly has adopted a resolution under which the negotiating team is obliged to notify it of everything concerning Kosovo and Metohija's status. We find out through the media. First we had Hong Kong, and now we have the Holland Islands. Not wanting to underestimate anyone, because whoever did this is not important, but I claim that 90% of the people in this parliament, let alone the citizens of Serbia, have not heard of the Icelandic islands, let alone the status of them. That shows unseriousness. I just insist that the president of the Assembly, respecting his obligations under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, request a report and a detailed explanation and schedule a session of the National Assembly, which will deal with the status and future of Kosovo and Metohija in a permanent session. We were also here to witness an unkind event that happened to Mrs. Stojanka Petkovic. There is no Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. You promised, Mr. Milentievich, there will be a session. It's been days. I know you have a private business and your private obligations, you're probably busy, but it's a good thing there's a minister of the interior, because there's a lot going on. As for events in the Serb community, from people of Serbian nationality, I don't know if you've been informed, Mr. Minister, of the illegal routes being made in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to bypass customs, tax and all other obligations. I assume you've been informed that there's been a misdemeanor between two criminal groups at the Brnjak crossing, that a Serbian national boy named Marko Patric has been injured, that there's a smuggling channel there's a private road to bypass the Umnik checkpoint. He shows up at our checkpoint and to bypass UNMIK's checkpoint, then they go through the woods. It's a private trip and a racket is paid. If you want to go that way, pay for the racket. You know who's holding him. There was a gunfight on that road with one victim. To make the paradox bigger, one of those trucks got stuck, and then a residential-communal company came out of the Tooth Creek to rip it out. To make the accident bigger, an oil tank turned into a lake. They don't know what to do with her. If I tell you that one truck or a tanker is worth 10 to 12 thousand euros, that it goes between 15 and 20 a month, then you see what a smuggling is only when it comes to it. (President: Time.) I'm done, I'm sorry. Since Slobodan Vučetic admitted to receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court of 230 thousand dinars, Mr. Minister, it is a criminal offence, so it is, by the way, a question: will criminal charges be filed against him?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11235	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zvonimir Stevic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Associates, I have been pointing out these days and now I want to point out that individuals, institutions and institutions... (President: Please refer to the Rules of Procedure. ) On the basis of Articles 225 and 226. (President: MPs' questions will be at the end, only if you ask for an explanation. I'm looking for an explanation. What I'm about to say cannot wait for parliamentary issues, because it is very important facts that dictate the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I have indicated these days that individuals, institutions and institutions are agreeing on life in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, nothing is being done, but constantly, permanently, every day threatens Serbs to leave their hearths and their homes in Kosovo and Metohija. There's a psychological war and propaganda at work. In fact, OSCE representatives issued a warrant these days, an order in certain municipalities, or the Red Cross in these municipalities, to do all the activities to accept Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija on the night between December 11th and 12th. Such a warrant has been issued for the Red Cross of Vranje, to prepare a space for the admission of six thousand Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I ask here: who gives it to themselves to declare that Kosovo and Metohija are already independent before making any decision, that someone has the right to declare that Kosovo is already independent? This is where Mrs Colundjia said yesterday in her presentation one sentence: "We must co-operate with the UNHCR mission and we must co-operate with the OSCE mission." Is that co-operation? So these negotiations run by our negotiating team are farces. It seems that decisions on Kosovo and Metohija have been taken in some centres of power. If so, I ask the most state authorities, the Government, the President and the Assembly, we, as the SPS, have requested a meeting on the process and the process of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, so that the Assembly will immediately schedule a session and that we discuss this problem. From the MUP, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the rest of the Serbs in KIM, I ask for information and an answer to this question - is it true that UNHCR issued a warrant for certain municipalities, or red crosses in these municipalities to prepare for the admission of displaced persons from KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11237	By amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11238	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it's a misunderstanding. I'm sorry that Minister Jocic came out, and I tried to explain to him here, because apparently his advisors are bad too. It's about the fact that my colleague Koprivica just wanted what the minister said, in other words. It was not the intensity of Mr. Bozidar Koprivica, a folk MP, who, in the first part, wanted to correct this amendment, and then essentially, that he said that it was a person who illegally entered our country's territory that made it impossible for the state authority to know that. It is so obvious that someone did and knows about the state body, but it is said here that this person, having established the competent state authority, has entered and resided illegally in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, enters the asylum procedure. When that person enters the asylum procedure, which is also spoken of by his colleague, Petronijevic, it must also be part of Article 18 to provide some evidence of who he is and what he is. Says the minister - defending himself from it, but I am truly absolutely convinced that he did not understand Mr. Koprivica's amendment, because Mr. Koprivica did not ask that someone to prove that they had come illegally. He's here. He's not crazy to prove he did what he did. No, but then he has to prove who he is and what he is and whether he can get into the asylum procedure according to Article 18. It is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which proposed this law, that you introduce this principle that is your business. The question is how right it is. Some countries that have worked very seriously on the law on asylum and that have followed the application of the law yesterday mentioned Switzerland, but these are laws that come from EU countries and are indeed prescribed in the most part by all members, such as those countries, there is no such principle, because this one is obliged to prove within five days, in fact 72 hours, that is, to provide some evidence of illegal stay in the territory of Switzerland. Last year, the law was passed and the referendum made 70% known to citizens, because 20% of the total population there were foreigners, who in one way or another achieved the right to stay there. They're even rigorous punishments. Which doesn't have this principle, the prison sentence has been increased from nine to 18 months, in case someone doesn't do it within five days. You are now saying - you will not accept to be immediately, but without delay, which is a very flexible term, and on the other hand you do not understand that colleague Koprivica just wanted that someone based on article 18 to provide identification information, information about a family member, about documents issued by the country of origin, the address of the residence, who he is and what he is. He cannot appear and the competent authority knows, he has located him and knows that he is illegally staying, and just now the minister says - it is not on him to prove guilty. There's already been proven guilt that he did it, but you in the article say he's going into the process, and then he can't defend himself by silence, he can't come and shut up about who the mummy is and say, I don't know who I am, or what I am, or where I'm from. Let me tell you something, first of all, the minister would have to know that there is a day-to-day, I believe, and at Nikola Tesla airport are otherwise those who are probably preparing for deportation today, which is exactly how they behave, coming from various countries and defending themselves by silence. How can they enter asylum procedures? I can't do that. He says -- he came, I don't know where he came from, from Sudan, from here, from there, and he says -- I came and I'm quiet, I have no idea who I am, I don't know what I am. You have such, gentlemen of the MUP, I know you, Mr. Todorovic, I don't know who this gentleman who wrongly advises the minister is, but you know very well that there are just such examples. And the state without delay, or right away, which is more termologically correct, deports them or doesn't know where or what to do with them. After a few days, he's been holding them here, he's been here illegally, and what is he, what is he? You can't be so insecure about applying one principle. If you've decided not to punish him, like in Switzerland, a prison of nine or 18 months, any number of days, then you'll have to bring him into a normal procedure. And Article 8, where a colleague submitted the amendment, he's just talking about that he's looking for, he's done this act, he's already come, he's staying illegally, but he's got to get in the process, and when we get in, we can't guess who he is and what he is. He has to give any proof of himself. That's the point, and I don't think the minister understands, I said I would try to give further arguments, and later we'll see if the majority of the assembly will, I urge you, in the voting day, decide to accept the amendment of fellow Koprivica, because it is fully in line with the other principles and members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11239	According to the amendment, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11240	It is very short to say that Mr. Secretary, in his second report, I am now convinced that Mr. Minister and his associates did not understand at all what this was about. The sentence of Mr. Minister – you ask us to prove that man has entered the country – does not deserve any comment. We're not asking that, Mr. Minister, we're asking you to explain to us why you can't ask the asylum-seeking person, but it's in the process that a valid explanation supports something. Maybe you shouldn't, but tell us why you don't need it. That's what we're looking for. Of course, I'd have needed a lot more to pollute, but I wouldn't argue with the bench, since the minister isn't here. I'm not gonna do that, but I also want to say publicly that I'm not just going to take part in the controversy right now because there's no living man I'm going to have to deal with, but also that I wouldn't be misunderstood, Mr. Jocic, Minister of the Ministry of the Interior, is one of the few ministers who respected this assembly and sat here. It's not my ugly minister, it just doesn't make any sense to talk any further. I repeat, I am convinced that both Mr. Minister and his associates have simply not understood what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11241	Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment, please just insert the cards again, it seems to me that the number does not match the number that shows the electronic system. On Article 10 of the same amendment, MP Slavko Jerkovic and MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11242	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good for one of the chairmans, Mr. Obradovic, to remember from time to time that after more of our interventions to remind the MPs that they only have to use identification cards when they are in the O.R., or to take them out when they leave the O.R. After this control in the O.R., only 22 MPs from the ruling coalition are. I'm sorry, I'm getting half the Socialists of 22, eight Socialists, so only 15 MPs from the ruling coalition are interested in the work of this parliament. Just don't be someone now, seeing as how some of these 15 MPs are responding and explaining how they work on a committee, etc. No, no board's working right now. They do cafes and buffets that, I know and we know that according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no need for a certain number of MPs in the hall, which is completely out of the mind and we talked about it when this Rules of Procedure was adopted, and it is possible for only one chairman and one MP to stay in parliament and that this is the session of parliament. So this is just one depression and thank you, Mr. Obradovic, for doing this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to amendment to Article 10, which was submitted by Mr Slavko Jerkovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it is important to say that the amendment refers to the principle of information and legal assistance. In point 2. The proposal for an asylum law, the government's proposal, states that ''a person seeking asylum can use free legal assistance and representation by UNHCR and NGOs whose objectives and actions are aimed at providing legal assistance to refugees. ''The amendment of Mr. Jerkovic refers to the proposal to erase the possibility of providing asylum seekers with free legal assistance from NGOs whose objectives, objectives and actions are aimed at providing legal assistance to refugees. This, respected colleagues, is not an amendment to the legal-technical nature, this is an amendment essentially, and represents the attitude of the SRS towards NGOs, which in the last seven years have been harassing Serbia in the worst possible way. You all know very well that if these NGOs, which are currently present in Serbia, were to ask a more significant question, and unfortunately they are asking a lot, then we would be in a situation where Serbs in Serbia are seeking asylum. That's the role of these NGOs. Unfortunately, again thanks to the assembly majority, we also have a deputy secretary from the NGO, we have a full newspaper two days ago that the NGO is proposing to the government a form of elections at local level, something, he said, which has never been seen before, they don't know what it would be called yet, but the NGO is thinking on behalf of the government and they are making suggestions that the minister not only comment on, but if he were to ask himself, he would accept it. This is unacceptable for the SRS, as well as the government's explanation for why it does not accept this amendment, because the government says ''does not accept the amendment because this member introduces the possibility that asylum seekers use free legal aid and representation, alongside UNHCR, and by NGOs, who have obtained the right to provide legal assistance to refugees in accordance with their objectives. The solution provided for in this provision of the bill says it is not binding, but represents just one more advantage, whose use depends on the will of asylum seekers... ''In particular, because you did not foresee that it was binding, then the minister and government should have accepted the amendment of the SRS, that finally, gentlemen of the ruling coalition and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you begin to learn something clever from the Russian Federation and Mr Putin. You all know the relationship the Russian Federation has taken with NGOs operating in Russia. They can't operate non-governmental organizations financed from abroad, because then they're not NGOs but are the spy organisations of some governments that finance them. It is not good that when it comes to the Russian Federation, we expect Russia to help us preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, God forbid Russia gets bored with this relationship between Serbia and the Serbian government towards Russia, so that Russia raises its hands from Kosovo and Metohija, there would be nothing of our diplomacy, nor of our government, nor would we be able to keep Kosovo and Metohija within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that you from the ruling coalition, even if there are a dozen of you here, every day remind the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it must both be economically and commercially, and politically and however you want to open up to the Russian Federation, to show that we want to be partners with this most powerful country in the world, a country that is able and which has shown the will to help us preserve the Republic of Serbia, but it seems that there is very little effort in Serbia. We listened to it recently every day, and now the representatives of Tadic's Democratic Party, who openly advocated Serbia's entry into NATO, have shut up a little bit. Then last night, I heard on a show, though, this part of Kostunica's government stated that Serbia should not enter NATO, which is of course positive, but last night I was quite shocked to hear from DSS representative Mr Shami, who says that there is no need to link the story of entering the European Union with the story of Kosovo and Metohija's survival in Serbia, and says it cannot be because of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's issue of ending life in Serbia. So Mr Shami does not pay attention to the open threats of nearly 20 EU member states, which openly say he will support Kosovo's secession, but says we still need to go that European way, and what the European Union's relationship to Kosovo and Metohija will be like. If this is the view of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, then, ladies and gentlemen, it's devastating, then we really can't expect any good solution, and that's before we get information from the negotiating team through the media. Daily minors appear with some new ideas on the final resolution of the Kosovo and Metohija issues, Kosovo and Metohija status, and do not appear before the National Assembly. We fear it is not something the MPs of the people and that the citizens of Serbia should not know. So you take this as another invitation to Vojislav Kostunica and the negotiating team to immediately come to the National Assembly, and of course Oliver Dulic, to schedule a session with that agenda, to see how far we've come, what we've achieved, what we can expect. I may have gotten a little off the subject, but I'm not because actually NGOs that, as I said, are spy organisations in Serbia and how they affect the government of the Republic of Serbia. We see this through the bill, and now I ask the promoter -- which is not currently in the O.R., he probably won't come back, although his bag may come back, but I ask him -- does he think that let's say the NGO that owns Sonja Biserko, who's been through the public story about child abuse being disturbed in development, is such an NGO a friend to Serbia and Serbian citizens and can we expect something serious and responsible from her these days? Is the NGO's Fund for Humanitarian Law Natasa Kandic, whose work is described in one part of the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic", can you expect, gentlemen from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition, that such "Fund for Humanitarian Law", of course under quotes, and Natasa Kandic can be of some benefit to the state of Serbia? Of course I can't. Here, I will remind you, since you have mostly received a gift from SRS MPs from this book of Vojislav Seselj and I suppose you have already read it, I will tell you something that is not written in that book and refers to the 1999 work of Natasha Kandic, when a criminal case against some, about 150 I think of Shipara, which I also remind the public, first of all, was released by Vojislav Kostunica, and who immediately returned from Serbian prisons, headed by Fjor Brovin, on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and who, in a good part, included probably in this organization of ANA, which today threatens Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Then Natasa Kandic took over that group of 150-160 Shipara, and in the United States, in the name of that defence, collected a million dollars. A group of Serbian lawyers, a group of Cypriot lawyers, hired. I have information from a lawyer in Belgrade that all of them, on behalf of the job, have received $50,000. Suppose that $50,000 Natasha Kandic also gave these Shiptarian lawyers. So, her, Natasha Kandic, that job left only 900,000 dollars for the poor. Are such NGOs supposed to be subject to our laws? Or, this traitorous piece of junk from Croatia, Milorad Pupovac, who, through some NGO from Croatia and an organisation operating in Serbia, is part of the NGO, who is harassing officials in Serbia's municipalities who are employed in the affairs of the refugee commissioners, where the NGO invites them on behalf of Milorad Pupovac to provide, so these trustees by municipalities, the larger the number of Serbs who would vote for Milorad Pupovac in Croatia. And he says, as much as the number of people who will provide refugees with trustees, against that number, Milorad Pupovac will reward them in cash? Can such things be tolerated, ladies and gentlemen, in the state of Serbia, and still have in the proposal for an asylum law to include NGOs teaching these asylum seekers how to treat the Republic of Serbia and what should they do when asylum seekers come to the Republic of Serbia? For the SRS, ladies and gentlemen, it's unacceptable. We will never vote for such nonsense, not stupidity, this is a treason act, this is what is foreseen, however you react, as provided for in this law, because there are many examples of what NGOs are doing, how NGOs are doing in the government of the Republic of Serbia. After all, it still remains unclear to the extent that the US minister of Serbian foreign affairs, a British government spy in the state of Serbia, is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11243	I would like to thank the applicant for the amendment, Commissioner of the People's Parliament, Verice Radetti. The word has the same amendment, also proposed by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed representatives of the MUP, I'm about to repeat what we've already talked about on the Security Committee. It seems to me that all the allegations that we have made remain, when I say I think of myself and the gentleman from the SRS, who we have submitted in the same text of this amendment. Mrs. Verica Radeta made it quite emotionally and quite truthfully here, which are the reasons that motivate us to submit such an amendment. First of all, I would like to ask you, if you had already wanted to do so, that is, to formulate this member of the law - and I will be free, I hope that you will not consider it an abuse, to bring to all MPs what we have spoken on the Security Committee that this was a reason for the law to adapt to EU requirements, or to be more acceptable to the EU - then I do not understand why you did not enter this same attitude, for example, in Article 12 or in Article 25? You also had the opportunity to do so both in one member and in another, and then to fully trust NGOs that they can participate in an almost overall process of exercising their right to asylum. You see, Article 12 states: 'The person seeking asylum has the right to contact UNHCR officials at all stages of the asylum procedure. ''There we could also write that it has the right in all asylum procedures and to contact NGOs. Also in Article 25, again, not to mention all the points of view, let's say in point 2: 'Before applying for asylum, a foreigner will learn about his rights and obligations, especially the right to stay, free translator, legal aid and the right to access UNHCR. '"There we could put in the same context and the right to access NGOs. I think if you don't accept this amendment to this member of the law, then you would have to, and in order for the law to be consistent at all of its points, you would have to give it the same right in Article. 12 and 25. However, it is not my wish, even on the contrary, to fight for other members to be NGOs, but rather my desire to get out of this article on the 10th is to get this way into law by NGOs. I'd just like to tell you now what our motives are to insist on making such an amendment. Indeed, Mrs. Verica Radeta has already explained the evil that has been done to this country by a large number of NGOs, which are only in their own name. They are mainly government organisations, but not the governments of our country, but the governments of those countries that particularly do not think well of Serbia. As an example, I'd like to remind you of an organization. You're probably familiar with an NGO called Doctors Without Borders. You probably know, most of you, it's just a special question, what all the reports this NGO filed on crimes, primarily as Serbs, allegedly committed by Serbs, and what was true of all of it, and what was invented. Do you have any doubts that Mr. Bernard Kouchner was in charge of this organization? Today, you probably all know, he's the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France. Do you think he was the head of this organization because he just wants to be consistent in his reports and meet the whole world, the whole public world with real events in these areas or is there a task would be? Do you really think he would be the foreign minister of a country like France today without being tasked with it? This is an obvious example of how NGOs, which are only by name, are essentially very significant and possibly funded by foreign governments. So they all had a recommendation and had probably completed certain schools and courses by their intelligence services to work for them through hiding behind NGOs. I would also like to give an example that has cost Serbia some dignity and a reputation in the world. It's a report that was filed a few days ago by the MRDI on the death and torture of children in hospitals that provide children distracted by development. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say that I really don't want to get into the essence of what they wrote and deny it as the truth or confirm it as true. I just want to say that the point and motive of this organization is not what it stands for, because if it were, this report would have been published in June, when this organization visited all the institutions. However, I must tell you that in June the report of this organization was very positive, moreover commended for the efforts of doctors and hospital staff, especially with these children. What happened from June to the end of November, so this report was interpreted in a completely different light? It was not a topic, and it was not the motive of this report to help Serbia and to solve the problem of the children's hospital treatment, but to put another pressure on it in moments of the most important political moment for this people and this country. Please, I'm sorry that Mr. Minister isn't here to reconsider these two amendments, it's one amendment of the SRS MPs and us MPs to help you and to point out the illogicalities, and that this Serbia has once again, by such a bill and by such an article 10, regardless of which of you asked, placed and left on the wind the wishes of NGOs and foreign spy services, which are mostly behind NGOs. I also have to tell you that immediately after the public publication of this report by this NGO MRDI 61 NGO stood behind their report, and none other than the government of Serbia and Minister Rasim Ljajic, who tried to deny the allegations of these organisations, did not stand in defense of what is in the interests of the entire state and what is the minister, the representative of this government... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: There are also the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. ) Well, as far as MPs are concerned, I'm talking about NGOs, because no NGO has taken protection of the state of Serbia, and has taken no protection from those people who have made extra-human efforts, the great sacrifice of taking care of these children and these people. Once again, I ask you, if you are interested in Serbia in the first place, to accept the amendment that we have submitted, because this will really make the people of Serbia no longer think that the government is working against its interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11245	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11246	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, representatives of the ministries, will, above all, use all of its available time to criticise, i.e. to point out all the negativity played by these NGOs, whether the sides, which worked in the former Yugoslavia's area, were domestic, which had operated in the sad system with these NGOs, and the SPS position had already been highlighted by our fellow MP who spoke before me. We just want to remind the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that today there is a new world order in the world that formalises everything that is international and all existing international conventions, and all existing international organisations headed by the UN, whose role today is formalised in the world, the administration of activities ruling in the new world order. Today in the world you have the existence of all those old international conventions that are only formally on paper, which are not respected today. Unfortunately, at a time when they were formed, they were respected or there was a world balance, a balance in force, first of all. Today, when these world balances are gone, they are not respected today. You have new international conventions, international agreements that don't even sign today by these world powers that allow themselves to write conventions, but that they don't follow and thus defend their interests at the expense of those who are weak and who are obedient. For example, the Kyoto Protocol itself, which was presented in public some time ago, what is the essence? The point is that the most powerful forces in the world, first of all America, are cold-blooded -- we will not respect this protocol because it doesn't suit us, it's not our interest. If we were to respect him, we wouldn't be the strongest anymore, our industry would have to stop. It's a kind of demonstration of force, just those most powerful. What about NGOs? In addition, the SPS noted that since these NGOs are in activities, the parties operating in the premises of the former Yugoslavia or the domestics operating in the field with them, that the huge amount of money revolves around these NGOs, and the question of the flow of the money is also a major sign of the issue. And not only is certain money coming back to the financials right now, because these are NGOs that aren't independent, we know perfectly who they depend on, and then the relationship to work is the greatest irresponsibility. In fact, they all have certain tasks and are not there to help any citizens, but rather to push through the interests of those most powerful in the new world order. First of all, their main task until 2000 was to oust some kind of fiction for some of the citizens of Serbia, from the territory of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, to create for them the fiction of a Europe that does not exist, but on behalf of which they do, and even to persuade many citizens to leave Serbia, to go to Europe, to look for their interests there, because they are allegedly not violating human rights. Here is the opportunity, after ten years, for them to choose certain people, and for all those who do not need them to return again to this particular Serbia. Unfortunately, how did they really treat the world's problems, the human rights of the very most powerful? Yesterday we marked World Child Day. It's the day the Convention on the Rights of the Child was declared. Are those rights of children really respected in the world? First of all, the fact that it took 30 years to pass from the moment the Declaration was accepted to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And 19 years later, today we have about 153 million children under the age of five who are on the verge of hunger. Today, we have 6 million children in the world who do not welcome their fifth birthday precisely from death because of hunger and all the complications that arise from malnutrition and diseases that are fatal in these conditions. Today we have 150 million girls and 80 million boys who are victims of sexual abuse. Just so much about the testimony, how they most powerful really treat the rights of the child, and also all other rights of all other people. What happens to these NGOs after 2000? They have achieved their goal, and now they have another goal: to justify in front of the citizens of the world everything that has happened to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, above all, to justify the sanctions imposed unfairly on our country, to justify the bombing that took place, to potential, beyond the UN decision. Mankind stared before such an act and there was just a bombing with radioactive matter, and unfortunately uranium dust and today a car to Serbia is causing many people who are not even aware that they are suffering from it. Well, then, the other unauthorized funds used in this particular bombing. What's reality? How these international organizations work today. Well, above all, the fact is they don't know how many internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija went to Serbia, they don't know exactly how many went to BiH, how far they went to Macedonia's territory. And then how do they solve these people's questions and problems when they don't know, first of all, what kind of numbers they're dealing with? They don't know how many people need to come through the readmission process to Serbia, whether 50 or 150 thousand. Is 100,000 people a non-essential figure for a country in a social situation today that is current in Serbia. What about the violent readings that this democratic Europe is doing? No one in power has said that there have been violent readings precisely from this democratic Europe, from individual countries of democratic Europe. Now I am taking the opportunity to ask a parliamentary question to the people of the Ministry: were there any violent readings and which countries did these violent readings? The SPS is aware of the facts and statements of some people that people came to the reading offices with scars on their bodies, from handcuffs. They came to the reading office of sick children, who could barely stand the journey. There was a child in the early post-operative course, after the skull surgery, when every journey, and especially without the professional people escorted, was extremely dangerous to the life of that child. We have testimony from people who have admitted that up to a third of their sentences have been reduced to sign the law for reading. It's this world today, this image of today's democratic world, and the functioning of certain international and domestic organisations in its functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11247	According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Buh. Since there are two amendments to the total time is double, so 30 minutes, and you've used 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about an amendment to Article 10 on information and legal aid for asylum seekers, I must say that I too need legal assistance. I too need information, as Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, in persecution, as well as all members of the government, as well as all refugees, because they are now in a certain process and do not know what this law will bring them. We in the government have many questions from refugees, the exiles, by Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, who come here today and seek refugee status. I now ask the representatives of the ministry - what will be the legal status of Serbs who come from the Republic of Croatia today and who demand a certain status? Will there be asylum seekers, refugees, expelled persons from the Republic of Croatia? Today we have terror over Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the same issue is raised for exiled persons from Kosovo and Metohija. What regulation will regulate the status of exiled persons in the future? Will they be asylum seekers in their own country? Will there be refugees in your own country? Will there be, we say, exiled faces, exiled faces in our own country? Tell me one country in the world that has that term and that has been exiled. We have them. Absurd of absurds. That's the question, how do you legally explain to a man who asks the most common question -- what status am I here, who am I to address, who is this state body, what is this procedure that I have to do and what is the documentation that I have to deliver to the state authority and when can I expect a solution? I don't know how to answer that. I'm looking for an answer. One more thing, we often use words here - the status of Kosovo and Metohija. That's unconstitutional. Kosovo and Metohija are geographical terms. It is not an international term, regardless of what makes us the international community that we are talking with these very terms. As the Constitution tells us, all we need to talk about is the rights of the Cypriot national minority and the regulation of their rights. It's just this termology. For this speaker, every speaker who says - we resolve the status of Kosovo and Metohija - is a violation of the Constitution and is a violation of a number of legal regulations relating to this very terminology. The international community and the great powers are pushing through such terminology. They've already got the forged solutions. That's why I'm calling you, everyone who comes to this pay phone, to use the terms -- the rights of the Cypriot national minority, just like that, we can't talk about the status, not give us the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11249	Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Defence and Security Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. Since he didn't accept the board of directors, we'll have to make a statement about him in the voting day. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the amendment. Amendment to Article 11. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that the amendment has been accepted and I will say in favour that it was necessary for this amendment to be accepted. Article 11 states: 'A person seeking asylum and not understanding the official language of the procedure will be provided with free translation services in the language of the country of origin, i.e. in a language that can be agreed upon. ''We asked for this to be erased and said, 'that is, in a language that understands. Understanding and communicating are two different things. It's to agree on the whole diapazon of opportunities that someone has when it comes to a foreign language, from that joke when the sieves talk and get muscle inflammation, to the fact that they can stay hungry and thirsty and allegedly agree. You could have seen that farce best in The Hague. For this reason, Professor Vojislav Seselj was to strike to death, because he specifically requested that the material be delivered to him in Serbian and written form, not in some so-called so-called. BHS, how they baptized some new language or new speech. If there were extremely big problems with us about persons who would be treated like this based on this article, to take this as the language of the country of origin that they understand, it could cause extremely big problems. I can give you some examples to get into an absurd situation. You know, let's say, in Montenegro, the official language is now Montenegrin. A few days ago, we had in the paper information that one had even doctored in Montenegrin and that was in Osijek. Branimir Glavas was probably his mentor when he was able to doctor in Montenegrin. Take a Serb from Montenegro, who is politically persecuted because he is a Serb, you have a fact about the parliament of the Montenegrin Parliament, who is threatened to lose Montenegrin citizenship because of political persecution, and he comes to Serbia, and you tell him, we will communicate in the language of the country of origin, and he is in Montenegrin. He ran away because of it from Montenegro, and here you put it on him. It can also happen, according to analogy, to a Serb from Croatia, that a completely stolen language, nakaradan, that I am not just saying that the famous "round-the-recorded pants", let's say that you, like a Serb from Croatia, who escaped from the Ustasha pogrom, put on a Croatian language. That's why we were at the point where we had to make this clear. Don't think I'm just a local patriot, that I'm going to stay on these examples, take problems that will arise very quickly in Western Europe as well. There you have a huge number of citizens of these countries who are very little understood and speak the language of the country in which they live. You have a case in France, England, Germany. These people who came from earlier colonies had the right to citizenship, or passport, were practically ghettoized, their children hardly speak the host language at all, don't go to schools either. Among other things, they also deny certain human rights. You had opportunities some time ago for the entire movement in France to be against the girls of the Muslim religion being banned from wearing scarfs. One of their basic human rights is being denied. You will come into a situation, especially in this situation where this fight against terrorism has been put first and that in the name of this fight against terrorism is done all sorts of things, prisons are established in various countries, those by the CIA, brought by people, tortured, held in custody, to the deployment of missile shields in Poland and the Czech Republic, due to the possibility that some states will allegedly use nuclear warheads. So they're going to fight terrorism, they're going to declare some members, say, Al Qaeda, and that, to the most extent, people who are Muslim religions. It comes to you from France, and he's from a country called Magreb, and you want to go with him because he says "states of origin" here, you agree in French, and he doesn't understand it at all. Or, it comes from England, and there's a large number of people in Pakistan, India, from other colonies that England has held through history, and you put people in a situation that in this way, in no time can you really do what you have to do, which is to agree with it. That's why we asked, it's good that it's accepted, that this is precise and that it's said, 'or in a language that understands', because that's the only way we're going to be able to agree with whoever's in the process and get all the relevant information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11251	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS and I, as the MP of the SRS, have submitted an amendment to Article 13. I propose that this article be changed and should read as follows: “All written documents in the procedure are delivered to a person seeking asylum or his legal representative, in a language he understands. It is writtenly considered to have been delivered when it was received by an asylum-seeking person." Obviously, the promoter had no experience, and I'll tell you from my long experience, I've been doing legal work for decades, it doesn't matter who and when it's written, especially when it comes to the interests of asylum seekers. What are we going to do with those millions of Serbs expelled from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, BiH, Croatia, and what are we going to do with those who have been expelled from their country, from the queen of Kosovo and Metohija? The rights and interests of our citizens in particular, as well as those of citizens who are guaranteed their rights by international standards, should be exercised, and our country wants to join the European Community, and wants citizens and persons seeking asylum to exercise those rights and meet international standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will tell you from practice that there are unwitting advocates who accepts in writing, and this can be of crucial importance in writing whether this person seeking asylum will exercise his right, because if the proxies miss the action that the competent authority is seeking to perform and prove to the asylum seekers, what can you fix if that citizen's representative has been unconscious, missed that shop, and there has been irrefutable damage to that asylum-seeking person? We believe that the letters should be delivered to both the representative and the person seeking asylum. When, though, should it be considered that it is written and that the person seeking asylum has been informed? Those two things shouldn't be connected right now. The letters may also be sent to the representative, the lawyer and the person seeking asylum, but the authority deciding on an asylum application must consider that the person has been informed and received in writing only if he was personally received and signed by the representative, or directly accepted on the counter or in the premises of the decision-making authority. It's the only way it won't do any harm, and the person seeking asylum, if he misses that shop, is responsible for why he couldn't exercise his right. This is particularly important, ladies and gentlemen, the professional public knows that the pre-inclusive deadline means – if the law stipulates that a complaint must be made within that deadline, and if it is obtained by an agent, then the representative goes to Hawaii or Dubai, although he has received, goes on the road, misses the store, does not file a complaint, does not provide evidence to the decision-making authority, in which case the person, not knowing that his representative was unconscious and irresponsible, has no compensation. What will the asylum lawyer do now if the lawyer has received that call or received a submission, especially a submission with a pre-inclusive deadline? What's a person looking for asylum against taking over? He can't do anything. It may be possible, if he is in the profession of a lawyer, to inform the Bar Association to initiate a disciplinary action against an irresponsible lawyer who has caused a failure to harm an asylum lawyer and an asylum lawyer, or a person seeking asylum, he has no further right to participate in the proceedings. His subsequent submission will be considered absolutely untimely, possibly by an unauthorized person. As a lawyer and a lawyer, I can tell you that in practice I've had countless cases where people who were sentenced to 10, 15 and 20 years in prison, that some irresponsible advocates and defenders failed to file a complaint, that the person who was convicted had filed an appeal and knew in good time that his lawyer hadn't filed an appeal, his sentence wouldn't be 10 years, it might be five, it might even be a liberating verdict. Now I'm practically telling you what's going on. The lawyer has an intern, goes on vacation, an intern or some face he says, a cleaning lady, receives a mail that arrives at the office. There goes a lawyer on vacation, a person makes sure he has an attorney. Well, it's a great honor to have a life-saving lawyer, but there are people who miss, for all sorts of reasons. What's that man gonna do now? How can he restore everything to its original state? He can't, because he missed. It will be determined by the art of having someone in the office receive, that the lawyer has received, but has forgotten, has gone to the wedding, to the glory, abroad, to the sea. Look, it's serious stuff. That is why I, ladies and gentlemen, consider the SRS and I as a lawyer to have been deemed to have been delivered in writing only if it was personally received by that citizen and by that person to whom the rights and obligations laid down in that submission are concerned. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate all the believers who celebrate Arangelovday. Serbian radicals want them to celebrate this fame in peace and freedom, and in the future, in the greater democracy and greater prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11253	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Security adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11254	Mr. Vice President, you are truly qualified to lead the Assembly, not just this one, but perhaps the Assembly and the UN. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 14 of the proposal, it may be reckless and omak precise and defined in paragraph 1 that the person seeking asylum will ensure that the person of the same sex is heard, etc., that I do not list. However, the legal-language, grammatical and definition in our opinion should be as follows: in Article 14 paragraph 1, the words "will be provided" are replaced by the words "will be provided". That's grammar, logic, definition quite clearly, and I think the promoter realized that it was a slip most likely, and the proposer accepted the amendment of the MP, Miss Natasha Jovanovic, which was quite logical. On the other hand, it is observed that even the proposings, which happened in the Constitutional Court law, and this is happening and I see that the relationship between the SRS and those who propose the laws is changing, above all, to respect the amendments of the SRS. Why are they respecting us? Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you appreciate that you have fully noticed that our amendments are legally defined in the right sense to help build up and that better texts of certain norms regulate grammatically, legally and in any case accepted amendment has been accepted with perfectly justified reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11255	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is proposing to delete the word "minister" in Article 19(3) and to take over the ministry in this article. The law states the Asylum Office, Article 19: ''By requiring asylum and termination of that right, in the first degree the procedure leads and all decisions are made by the competent organisational unit of the MUP (hereinafter referred to as: the Asylum Office). Authorised asylum officials in the Asylum Office are specially trained to carry out these tasks. The Minister of the Interior (hereinafter: Minister), with his act, regulates conditions and criteria for officials performing tasks at the Asylum Office. ''We suggest that the word 'Minister' be deleted and all activities taken over by the Ministry. What we are proposing makes sense, and now I will comment on it: this article is from the 3rd chapter of this asylum law, and we believe that you should accept these proposals, so that it does not happen that the minister has great powers and that through these powers there is an abuse of jurisdiction regarding this member who regulates the asylum office system. We know that the old 1980 law has been overcome and that it needs to undergo certain changes. We, as the Serbian Radical Party, presented these changes to this assembly in the January amendments, to which we want this law to be corrected in a positive sense. Every stranger in our country should be valued in accordance with the applicable laws and must not experience any discrimination, and regarding his desire to take refuge in our country. I said we had a lot of experience regarding the powers of the ministers themselves and these experiences were seen mainly in a bad context, and left a bad story for the state and the citizens. We will take, for example, how Gaso Knezevic, a former minister of education, abused his ministerial position and thus caused irreparable damage to our education and to the young people who are to lead this country. I will give you another example concerning the Ministry of Defence: the former defence minister was Boris Tadic. He led his ministerial procedures to the fact that today's army no longer resembles an army, but an ordinary group of people who are not meant to defend their country. Boris Tadic, among other things, wanted his group to join NATO, allowing NATO's alliance to take full power over Serbia. We have such examples, for example, and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic has abused as finance minister of many responsibilities and thus led Serbia to bankruptcy, i.e. we know who is ruling Serbia's banking system today. Then we have further Mrs. Dulic, who, as Minister of Agriculture, has brought her abuses in a similar or similar way as she is proposed here in asylum to bring her to agriculture today. I'll give you just a few examples, so no agriculture has anything to do with this asylum law, but we believe that by today in the country of Serbia, about 400,000 hectares under the wheat have been sown, and the projected variant is about 650,000. So these are just examples of these abuses of ministers who today and in some previous time could use their authority. For these and similar reasons, I suggest that the minister accept this amendment to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11257	I thank the MP, Plužarevic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11258	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been insulted lately by a rule that through legal acts, some inconsistencies and inconsistencies are being brought forward through the bill of law which will allow many manipulations the next day. Just now, my predecessor, Mr. Plužarevic, who otherwise submitted the amendment, mentioned Mr. Dinkic and said who is responsible for the situation in Serbia. Let me remind you before I move on to the amendment, for economics, Serbia's financial collapse is blamed for Dinkic and his uncle; Serbia's citizens will soon know who his uncle is. Like I said, there's a possibility of manipulation going through indiscretions. Here, Article 19(2), which MP Plužarevic in his amendment asks to be deleted, reads: 'The authorised officials who conduct the asylum procedure at the Asylum Office are specially qualified to carry out these tasks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, through this they are specially trained, two possibilities. The first -- that it will now be later paid, that some courses are being prepared again by some NGOs, and we have had the opportunity to have these NGOs almost impose on us here to teach Soroš's listeners a lecture from democracy. So there is a possibility that a portion of the money from Serbia's budget, designated for the interior ministry, will be poured into NGOs, into some courses, schools, and then we will get instead of the professor's expert. Another danger-- that no one who doesn't finish that course of theirs can do this job. If it's business dealing with secondary expertise, isn't secondary vocational education enough? What else does it take to get someone to do these jobs tomorrow, which are usually tight? In two days, a man can learn by himself with the help of a manual. No, but this will allow some to be employed in this asylum office, in addition to the professional training and this Sorosevski course, there will have to be party identification of a particular colour. However, the coalition has no color, it only smells unpleasant. Another thing that appears precisely in this article 19th and Mr. Plužarevic has also pointed to it, and here for the last five or six years this has been going through every law: the minister will make a decision. We're making a man out of a civil servant institution. I guess the Ministry of Institutions and the MUP existed, there will be. The minister is a passing figure. He's here today. He can't be here tomorrow. What happens if the minister goes hunting, I hear he's hunting, and he has to make this decision, to prescribe? What happens if the next minister is not a hunter but a fisherman? What happens if the minister goes to sick leave? Will the deputies and deputies then? And another rule has been insulted in this one, especially in this government. Since we have those state secretaries, these are former deputy ministers, then we have ministerial assistants, and now it's one, two, three, deputy secretary of state, but that's why they opened a wide door to set up an assistant. I recently read that one minister has 42 assistants. But Baba had 40 assistants, and this one exceeded Ali Baba. The more assistant-resor in an increasingly difficult situation. So don't make an institution of the minister. The Ministry is an institution. The minister is a person, the minister is a state official, the minister is variable, the minister cannot have that kind of authority. That is why I propose that the ruling coalition adopt this amendment in the voting day, to press the green button to adopt this amendment, because this amendment greatly improves this otherwise very bad text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11259	I thank MP Momir Markovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11260	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. So that there may be no confusion and we may not be misread, since we spoke yesterday and today about the hobby of Minister Jocic, his hobby is generally known as hunting. Of course, we have nothing against that hobby, nothing against the hunters, nothing against the fishermen, but we do have a problem with the Minister of Hobbies maybe subdue what he does, because all the hunters are good hosts and go hunting when they complete those obligations they have in their own home, in their family. I'm saying this wasn't misread that we had something against hunters. Also, all serious hunters make sure they don't play with hunting weapons in their homes or offices, etc. In that sense were our objections to Mr. Jocic, who said it would be an hour, but it was only ten minutes. But, okay. So, I submitted an amendment to Article 20 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and Article 20 concerns the asylum commission and what rights, duties, obligations of the asylum commission. We have suggested that, since this member has seven positions, after the first addition of Article 2 which would say that an administrative dispute can be initiated against the asylum commission's resolution before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, because the bill requires that the asylum commission decide in the second degree on the asylum office's decisions, which makes it the commission, the president and eight members, appointed by the government for a period of four years. There's nothing controversial about this part, but it's very questionable why you didn't think of it, and if you haven't already thought of it as a proposal, then what's the real reason why you don't want to accept this amendment. What you wrote in your explanation why the government does not accept this amendment is not an essential explanation. You are here saying that the Government does not accept this amendment, given that the constitutional provision of Article 198(2) provides that the legality, final individual acts, which are to be decided on by law, obligation or by law based on interest, is subject to review before a court in a administrative dispute, unless otherwise provided by law. So you're saying that, in the government's view, it is not legally possible to prescribe this kind of judicial protection, which is otherwise allowed in relation to final first-degree solutions in the asylum procedure, and it is also not possible to rule out. So, gentlemen, the government hasn't given us a fundamental explanation why the amendment doesn't accept, because on the contrary, the government says it's not legally possible, and we claim it is legally possible, but the government won't. That's what's in this further part of the argument, because the government itself tells us that it can, but that's the government's estimate, it's okay to quote what you quoted, which is a quoted article in Section 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but this member and that position 2 are in no way a legal obstacle to this kind of legal correction. We don't understand why you have such a relationship. In fact, we understand, since you've already involved NGOs through these previous members, then you don't want the court to continue to deal with this kind of work, to end it at the level of the commission, the offices and commissions, who will be members of the commission, from which NGOs. It is something that you may not know either, but certainly someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows and therefore you want to rule out the possibility of discussing these matters and the court of jurisdiction, and that, completely, normally, the last is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. We simply think that it is necessary to provide judicial protection for asylum seekers, just as it is prescribed in many countries abroad. So, in parallel international law, these cases are absolutely familiar. We would love it if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the absent Minister Jocic, told us what is actually a fundamental reason, which is why it protects the court from the work to be done, which I do not believe is the case, or why the Commission's decision and the asylum offices are being protected from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, which we think is the case? The problem of asylum is not harmless at all, especially as we in the SRS see it, and whenever we talk about this law and any member of this law, we always put refugees and exiled persons in the first place, our countrymen, Serbs, who came from Republika Srpska, are actually expelled from their centuries-old hearths by Ustasha, the Croatian authorities. We think of Serbs who had to leave Kosovo and Metohija, who, unfortunately, are still doing so today under the threat of any terrorist organisation, primarily the one that is known as ANA. We think of Serbs from BiH territory and I have a need every time, and each of us has such a need to tell you about it because you, dear colleagues, know nothing about the lives of these people. You don't know because you don't care. Is it even understandable and acceptable that after 10, 12 or 15 years of family life in some kind of so-called. collective accommodations, where there are absolutely no living conditions, where a normal man or an animal wouldn't frame. Such, unfortunately, collective accommodations in Serbia are still quite a number. The government is not taking care of that part of Serbia's citizens. Some are Serbian citizens because they have citizenship, some are Serbian citizens because refugee fate, or exile, has brought them to Serbia. Anyway, everyone was, and those who, in the meantime, managed to find their way around, came here as exiled, avoided, expelled, and that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia should take care of. These are citizens whom the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by its relationship with them, classifies as citizens of the second, third, or I don't know which order. The attitude of Serbian radicals towards that part of the population of the Republic of Serbia is completely opposite. On the contrary, the SRS is at a time when the campaign of persecution from Republika Srpska is, above all, thinking of the actions "Blash" and "Storm", when and wherever it was, where we had power in the municipalities at that time, we provided for these people and, let's say, we formed three settlements in the territory of the municipality where these people who were exiled, exiled. At that time we had power in Temerin municipality and there we formed a settlement, where refugees were exclusively exiled and exiled. We repeat, and we will always repeat that, even if it were boring for you, that at that time every municipality in Serbia did what it did, say, the Zemun municipality, whose president was then Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj, we would not have had collective accommodations or problems with those people. In fact, we have no problems with them, but they have problems with the state of Serbia. I also remind you of a period when these people couldn't get citizenship for a year, two, three, four, so when they were told that the archive was burned, they had to re-apply. So they wait again for several months or years, so they changed places where these demands were filed, so that for a while everyone, wherever they were in Serbia, had to come to the MUP at the republican level of Belgrade. In so many ways these people have been harassed, and today they are harassed, that it is really unacceptable in the state of Serbia. We must not act that when we need to ask for their help in the election campaign to say: you are our citizens, we love you, we will do anything for you, just vote for us. And when you're the government and you're passing laws, then you don't want to protect them through this asylum law, at least give them proper legal assistance, so I don't go back to the one you offered them in one member, where you offered them the legal assistance of NGOs. Speaking of courts and parliamentary majority relations to courts, these days we were talking about the judge, the President of the Constitutional Court, I don't know whether the former or current, Slobodan Vučetić, and we talked about him being retired since September last year, and he's been getting paid all the time. I would like to remind you, Mr. Vučetic addressed the public via one agency, and the agency's website is where he informs the public that he sent a telegram to Mr. Oliver Dulic, where he asks the President of the Assembly to put his resolution on the agenda, so on the occasion of that news, I did a little bit of going through the papers and materials we received in the meantime and found that for a session held on September 5th or 6th 2006, when only the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget was on the agenda. In that list of acts received by the MPs, I saw and we were all able to see that that was the time when Slobodan Vučetić was put on the agenda and the resolution of the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Why this is not put on the agenda, it can only be answered by Oliver Dulic, but according to what we have come to know is that Mr. Dulic has all the acts he has found, which have not passed the assembly procedure, in his cabinet, and for which he was in charge of the previous parliament president, Mr. Predrag Markovic, has brought everything down nicely in the archives. He wasn't looking at what it was, or whether it was the laws that expired, so the government is going to re-propose them, which is fine, but let's just say, what he did, what happened, this is unacceptable and this is a terrible disgrace to the National Assembly thanks to Oliver Dulic. When he comes back from the white world, he'll have to explain to us why it happened. On the other hand, this does not justify Mr. Slobodan Vučetić’s continued pay, being made crazy, and being well-paid by the President of the Constitutional Court, so he remembered to remind Oliver Dulic of this only when the MPs from this place began to call him because he retired regulated by another act, or regulations regulated by the PIO. Mr Vučetic was under obligation to be officially retired for more than a year and to receive a pension instead of a salary. So, the fact that Mr. Vučetic tried to protect himself and blame all the blame on the National Assembly is absolutely wrong, we are still claiming that he was committing a crime because he was getting paid and he obtained retirement conditions, but we are also calling and we will call Mr. Dulic to explain to us why, in accordance with Article 80. Rules of Procedure, we have not released Mr Vučetic from office as President of the Constitutional Court in good time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11261	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Vereca Radetti. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Amendment Proposer, National MP Mr Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mr. Minister cannot sit here and listen to what the MPs tell him because of his semi-private obligations. None of us mean anything to him, we just want to get him to write the best laws and do his job better as interior minister. As for the amendment I submitted to Article 20. The proposal for an asylum law is about the commission and the way in which the members of the commission, i.e. the conditions that members of the commission must meet in order to be members of the commission. The position 1 states that the commission is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the commission is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget in a second position, says in its third position -- a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, a graduate lawyer who has at least five years of working experience in the profession and knows the rules in the field of human rights, can be elected to the President and a member of the asylum commission. The government has rejected the amendment in which I asked for this part of the text - and knows the regulations in the field of human rights - to be deleted. The reason for the Government is the following - the amendment is not accepted because it is not entirely necessary to delete the conditions for the selection of members of the Asylum Commission relating to the knowledge of the human rights rules for a greater degree of expertise of these persons, since it is a second-degree body in the asylum process, as well as for the specific situation of asylum seekers. I ask one question - how are you going to determine how this person who will be chairman of the committee or member knows the rules in the field of human rights? Let's show me a way, since the minister isn't here, but tell him that we'd like to know how and how you're going to find out. Let's take a look at what it says before that text. It says he has to be a graduate lawyer and he has to have five years of work experience in the profession when it comes to law. I haven't studied law school, but I believe it's regulated by some law school class. Could he be a graduate lawyer if he didn't finish law school? Of course he couldn't, unless he bought a diploma. But you've seen that it's the job of some special departments, they like to buy diplomas, which the Home Secretary is taking out, and we'll do a little bit later on about them. Are you going as a criterion to be objects that study human rights regulations, to look for indices from candidates, to check what grades they got from these items and say -- you can't, you can't. Come on, explain the criteria to me. To go a little different in logic, which is more likely for me, which is the fact that in the 1990s there was a large number of NGOs here in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and then the SRJ. All of these NGOs were funded by governments that participated in SRJ sanctions proposals from 1992 to 1995, the external wall of SRJ sanctions, which, due to allegedly and absolutely certainly invented human rights violations, put Serbia on the blacklist, caused NATO intervention, and now almost all police officers and soldiers who were in charge, due to the work of NGOs financed by foreign governments, are being tried in The Hague or in front of some of the domestic special courts. The need for NGOs to receive money from abroad has ceased. What are you going to do with these people? And the UN tribunal is abolished in a few years and almost, no more. There are now some agencies, so you have invented a very large number of agencies that are also on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now there's this asylum commission. Who are you going to put as chairman of the committee? Who do you think best meets the conditions? Well, Natasha Kandic. There is no greater human rights fighter and the abolition of human rights for Serbs than Natasa Kandic. Since asylum seekers are concerned, they will certainly not be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and she will take care of everyone except the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, she would be the best president of the Asylum Commission. Delete this part, this is pure nonsense and accept this amendment. As for Mr. Minister's performance here at the beginning of this morning's session, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I am quite surprised by the things that the interior minister brings here at the assembly speaker and sends as a message to the citizens of Serbia. I can't understand that the minister for something the ministry doesn't do, and by law they're bound to, justice by the existence of a special court, a special prosecutor's office, so he says, ask them. Or if they tell me to, I'll process it. Members of the MUP, no matter what crime it is, by their own knowledge, without orders, must act. That's why they're being paid by Serbian citizens. For that. It is a shame to ask the parliamentary question - whether an arrest warrant has been issued for some person, the minister responds to the MPs that he does not know because it is an object that is headed by a special court and prosecutor's office. The special prosecutor is under direct control and command of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and this one is under the control of the interior minister, the government and other ministers from the government. The Home Secretary can't say he doesn't know. If he can't co-operate with the Republic Public Prosecutor, he can change it or resign. One more thing, don't insult our intelligence, because if it says it doesn't know if an APB is being called, who needs the person the BOLO was called for to bring in unless it belongs to the M.O.P. Who? Some kind of parapolitan force. We've heard there are some here now. Who provides the state border? He's not an army anymore, he's the police now. Jocic cannot be treated by the MPs, nor by the citizens of Serbia. I ask the question -- why are the police gradually starting to intimidate the citizens of Serbia. What do you want? Cooperation with the police. It's not done by intimidation. That's not going to happen to any police. You're starting to intimidate the citizens of Serbia. You're starting slowly, but you're doing it in thought. Anyone who understands that a little bit will see that you're doing it in school, in your textbook. For members of business crime, no arrests, I don't care, whatever parties they're from, whatever town they're from. Arrest them with phantoms. Are those faces prone to violence? What are they? Business crime. Anyone who understands a little bit about police work will say, these are people who rob the state and citizens with papers. You phantoms and you say, it had to be like that, all of a sudden, and you run TV cameras. Let's think about it, why is the minister doing it? What's his goal? I asked if it was co-operation with the police, and I doubt if the citizens would cooperate with the police, first the police have to earn their respect. How will they gain their respect? When you arrest all criminals close to the top of the state. Thus, police gain respect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by intimidation. Minister Jocic told this speaker that the police are not all-powerful. I agree, but it's extremely powerful. When she broke up the empire of Bogoljub Karic, I'm pretty sure she can break up an empire that's been acquired in an illegal way, anyone. The fact is that it's done selectively, that you won't, because if you wouldn't let Canet Frog escape the country, you wouldn't let the empire of Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic still work in these areas. That the minister does not want those two criminals to end up in prison is the fact that all the officers who participated in the collection of evidence against the two or transferred to jobs are quite different, away from the place of residence, or are retired, or are expelled from the police. Don't say it's not like that. Start, gentlemen of the police to do your job, which is that no matter how much they robbed, whose foreigners they belonged to and who they shared the money with, you arrest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11263	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, after the amendment, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article is written so broadly and I can only interpret it in a way that is adapted to what is written here, because it is required that, as counterpart Arsic said, a person who will work in the Asylum Commission be a graduate lawyer who has at least five years of working experience in the profession. Look what he says, he knows the regulations in the field of human rights. I don't know if you intend to hire one of the SRS MPs at the Asylum Commission, Radeta can't really accept that work, can't colleague Jerkovic, can't colleague Krasic, co-worker Sreto Peric can't, can't colleague Aleksandar Vucic, can't accept Mr Petar Jojic, can't accept Mr Koprivica, and these are the only lawyers with experience, who know the area of human rights, and other members of the SRS, and respected, but not those who have come to the wings of the bulldozer revolution, but the professors of the Faculty of Law and academics, as well as various other individuals who appear, lawyers, at the scientific meetings of the SRS, where we have interpreted the human rights of Serbian citizens who are located in the anti-Serbia. I wish Minister Jocic was here to explain to us what the criteria would be to assess. This is clear to me, to bring a degree in law school, to prove he's got five years of work experience. How would Minister Jocic, as the minister here says, and not the ministry, be the remark of counterpart Markovic earlier, to assess which one of them is understood in the area of human rights? The area of human rights certainly understands all these Serbian radicals that I have listed, because they are on a team that helps defend the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. And how do you understand that someone who's a servant? Imagine when in the field of human rights is not understood by that Vukcevic mentioned earlier, which, as Mr Nikolic said, is more of a place than a courtroom, and rhymes. Then you're saying now that it's understood in the field of human rights, and they don't care about the rights of a man who, and that's the president of our party, is on the justice of God for five years there. You've seen and you know, like the whole public, the whole world, that he's going to run down and he's already crushed the entire Hague tribunal. His truth and, above all, his knowledge will be completely in the initials to break the UN tribunal's prosecutors. After all, Mr. Jojic gave a lecture last week in one of his brilliant performances in the same office of Vukčević, that unfortunate person, Kristina Dahl, and told her how to work the sea for those who think that in any way they oppose not only the Serbian radicals but all the patriots and all the people who fight and fought for the freedom of our people. When Mr. Petar Jojic, who was the federal justice minister, who first qualified and told who Carla del Ponte was and called his real name last week, explained to that unfortunate Kristina Dahl that she knew nothing, that she had no idea how they were being questioned and what kind of testimony people could give here, that she would get a criminal report from anyone who in such a way, he talked about it this morning and at press conferences, trying to violate the human rights of Serbian citizens, famous Chetnic dukes and other people who were volunteers of the SRS. Then they need to know who they're dealing with. You're now planning to hire people who have this conditioned qualification, and they have no idea about human rights. The minister, whose portfolio it was until yesterday, does not understand at all, this Rasim Ljajic. If he understood that, he would have done what he was supposed to do all these years. No, but he, along with Kostunica's government and the other service corps according to the freak Carly del Ponte, delivered everything she asked for, and on the other hand, on the other hand, a number of requests by the team that helped defend Prof. Vojislav Seselj were deafening, not only him but also other competent state authorities who were obliged to do their job. They thought that this kind of obstruction would dissuade the possibility of him getting ready, defending himself and defending himself. You saw that I couldn't. Only four hours were enough to strengthen the spirit of not only the Serb people, but also members of the national minorities. Let your colleague Otto Kishmarton tell you that his compatriots in Vojvodina welcomed Dr Vojislav Seselj's statement and that it was welcomed by other representatives of other religions and national minorities, because he was only telling the truth, which is that Serbs, the most suffering people in these areas, and other of our citizens who live here are killed because of such a policy that is personified by those who understand God in human rights. I must refer you to this, gentlemen of the MUP, there is no other way to take and study what anyone was saying at these gatherings, they were mostly held at the Sava Center, and these were respected scientists and human rights scientists who came to the SRS. If you are not satisfied with the words of excellent lawyers, if you do not have enough of the elaborates they have submitted to our public, participating in these meetings, then I do not know how you will assess, because someone can tell you "I understand myself in human rights by studying the European Convention on Human Rights", and last year none of those lawyers who understand each other, and are not from this Patriot Corps, did not report that they are being declared because one man's rights are being violated, or the president of our party. My colleague, you understand something else, but that's a question we'll discuss when the laws come to the agenda from your area, but as a fellow MP, you might also be able to come forward when anyone's human rights are violated, let alone the rights of a man who has voluntarily gone to defend himself and will defend himself, be assured of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11265	Mr. Jojic, the SRS no longer has time for this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not be long, given that the only fact that the ruling coalition has realised that Serbian radicals are improving the text of certain draft laws. I just wanted to say that by accepting this amendment, the SRS improves the texts of the bill, and it is normal that good proposals should be accepted. This should be used and put into practice in the future work of this Parliament. That's why I have no intention of further explaining this amendment, I just want to say that this amendment to the SRS improves the text of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11267	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11268	I heard from fellow MP Vukovic that he would vote for this amendment of mine. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister in absentia, just for a brief reminder to say that the SRS has submitted 33 amendments and two amendments to the asylum bill. This law is abundant in a number of grammatical and spelling irregularities. I don't want to say it, but it may well be concluded that a certain number of MPs haven't even read this law. If I could, I'd like to submit an amendment to an explanation given by the Government for not accepting the amendments I submitted to Article 22 on behalf of the SRS. Just one sentence in that explanation: "Explaining the intention of seeking asylum, whether verbally or in writing, is the moment in which the obligation is made... ". I don't know who could understand what the government was trying to say to this part of the argument. By amendment to Article 22, which I have submitted, I suggest that article 1 of Article 22 be changed completely. I will read an existing member of the proposal: "When border control enters the Republic of Serbia, or within its territory, a stranger can ordinarily or in writing express his intention to seek asylum before an authorised police officer of the MUP." We have suggested that this position be deleted and changed by the following, which reads: "When border control enters the Republic of Serbia, or within its territory, a stranger can take a written path to seek asylum in every police station, or police station, in front of an authorised police officer of the MUP." The government's argument of not accepting the amendment states: "The government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the proposed amendment, if adopted, would significantly worsen the situation of a refugee who immediately does not submit a written application for asylum. Expressing the intention to seek asylum, whether or not verbally or in writing, is the moment when the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to provide a refugee or another foreigner who enjoys international protection, from the moment of knowledge that such a person is located in its territory, enables a stay and provides a certain degree of protection and at such short intervals until the formal initiation of the asylum proceedings before an authorised person of the Asylum Office, who is specially qualified to conduct the procedure and work with asylum seekers. Otherwise, at the time of entry into the Republic of Serbia to the formal submission of a written request for the initiation of the asylum procedure, the refugees would be in Serbia's territory in uncertain status and without the protection that belongs to him under international law." The SRS concept, related to the asylum law and that proposed by the government, whose authorised representative is Interior Minister Mr Jocic, differs greatly. In the light of this law, it is stated that the adoption of the asylum law constitutes one of the conditions of accession to the European Union. The SRS believes that this law should not at any time be bound to join the EU, that war and many other events in this area and in our immediate environment have led to a large number of persons who need to ensure asylum status. There were many MPs in the SRS who spoke, who are human people and have understanding for those who do not have a solution to that status, but to a good extent both in the debate in principle and in the majority of amendments, said Mr Milorad Buha, who, in addition to being an SRS MP, and the president of the Republika Srpska government in persecution. He understands this issue in the best way, and he is a man who has felt all these problems personally on his skin, and therefore everything he has told you, besides us MPs who have submitted amendments and we explain them in detail and thoroughly, should have much more understanding for this. Of the 35 amendments submitted, it was initially accepted four and later in today's debate two more, which is unacceptable and very little. We have another relationship with persons who are to receive asylum, and we regulate it in such a way that we have tried to extend all deadlines concerning the official, official authorities of the Republic of Serbia to our amendments, while the deadlines relating to asylum seekers extend to one reasonable period, so that they can achieve their right to do so and regulate it. The authorities envisaged under this law for the treatment of asylum seekers are the Asylum Office, the Asylum Commission and the Asylum Centre. It is said in not accepting my amendment that it should not be done by police administrations and police stations, but by the authorities provided for in this law. I'm absolutely sure the Asylum Office won't exist in all those places where there are police departments, or police stations. Faces can come in need of resolving their status when entering the Republic of Serbia, and can be found elsewhere in Serbia. I'm sure there won't be an asylum office in Pecka, next to Osecina, but there's a police department and a person who finds himself in that place will be able to get in the process to solve this problem. It is necessary to accept this amendment in order to resolve more effectively any problems that may arise in the process before the official authorities, or bodies provided for by this law. We insisted that the person who wants to solve his problem, or to resolve the status, should also file a written request, not verbally, or in any other way, and will not deny his deadlines. His right to resolve this status by giving a declaration of intent to accept, that is, to seek asylum in writing, is already running out of time to which she has the right to acquire asylum status, which in no case delays his right to do so. It is still to be concluded that certain EU bodies participated in the writing of this law, as you saw in Article 10, which was submitted by fellow Members Slavko Jerkovic's amendment, that you, in the position of Article 10, provided that the person had the right to be represented free of charge by NGOs. That's what the esteemed colleague of the Witch of Radeta was talking about, so I'm not going to say it again. But yesterday, Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, told you what kind of faces we have in the government of the Republic of Serbia, or who daily enter the premises of certain ministries. We express a certain concern who could get involved in solving these problems, as well as in what way. All this can lead to negative consequences for asylum seekers, and for the Republic of Serbia as a state. Finally, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Assembly, I would like to get one notice, not only will I be calling for it from the Minister of the Interior, nor does the Ministry of Economy, because when giving an answer, or an explanation to certain parliamentary questions, the authority to which the question or the requested explanation is being referred says – we do not have it in the process, we are not informed, we did not know what it was about, and that kind of answer returned to the MP, which is unacceptable and unacceptable. During today's session, I received a message, i.e. a telephone call to exist in certain places in Serbia, whether it is called either by a similar name, the Civil Democratic Party of Serbia, which makes lists of people who want to buy actions or participate in the allocation of actions in public enterprises, all doing so with a certain amount of cash compensation. I ask the Ministry of Economy to send an answer to this question, or to my notice, so that we can know what kind of notices to give to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11269	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, then Mr Petar Jojic, and then Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11270	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Articles 136 and 147. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 136. The government, i.e. the legislator, is obliged to write, with an explanation, what is the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, the reasons for its adoption. I will remain on this third indent, an explanation of the basic legal institutes of individual solutions and concepts. You can see we've reached Article 22. A proposal for an asylum law without having established at all what the Government of the Republic wanted to say when it comes to the concept of asylum. The word has an etemological origin of an old Turkish word that means escape, refuge, finding a place, such as a tavern, where people can eat and be strengthened, that is, to find refuge, and we talk all the time about the concept of asylum that has no place in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for which no authentic interpretation of what it is in the first article is given. The other thing, it's really scandalous, is that by Article 147. The Rules of Procedure, it is a second violation of the Government, it demeans the Assembly and violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it does not explain this concept by Article 136, which is actually an asylum, which otherwise does not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to Article 147, Mr. Sreti Peric, gave an explanation for the notion of a stranger, to which he reacted, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept in this sense an amendment that takes care of refugees. Will someone explain to us, let Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, return to the end of this debate, whether asylum and sanctuary are the same for him, whether those two concepts are synonymous for the other and whether the stranger is the same as the refugee? Is Mr. Milorad Buha a refugee or is he a Serb, such as me from Kragujevac, such as you from Vranja or you from Kruševac or Mrs. Radet from Guber, occupied by Ustasha Livna, or Mrs. Tabakovic from Vučitrn or are we talking here about what? This is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. This is really insolent. I haven't been able to look at all the written arguments of the government, but please, when I saw this, I came to a colleague of the Buha to ask him if he had paid attention. This is the highlight of the insolence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which can be from any country on the planet, which comes here because its religious, fundamental human rights are violated, etc., as stated in Article 57. The constitution or as the first member of this law and Article 6, you are equating it with a man, or a Serb, who had to, because he was running from the Ustasha knife, to get away from the Cypriot ballistics, terrorists, from his eternal hearth. Do not confuse these terms and insult the dignity of the Serb people and MPs. If you were unable to write the law properly, that in your head, first of all, the minister and the ministry themselves are growing what these basic concepts are, you still have a chance at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under Article 143, to withdraw the law during the search and that is now the only way to do it. We've been trying to convince you all along. Let go of these cosmetic changes. You accepted Mrs Lidija Vukicevic's amendment, my amendment and colleagues Dejan Mirović, Momira Markovic; these are grammatically, or linguistically-written members of the law, and then you say, "Come on, we've accepted something." The point hasn't been solved, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning. You're chasing two concepts: asylum and sanctuary and a stranger and a refugee. Thank you too, Mr. Mrkonjic, but this is such a confusing law and offensive to every man who sits here, and I can think that he is a fellow Buhi, who is an honorary Serb, who is not a foreigner and who is the Prime Minister of the Western Serbian state, unfortunately in persecution, because he had to go under the fate of the Ustasha and those who supported them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11271	I thank National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, then according to the Rules of Procedure, the National MP Vladan Batic, followed by the amendment by Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11272	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what is the essence of the proposed amendment? The substance of the proposed amendment is that the text needs to be improved in the interest of asylum seekers. Why? Please, if a person, or a stranger, enters the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the border crossing of Subotica, he must have the right to submit a written request to the competent police station. So, if it is Dimitrovgrad, the border crossing, as soon as he crosses the border, he has the right to address the nearest police station, and the police station, or police officer, should take a statement, but a statement to sign a person seeking asylum and that his statement be forwarded immediately to the competent authority to resolve refugee status and make a final decision. That is the essence of our amendment, because you cannot allow a citizen who enters Dimitrovgrad to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be harassed until he gets here, he needs time. But that's why it needs to be made possible, for economics and efficiency, that he can immediately address the nearest police station, and the police officer is authorized to take a statement and forward it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about asylum seekers, we can't help but remember who caused this number of asylum seekers in our territory, or exiles, but it's also about asylum seekers, because some have left a certain territory and sought asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, who's to blame? It's the fault of those powerful men, and that's, above all, the US and NATO pact. They are responsible for the crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, they are guilty of planning and achieving the collapse, isolation and impoverishment of the former SFRJ, as well as the former SRJ. They caused, encouraged and fuelled violence among the people, disrupted efforts to preserve unity, peace and stability in Yugoslavia. They destroyed both NATO and America, the UN's peacekeeping role. They used NATO for military aggression and occupation of disobedient poor countries. They killed and hurt the unprotected population of the entire Yugoslavia. Planned, announced and carried out attacks, with the intention of killing representatives of the state and the rest of our people. Mr. Vice President, let me take a few more out, I wouldn't take up your time later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11273	I'm sorry, I made a mistake earlier. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11274	Destroyed, or damaged, economic, social, cultural, medical, diplomatic, religious, objects and institutions in the territory of the entire SRJ then. They attacked objects containing dangerous substances, such as, above all, Petrochemy, refineries, other factories and other objects. What were those villains doing to NATO and America? They used, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and citizens of Serbia, the impoverished uranium, cluster bombs and other forbidden weapons under international regulations. Expanded the war even to the environment. They imposed sanctions through the UN, which is a crime of genocide against humanity. Establish an illegal ad hoc tribunal to destroy and demonise Serbian leadership, both military, state and political. They controlled and used international public information funds to create and provide support for the US attack and to demonise Yugoslavia and the Slovenian peoples. These enemies have established a long-term military occupation of the strategic parts of Yugoslavia with the help of NATO forces, namely the 19 most powerful countries in the world towards a small, former SRJ, or Serbia. They tried to destroy sovereignty, the right to self-determination, democracy and the culture of Slovenian peoples, as well as other peoples of Yugoslavia. For the purpose of the U.S. action, they have determined to dominate, control and exploit Yugoslavia, its peoples, as well as natural wealth. They didn't accidentally shave in Kosovo and Metohija, ladies and gentlemen, in the Serbian country and the Serbian state, they accidentally barricaded there and made Bondsteel their base in the Balkans, but to draw energy resources and mineral wealth on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that is, its southern province. What did the U.S. do? As an asset, they used military force and economic sanctions. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been a reminder, because this is closely related to the asylum law, because a large number of citizens of Serbian nationality have been expelled and persecuted from the centuries-old hearths, from their territories and territories where they lived until yesterday. About a million Serbs found themselves in exile, found themselves in persecution. What happened? There's been something that's never been seen in the world. What did little Serbia do? This Little Serbia has always defended itself throughout history. This small Serbia, first of all, threw its three empires under its knights and fighters, and the Hamburg Austrian and Turkish empire, these small Serbia and its heroes and its population were able only to defend themselves and never occupied anyone's territory, and we are just defending ourselves and we must continue fighting, let the fight be constant to free Serbia from the occupation and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11275	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. According to Business, the MP is Dr Vladan Batic. Please, Mr. Markovic, you have such an organ of voice, I think even when you whisper, you can hear it all over the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11276	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again advertise the provision of Article 27 and the obligation of the President of the Assembly to respect the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and yes, by respecting what most of those sitting here were proud of as if it were the Holy Scriptures, as if it were the Bible, as if it were the Gospel, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, preamble with great thoughts about Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo and Metohija are now being dealt with by parliaments of many European countries, but not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is evidence of irresponsibility and it is a message that in fact all the top authorities are doing in Kosovo and Metohija is demagogy, hypocrisy, deception, sweet fraud, fog, colourful lie. Did you see last night at the Public Service, and they were found when they heard of a proposal to arrange for Kosovo to be modeled on the Icelandic islands. Well, then, in their archival documentation, they don't have a picture of the island, so they found a couple of rocks, a couple of seagulls, a couple of tree houses, and here you have the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Imagine that hypocrisy, that misery and that insolence. That's not why I answered. She just called me on the phone, and this is a sad story, Mrs. Dragana Patric, the mother of tragically injured Mark Patrick. He died in some kind of conflict at the crossing of the Brnjak. All the media said it was a two-criminal gang shootout. And I even said, with that information, that some criminals, our countrymen, Serbs, had clashed. Mrs. Patric told me that Marko was a model child, that he was a paratrooper, that he had been through the whole war and fought for Kosovo, that he was fighting for Serbia. She mentioned that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic also knows him, that even at one point, when there was an incident, I am saying what Mrs. Dragana Patric said to me, in Kosovo, attended by Mr. Vukic, that Mr. Marko Patric intervened, he helped Alexander Vukic. That's not the point either. What's the topic? That boy had to do something. He was in the security of those who smuggled on illegal roads, at illegal border crossings, where customs were bypassed, and taxes, and market, and sanitary and every inspection and obligation, I was already talking about it. That's not to be talked about here. Why? Because you cross over, and because that smuggling, and these smuggling channels under the auspices of Serbian agos and fugitives and breaths from Kosovo and Metohija. Some unfortunately sit here too. Some unfortunately sit in this House as well. That's true. That's why when I say it at the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, then it comes back to me the way it comes back, because it's trying to bury the truth. That's why young Marko Patrick died because he had to work. He worked in the security of some of these characters, who again collect bloody tribute and prey under the patronage of some of the people of our government. So again, I insist on a session of the KIM Committee, which will be held by the minister of police, and the defence minister and this foreign minister for Kosovo and Metohija, to catch him in the meantime until he invents some new islands, perhaps Foklandska, there are neither people nor turtles from the Galapagos. It's irresponsible, it's rude, it's hypocrisy, it's corruption, it's crime. I'm sorry the minister isn't here to hear this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11277	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11278	The topic, or two topics that Mr Vladan Batic spoke about earlier, are really very serious and certainly deserve the attention of this parliament, deserve the attention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, I expected you to say specific names instead of "some people," Mr. Batic. I answered because Mr Batic, at one point, interrupted his debate because I probably spoke a little louder on my cell phone. That is why I apologize to Mr Batic and all the MPs. But that relationship was very important to me, and I had to answer and talk. I was contacted by one of the potential witnesses of Vojislav Seselj, to inform me that Kristina Dahl, who is currently in Belgrade, is pressuring him to meet with him to persuade him to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj. For this reason, which I don't normally do, I talked to this man on the phone, to tell him, of course, that, as a potential witness to Vojislav Seselj, I don't have to talk to Kristin Dahl, that she is violating international law, that she is violating the UN tribunal's rules, because she is going with her bulument, which Vukcevic, the special prosecutor for war crimes and his associates, are going to the hunt for witnesses against Vojislav Seselj. Unfortunately for them, they're failing. All of them, or at least the vast majority of those they counted on, in the meantime, cancelled their call for testimony. Meanwhile, they contacted members of the defence team Vojislav Seselj and all of them are potential witnesses of defence, or potential witnesses of Vojislav Seselj. Here, I'm also taking this opportunity to inform everyone that they can call me freely, even when I'm at the assembly meeting, with the respect of this job I'm doing here, we'll always have time for them and, of course, we'll provide them with the presence of lawyers in that violent conversation with Christine Dahl, who came here to burn and burn, with the help of these Serbian special forces. That's why I apologize to you again, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11279	I thank the People's Councilman, Verica Redetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Dr Vladan Batic again has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11280	I accept your apology, Mrs. Radeta, and I wouldn't mind if this topic hadn't been about what I was talking about, it's a little painful and it's a little bit human to me. It's all right. Here, I've already mentioned some things, as I've had to mention from this pay phone five times for Slobodan Vučetić, until in the end he himself answered and said, yes, I'm getting paid, I'm not president of the Constitutional Court for 14 months, but I'm getting paid by the President of the Constitutional Court, 230,000 dinars. Where's the morale? And then it's Janko's fault, it's Marco's fault, and it's not his fault, my mother. And we're all crazy. But let's go back to what I am from this pay phone, where the final effect of the bomb on Stojanka Petkovic's house is and the death of young Mark Patrick, those who abuse the local government, the local budget, and the flood of crocodile tears, are calling over the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. I asked a question, I know the answer, but I want it officially. Here's a question: did the Kosovo Mitrovica hospital receive from Kosovo's budget, meaning the hateful Albanians, or, as they call them, Shipara, in the last four years 1,200,000 euros, because it is officially Umnik's data, both Umnik and current health minister or formerly, named Sadik Idrizi, who, I think, is Goranac. I ask: for what purposes were these funds taken, as they were received, in dinars, in material, at the expense of foreign exchanges. Is there a foreign exchange account in Kosovo Mitrovica, is it registered, as it is registered, where it is registered, whether approval from local authorities has been requested and whether money has been obtained from Serbia's budget for the same purpose? That's one thing, and you know who's the boss there. The other thing, around these roads, around these illegal roads, is the Zubin stream, the Luka River, Rajetice, Novi Pazar, and then that road has its second leg - Banska, Ruljina, Rajetice, Novi Pazar. I asked -- was there any tender, according to whose approval, how is it built, who's building? Here's your answer. You asked for a name. I ask - are these illegal roads or those roads being built in a strange way by Mr. Miljkovic's company, who is president of the Kosovo Chamber of Commerce? I also ask Mr Milentijevic - whether Mr Miljkovic, president of the Kosovo Chamber of Commerce, who has a construction firm, wrote Prime Minister Kostunica a letter against Mr Milentijevic himself. He wrote and signed it, because Mr. Milentijevic also had a construction firm in his day, tells me he doesn't now, I believe, that he's not in business right now, maybe he passed it on to someone else, it doesn't matter. It is important how money is spent from Serbia's budget, who allows it, on behalf of which Serbs. It's hypocrisy, it's misery. Let's solve our problems, then let's see what others do to us, not look at images of swans and rocks, how we'll have a happy future for kiM.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11281	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. Let's finish the amendment. The word is Milorad Buh, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11282	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time we got the right interpretation of asylum, asylum seekers and refugees. That's the basics. Without that, we can't move on. There's no minister here today. There should have been a Commissioner for Refugees here, given the circumstance that in the Refugees Committee, under the provisions of the Refugees Act, the issue of refugee status was resolved, with all the rights arising from the law. As yesterday, I will return to the provision of Article 2 of this Bill and Article 1. The refugee law. I think the proposer of this law has failed in terms of determining the legal status of the refugee and the right to asylum, or asylum. There's a basic mistake. Before I move on to the legal regulations that apply to all of this, I'm going to show you the enormous financial consequences of all these failures that can follow. Refugees are very interested, especially after this -- whether they are in refugee status or returning to asylum status. Refugees started in 1991. These are data from the Refugee Commissioner: 1991 - 150 thousand, 1996 - 650 thousand, 2000 - 550 thousand, 2001 - 450 thousand, 2005 - 107 thousand, 2007 - about 97,000. If we count the number of refugees, given that this country is the single means of survival, for the naked existence of that people, we come up with a certain amount that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come up with in some way, that is the amount of 12 billion euros. That amount of 12 billion euros, you'll agree, is not small. The amount of 12 billion euros should be transferred to the Croats, as they are the cause, should be brought to BiH, because they are the causes of war, persecution and refugee status of this population. As for the internally displaced KIM, they are expelled from their hearths and they are here, but this country costs about five billion euros for these 6-7 years; 250 thousand people are at least here and there is no return, there will be no return. We will integrate this internally displaced, or exiled population into the state of Serbia at no cost. The state of Serbia is costing. This people are costing. We're talking about asylum seekers today, we spend a lot of time, but financially it's 12 billion for refugees and five billion for internally displaced or exiled by KIM, it's 17 billion euros. See what the numbers are. What's next? What do we do now? According to the provisions of this law, it says in Article 3, we must return because we do not know what the future status of refugees who have won that right and those who will flee, you have it here in Article 2, you have said what the refugees mean, but we see what asylum means, what the stranger means, whether asylum implies, incorporates and a future refugee. This is what Article 3 says - this law does not apply to refugees who have acquired this property under the Refugees Act. All right. But see now, Article 65 of this Law is interpreted in accordance with the Convention on the Status of Refugees of 1951, the 1967 Protocol on Refugee Status, etc. What does that mean? A simple answer you need? This must be given by the minister, it must be given by someone from the professional service who has prepared this law - in which sense you have defined the asylumist and what is the refugee. Since you have expelled certain categories of refugees from this law, and you are interpreting in accordance with the Convention on Refugee Status, nothing is clear. In the government we discussed this, with a list of a few days of this, I can't come up with a solution. Please have someone, anyone, come out and tell us if the refugee is being incorporated into the asylum. If it is, it completely changes the situation. We're gonna have a lot of problems. We don't change the provisions of the Refugee Act to any member of the law. If we were to treat them this way, then we had to amend this law or asylum seekers with this law, not to mention refugees, and to build up for refugees the provisions of this law and thus resolve everything that awaits us in future time around refugee status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11283	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Buhi. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Dusan Bajatovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11284	Our colleague is currently not in the O.R. because of another obligation, I won't comment on the amendment itself, he wasn't going to change a member, he could, as such, be accepted. What I want to say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group is that the asylum law is something the state of Serbia should have. I have to say, I haven't followed all the debates in the O.R., I've followed a lot of things over the TV screen, that there are reasons for many of these remarks, especially by the MPs of the SRS. On the other hand, this is one of the laws that synchronises our legislation with the need to join the EU. I do not believe that someone for economic reasons will be an asylum in Serbia and will come here from Germany because someone is politically banishing him. Maybe it's some drunk Romanian who's looking for asylum here. We're not gonna solve that kind of problem with this law. I highly doubt that someone will demand that Serbia protects him politically, as we traditionally understand it, rather than that there are other things that opposition MPs point to. We cannot talk here about serious amounts of political or economic asylum. What I think the biggest problem with this law is that transition obligation. If anyone's come to another country, then how do they get it back? They're sending him back to Serbia because he went through Serbia. I don't know what the fear of this law is about those questions that are raised from reading business. I think it will also depend on how this government wants to apply this law. The law itself may, well, come on, when you're an opposition, then you're criticizing it all the way, the law itself to the end, and it's not controversial. We should have this law. Its application, therefore, should it not be in line with our interests when dealing with such problems, perhaps Serbia could lead to some mildly unpleasant situations. As far as the SPS is concerned, we will decide until the vote whether or not we will support this law, given that several amendments have been accepted. When we look to the end, and as far as I can see, the fundamental amendments haven't changed much, we'll define ourselves. In principle, everything Serbia has in a legislative sense, and is synchronising with EU legislation, and it is not at the expense of the Serbian state, sometimes with these laws, let's do what is being passed, but are not being adopted, or are very often given and inapplicable, the SPS parliamentary group feels that we should support it. One thing you're up against is the government, and another thing is when you vote for something useful at a given time for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11285	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11286	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Before I say anything about the amendment, I apologize, it's not abuse, I got an e-mail, a Srdjan from Nis says that you are the best chairman of parliament and I am obliged to tell you that, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11287	It's not a topic, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11288	It's always a theme when someone's good at running a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11289	The theme is asylum law, please, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11290	As soon as the others got upset, Mr. Grouchy, it means I kicked good. There's no mistake, I'm doing my job well. Now Mrs. Verica is going to compliment someone else on the amendment, and that's fine. Let's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11291	I'm asking the MPs of the SRS not to take pictures. I apologize, although Mr. Todorovic is doing it brilliantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11292	Graduation brilliantly, only when it comes to socialists. It is a good time to say a few things about this law and about the law on readmission as Mr Dusan Bajatovic said. To remind Serbian citizens that a recent incident has occurred in Slovenia. One family that was in the process of reading, and before that in one European state was in the process of receiving asylum, so this was important, it was a Roma family that wanted to settle in its home municipality in Slovenia, even to insist on the President of the Government of Slovenia, even with great pressure from European media and European public, the residents of a region in Slovenia did not physically allow a Roma family to settle where it had always lived. Why am I saying this? Slovenia is an EU member and certainly there is a law on readmission and asylum law, that's what I'm saying here now. The Slovenian public was unable to "sustain" the presence of a Roma family in its environment. What are we actually talking about here? So when you are a member of the EU, you prescribe rules for others without being able to comply with your own rules in your own country. I have to say, we live in a country where this isn't a problem. That's why I'm happy. We don't have any relationship, no formal, no unofficial to anyone in this way. Azil is wanted out of extreme urgency, when a person's life is at stake, his dignity, his political beliefs, when it can be the subject of a different gibberish, torture in the country of origin, and I believe that we will accept this law. We expect our country to pay attention, with the attention of a serious host, to all those who are potential asylum seekers in our country. I don't think the state has any mechanisms, and there's no people, and there's no authority, and she's got all that to recognize the nasty intentions and the ones that come here to do some other things. I have to say, it's a little late for that. A lot of people have already entered our country in this or that form who are completely unhindered by those things that cause us to doubt whether it will be done by asylum seekers. It's a little late. To say that our country is pretty vulnerable in intelligence, that it doesn't need someone to be an asylumist, so that they trick our country into coming here and enjoying her hospitality to do intelligence work. Unfortunately, there are enough people living in Serbia who are engaged in this illicit and subversive activity without asylum seekers coming here with diplomatic passports, spreading their red carpet, playing military music, handing over the report, and the militia orchestra sometimes. They come here and do the worst possible things to our country and our people. I would not be honest if I didn't say it to the end, I want to believe that all the authorities of the Serbian state have, as modernly said today, and capacity, and that technically and in any other sense, they are qualified to recognize these phenomena. Do they have the strength to call them by their real name and whether because of the context of political events they can react as I wish and as we wish, that's another question, not to be taught by a wolf, and whether foxes eat meat. For asylum and asylum seekers, there should be extreme caution, although these others, I remind you, did the worst things to our country, bombed our country, killed children in Serbia. Only in the city where I live, which is Cachak, there are 10,000 people left without a job in NATO aggression, and this country has given up war damage, has given up a whole series of other issues. The other day, we were saying that 440m euros is a damage to the RTS of NATO aggression. Just at RTS, not to mention dead people, that's irreparable. So I call on anyone who is able to stand up to those who are doing to us what they've been doing to us for a long time, and they do it with full responsibility, because once they decompose you to the state and once they get into your system, they stay here, they lay down rules of conduct, they put together electoral lists, they run for a variety of high-ranking officials. We talked about a senior diplomat of our country, Dejan Sahovic, having no passport and citizenship of our country. Dear gentlemen, there are people who have dual citizenship. Dejan Shahovic only has Canadian. I ask Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic and the authorities - that no one has told him by chance whether this man can do so without being a citizen of this country in any way? He doesn't vote in our country, he's not a citizen of our country. I remind you, he's a high-ranking official, senior diplomat at the UN on behalf of our country. It can't be allowed by any serious country in the world. I apologize, this is not entirely in the context of today's agenda, but it is important to know, because there was one parliamentary question we never got an answer to. Yeah, Dejan Shahovic doesn't have double, he only has Canadian citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11293	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, I think it would be necessary to accept this amendment and delete "to express the intention". It's completely undefined. Only an estimate of one of the officers can be a parameter of whether he will assume that he has any intention or no intention. This should be very precise. We shouldn't have any dilemmas here. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because, to the greatest extent since 2001, we have received laws that come from the EU and, depending on good translation service or some other reason, we get inaccurate laws. When it comes to these things, we must be extremely precise, because we have no reason to believe the EU. For the past 20 years, we have been able to see for ourselves, especially now that they are trying to take away Kosovo and Metohija, that they have done everything and are doing everything to cause lasting damage to Serbia and the Serbian people, which can be measured by the disappearance of both Serbia and the Serbian people. It is the simplest thing to see by the double arches they apply when it comes to Serbia, the Serbian people and when it comes to someone else. I will tell you on the case of Slovenia, which is one of the first republics to join the EU. This is the country that committed the first war crime, or its leaders responsible for the start of the war at former SFRY, responsible for the war crimes committed against unarmed JNA members by directly committing the shooting. Unfortunately, our country has done nothing to summon justice and Kuchan and all those involved. There is another crime, an unprecedented proportion, committed by Slovenia. You are, more or less, almost everyone knows about it. It is the citizens of the former SFRY, most of which were from Serbia, from BiH, who were completely deprived of all human rights. Their papers were taken, they couldn't have anything. In some cases, it was drastic. You had a chance a month ago to read about a case that happened to a man whose family lived in Celje. He worked in Austria, he had a residence, driver's license, I.D., all the documents he had. Those were Slovenian documents. He came to visit his parents and the police came, brought him in, took his papers, didn't inform his family, wouldn't let a lawyer get involved. They just said, about, to clarify the situation. Then the Serb from BiH handed over to Croatia. Croatia handed it over to the then authorities of Herceg Bosnia, only after 15 years found that the Serb concerned was killed and our state is silent. There's a lot of cases like that. That's the problem we're facing. You see, Slovenia has been admitted into the EU with such crimes as it has committed, and they honor us in every way possible and try to prove that we are you, both as a people and as a state, who are responsible for everything that happened at the beginning of the collapse. So that there's no confusion, I'm going to read you exactly who it was and how it was going. "Although he had a regular registered residence in Celje, Slovenian police have deported Dragoljub Petronic, as a BiH citizen, to Croatia on September 3rd 1992. Croatian police sent him to Split and then to Metkovic. From there he was transported to the Kamensko border crossing, where he was handed over to the Croatian Greater Defence, then the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia. After 15 years of hope that Dragoljub is still alive, Petronics received news a few days ago that he was dead." Because of all this, a large number of Serbs in Slovenia have filed a lawsuit with the Strasbourg court and will try to get justice there. What's our country doing? What's simply unimaginable. The best parts and salaries for business space are given to Slovenian companies. You know the Mercator case. All other companies, which were on the privatization, the Slovenians had the advantage. Slovenians use it as they used in the former state, the common state. They could bribe all over Yugoslavia and get the best for them. Look at them, they've moved in completely and occupied Serbia. What can we do in Slovenia as a state? Nothing. Is there one single company that can enter Slovenia's market - not a single one. Interesting thing, in 50 years of living together, Slovenians didn't even know Serbian. In 10 years of separate life, everyone speaks Serbian. No more insistence on your rights. Look, everyone who comes here speaks Serbian. What's worst for us is that they hire Serbs here for easier passage, access, who come here and carry out all their orders. It's nothing new. The Turks invented the Janitors. The problem with us is that we allow it, that the state does nothing to prevent it. That's why I don't think our country should be in a situation where someone because of the possibility of arbitration and saying yes or did not express his intention to come into such a position to deny him asylum and to, God forbid, experience such a fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11295	I suggest we finish the morning session. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, then at 15.00 hours we continue to work on Article 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11296	Mr. Carrot, you're really nothing to blame in this situation. I was present on several occasions when you urged Dragan Jocic to return to the O.R. I'm reporting from Article 93. Rules of Procedure, let me remind you of yesterday. Yesterday, we broke up the amendment debate at 16:30, because we received a notice that Dragan Jocic could not come. He came in today, the rest of his files, his bag, he told us, or he suggested there was still some urgent business this morning around 10:30. The coalition's got his bag. That's interesting. DS Jocic's got the bag, that's some kind of sign, but we need him back in the O.R. If, at this time, I am speaking to Mrs. Kolundzija, the ladies of the MUP, I do not see Mr. Aligrudic in the O.R., unless Minister Jocic is back by 3:00, it is pointless for his colleague Mrkonjic, whoever is next to chair, to discuss this further. I'm in a situation again, and we're going to move on to Article 23 and the amendment of my colleague, Alexander Martinovic, so we don't know the essence of this law. We don't know what asylum is, what is a sanctuary, we don't know the basic concepts of this law. The minister did not accept amendments that essentially regulate and amend this law, we do not want to be involved in a debate on one law, which seems to you to be something in a series that needs to be done, in order to be accepted by these officers of yours. That's not the point to us. If we're talking about a law that needs to solve these people's issues, we know what foreigners are, and what they're exiled, escaped faces, let the minister appear, and we will continue to work. This is how you will face the situation that we will report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because we have not come here, we are elected representatives of the people, elected by the citizens, to chase with the hair of Jocic, who runs around, leaves the bag in the hall. We have no reason to act like this, we're responsible, serious people, we're looking to work on the Rules of Procedure. Bring Minister Jocic in, find the mechanism to bring in the minister of police, and at 3 p.m. we can keep working with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11297	I agree with my colleague, Natasha Jovanovic. Continued session at 3 p.m., and I ask Mr. Todorovic to ensure the minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11299	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it's good to have you back in the assembly room. We really didn't insist on you coming just because it's your obligation to the Rules of Procedure, but because this bill is like that, and that you've been listening to everything the MPs in the afternoon have said, so you'll probably already do what I'm going to suggest, which is to withdraw this bill. Believe it's so bad that the more we go through these members in the discussion of details, the more we get the impression as if this law was done with a leg. Who did this and who planted this on you I don't know, but really very, very bad bill. Here, Article 23, the title is recording. So he's referring to haystacking asylum seekers. This member has five views. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, has proposed to amend the three positions of this Article 23. In the first position, you suggested that an authorised police officer of the interior ministry, before whom the stranger expressed his intention to seek asylum, would make his registration. I really don't know what this means. Where he's gonna record it, write it on a piece of ice and put it next to the stove. It's just amazing, it's casual, it doesn't mean anything at all. The proposal by counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic is to change this position and to say: that the authorised police officer of the MUP is obliged to receive a written request from a foreigner seeking asylum, to carry out its registration, and to submit the asylum application immediately by official means to the competent asylum authority for a decision. Don't you think this is a full legal norm and it just means something like this? Just recording doesn't mean anything because you didn't write in law what you're going to do with that record. Are you going to keep it in the drawer, will you pass it on to someone, won't you? So, incompletely, inaccurately, and we Serbian radicals, it is well known to you, we always advocate a legal norm that is concise, concrete, clear and always advocate, when we are discussing governmental bill proposals, to fight and to point out to you with amendments for one basic reason, which is that the law would be applicable on the one hand, and on the other hand to leave as little legal void as possible in the course of law enforcement, and then that means as little abuse as possible. Now, I'm asking you, Minister, if, according to your proposal, an authorized police officer of your ministry, before whom the stranger has expressed his intention to seek asylum, and he carries out his registration, what are you going to do to that officer and what can you do to that police officer in the first place if he makes that registration and doesn't take any further action, not one step at all? Why not accept what is proposed to be sent to the competent asylum authority for decision immediately by official means after the registration of the asylum application? I really don't see any reason why you wouldn't accept such a well-intentioned and comprehensive amendment. In the same Article, in paragraph 3, you have proposed that the certificate referred to in Article 2 and paragraph 2 indicate that the recording includes the issuing of a prescribed certificate, which contains the personal data provided by the stranger about itself or can be determined on the basis of the documents and documents available to him. So you're saying that the confirmation from this attitude I've just quoted serves as proof that the stranger has expressed his intention to seek asylum and that he has the right to remain for 72 hours. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, suggests that in this attitude 3, words -- he expressed his intention to seek, replace -- that he submitted a written request asking for it. Because what does it mean that someone has expressed their intention to seek asylum – how did he express, nod, wink? I really don't understand how he expressed his intention unless he filed a written request seeking asylum. Finally, in the position of the 5th of this same member, you have predicted that the way in which foreigners express their intention to seek asylum is governed by the regulation of the minister. We have suggested, which is otherwise the principled position of the SRS, not to be the regulation of the minister, but to be the regulation of the ministry, because we think that no body can be identified with one man. The minister will, of course, sign in the framework of his powers as part of the work he is doing. Mr. Minister, you're signing everything at the Ministry. (Dear Jocic, from the post: I am the responsible elder. ) Of course you are a responsible elder, but you are the responsible elder of the Ministry, the authority, the works of the Serbian Government and you must act as a responsible elder or an elder, and how much responsibility you are, we will see how you will act on our amendments, as an elder, and not as Minister Dragan Jocic. You know, in the law amending the Law on Citizenship, you have committed yourself to prescribing, within a certain deadline, a sublegal act relating to the issue of citizenship and to forms for Serbs from Montenegro. There is still no official of yours, I don't know if you know it, and I suppose you know that since I've been sending you messages through some of your employees, none of your officers, no ministry chief knows what that form looks like, in any way that a Serb from Montenegro is applying for citizenship. It really has to be raised to the level of the Ministry. In an explanation, counterpart Martinovic wrote that a police officer could not, at the time of recording that foreign person, establish his real intention as an asylum seeker, which is absolutely undeniable. If someone came into the country illegally, they showed up in front of a police officer in charge, who knows what his intention is. In the situation where Serbia is now and you know for yourself what's going on, who's coming into us, what kind of agents are doing in Serbia, who can introduce everything in one way or another. Don't put yourself in a position to, because you don't want to accept any of our amendments, put you and your ministry and your employees employed in your ministry. I know that you have always, except today, attended the debates in particular on the draft laws that you represent on behalf of the Government and that we have managed to convince you to accept some amendments that are absolutely indisputable, such as this amendment to Article 23, which does not disturb you to the slightest extent the concept of the law. On the contrary, what you have predicted, this amendment is only maximum precision. But I was fascinated by the government's explanation why it didn't accept this amendment. Now I have to go through this whole argument because I have to follow the government's instructions given in this sentence, he says, an explanation as well as an amendment under regular number 13. Okay, I find an amendment under regular number 13 - reason, the government does not accept this amendment because by adopting it, the person seeking asylum would unwarrantedly put himself in a more favourable legal position than our citizens in terms of how to deliver the letters in administrative and other procedures. Mr. Minister, this really has nothing to do with common sense. What does personal delivery have to do with Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens under the Law on General Administrative Procedure, people who have resolved their status in this country, what does this have to do with the status of asylum seekers, and how to deliver letters to asylum seekers? Which addresses do you deliver to? Are they coming to their homes here? Are they coming to relatives and friends? Have you even made up the idea of an asylum man? That's what we also tried to show you in your absence in the morning, I assume your associates have told you in what way the debate took place. In the following reasons, it says, in relation to the proposed amendment to Article 23 paragraph 5, and I do not know what this was about, whether, previously, paragraph 1 or paragraph 3, or if you remained in our position on paragraph 3, you remained in our debt of justification, but in relation to the proposed amendment to Article 23.5. The proposal for a law is the same as point 2 of the reasons for the amendment under regular number 10. I'm looking for an amendment under regular number 10. Let's see what this is all about. Here is the explanation: "The government does not accept the amendment because Article 10(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union accepts the amendment. The bill introduces the possibility for asylum seekers to use free legal assistance and representation, in addition to UNHCR and by NGOs, who, by enrolment in the Register of Associations, acquired the right to provide legal assistance to refugees in accordance with their objectives. The solution provided for in this provision of the bill is not binding, but represents just one more advantage, whose use depends on the will of an asylum-seeking person and aims to improve and improve his position. '"What does this have to do with Article 23, Mr. Jocic? What do NGOs have to do with the registration of asylum seekers? In this very explanation, you started with asylum seekers, finished with refugees. We asked that in the morning, and now you're going to answer nicely, I'm sure: do you identify asylum seekers and refugees? What's the attitude? Don't turn your head, gentlemen, but tell the Minister what to say, so he can explain to us why, if you're spinning your head, then it shouldn't, and it shouldn't be like that, why did you write such an explanation? You don't tell the difference between asylum and refugees throughout the law. Obviously, under refugees, you mean both expelled and exiled faces, because you didn't particularly predict them, it's all the same to you. You're the one who messed up the grandmothers and frogs. You suggested here one text of the law because you had to add another line there to that list that someone gave you. You've got some law, as it has been very often given to a bad translator and what we've got, Mr. Jocic, is more and more than the proposal for an asylum law. We ask you to listen again to what we are telling you, to withdraw this proposal, to do a good law, before you can regulate the status of refugees, exiled, exiled Serbs from their hearths from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija. And before you make changes to the law, it's a lot more difficult for them, and it's much more important for them to free them from those collective centers, to build them some houses and apartments to live in with a decent man's life. I don't know, Mr. Minister, how long in your line of work you've come to visit these collective centres, as far as you know that these people still, after 15, 17 or how many years, live in Serbia's territory. It's a disgrace and a shame for Serbia. All those people who came to Serbia experienced Serbia as their mother before they were forced to come to Serbia. I came to Serbia before the war, and no one made me come, but even then I knew, or was convinced, that I was coming to Serbia's mother because I was experiencing it, and that's how all Serbs who were born and living outside Serbia experience it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11300	Thank you. The word is Minister Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11301	Just a little bit to explain the amendment to Alexander Martinovic. He's not in the spirit of the whole law and not just of this, but of another amendment, as if he's expressing mistrust that the cops aren't going to do anything or hide. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Why not, and it is possible.) Well, if you have such an opinion about our police, that she will, then that's another thing, but let me explain. ''The authorised political official of the MUP is obliged to receive a written request from an asylum-seeking stranger, will make its registration, and shall forward the asylum application immediately by official means to the competent asylum authority for a decision. ''When this amendment is interpreted, it cannot be concluded that you are predicting two organs here, one is a police officer, and the other is an organ that is outside of the MUP, so you prescribe that the police, an authorized official, will give what they record to another authority. However, this is about one side of Article 23, which is that it is a relationship within the organisation units of the MUP. When a person records something, it is certain that it is fixed and that it must go through the work itself, for example. in this case, at the Directorate for Border Affairs, where the Commission, or the Office, makes a decision on asylum. It is the same as saying that the event that happens, and Mr. Jojic knows, is recorded in the journal or book of events, so nothing is done. So someone's causing a car accident, causing a serious bodily injury, and you say it's recorded. No one's gonna take it any further. However, the functioning of the MUP has its logic. The same thing, when an authorised official records something and the way the procedure is recorded within the administration's authority is regulated, and no one else will regulate it but the minister, then it's the way to get asylum. The bottom line is, when your amendment is going well, and I would accept it because I accept all the amendments from all those who are too high, which function in the spirit of the law, I would accept it that there is no double logic here, so that you can draw the conclusion that the official person who recorded it is one thing, and some other body that is outside the ministry that needs to be done -- another thing. I'm sure it doesn't have to go so accurately and express suspicion that someone in the MUP won't record anything and forward it to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11302	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11303	Mr. Jocic, I don't know why you started yelling. You are, by the way, those men. Something must have upset you. I don't speak for 19 minutes and 30 seconds. I'd like to ask you to return the time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Mr. Jocic, let me repeat, I don't know why you started yelling, why you, I don't know if you noticed, insulted an SRS MP group. You said you'd accept any amendment if you thought it was too much of an amendment, whoever it was. This is about the SRS amendment. Our amendments are too much, but since it's obviously not an ugly expression, I have to say that your explanation was inconsistencies, because what you said has nothing to do with the amendment, or with our explanation, at least with our trust in the police. It's obvious you wanted to use it to ask if we trusted the police. We Serbian radicals trust the police, we know that most officers are honest and honest people, but we don't trust the Ministry. I ask you, Minister, can you claim that you trust every cop? Do you, as a minister, stand behind those individual cases we read in the papers, a drug dealer cop, a killer cop, a suicide cop, a cop do this, do that? (Dear Jocic, from the scene: It's some bad police.) The police aren't bad. Why aren't you listening to me? I'm telling you, these are individual cases and I'm asking you -- are you, as a minister, behind such individual cases, or are you aware that both the police and every other body, and in any other place, live people, and that in a legalised state every body, every organization has to be regulated by law, that the law stands exactly how a particular person should behave? You, as a lawyer, should know that, I'm even convinced you know, but I don't know why you don't admit it. The more concise legal norm means easier, simpler application and less opportunity for abuse. So we want those who aren't safe enough to direct them to the law that they have to behave like that. Once again, Mr. Jocic, to repeat, the SRS is a belief that most police employees are honest and honest, but they need a better minister and a better ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11304	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, you are not in the process of this whole store and the spirit of the law, as you say, that changes the SRS. Because if the amendments we have explained in your absence and during yesterday were accepted, you would see that this amendment is a logical trace of the intensity of the SRS. You tried that, though in a bit of a nervous tone, to make a mockery and accuse the SRS that one part of the body and the department of the MUP has no trust. That's not the point. Look what fellow Martinovic wanted. Two hours ago, we discussed it, and we expect you to explain it and your colleague Buha insists on it as Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in persecution, to tell us whether they are also a foreigner and a refugee. We ask you this because of the fact that three amendments are given an explanation, it is the amendment of counterpart Sreta Perić, where he reacts where a stranger is mentioned, and the government gives us an explanation where he mentions the word - refugees. We're just confused. On the other hand, you know very well that the status of refugees from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska -- there was a deadline, right, my colleague Buha? – until they had to apply, now with their discretionary right at the special request of the Commissioner for Refugees he approves. So there'd have to be a recommendation. There was almost one such case, and Mrs. Željka Radeta, who recorded refugees in the Zemun municipality, gave one such recommendation for an old lady who had no health insurance, could not be treated, for the simple reason she missed, conditionally speaking, that deadline to be recorded, but it was subsequently found that she was indeed the lady, that she had to avoid the surroundings of Knin, to leave her hearth, that she was quite old and that it should be right to belong to her. Look what this is all about. Only the principle of efficiency of the SRS has been applied. When we tell you -- discipline, efficiency, the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, that's not all hollow and empty words. When we tell you that every ministry will be more successful when we take power, it's facts. This is all about it, it was explained by Mr. Jojic, our authorised representative, as an old police officer – I think, Mr. Jojic, that you now have the rank of police general that you are an active police officer – as a man who knows that there was this time of efficiency and urgency of the police, and he came from that fact and fellow Martinovic. If you had accepted, which was realistic, the amendment of the SRS, we would have been in a situation where every MUP unit in Dimitrovgrad, Presevo, Subotica, recorded a request for asylum. Then it is said here that immediately, it is the amendment of fellow Martinovic, forward it to the competent authority. The competent authority, Mr. Jocic, you said yourself, has not yet been formed, it will be an asylum office. Very easily, it will be formed when the law is passed. To Thessalonica, 100 lemons. Wait, now we're talking not hypothetically, but what if it were. Our intention was, in case you adopted that amendment, that this one from the MUP of Dimitrovgrad, Presevo, Subotica immediately forward the request to the asylum office, and then she decides. And this second position of counterpart Martinovic is not at all controversial about technical matters, but expressed his intention to seek, replace it with words -- he submitted a request he requested. I'll finish by trying to replace the thesis again. Mr. Jocic, I believed in this second mandate of yours at the head of the MUP, that you would have at least so much hearing when you took power from those against whom you began to allegedly fight six months after October 5th. Now you are here nice and together, that you will respect the obligations that Dusan Mihajlović did not respect and that, above all, you will pay the prize to Professor Vojislav Seselj, publicly promised, for the discovery of three murders in the amount of 900 thousand German marks then, and that you will return the jeep to us, which is the property of the SRS. So now you're accusing us of not believing the MUP, and before we could translate it into the field that we don't trust any of you, because those public promises and what you were supposed to do, when you took over the MUP, you didn't do it, and most of all we believe the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11306	The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to clarify some things, so it doesn't remain unclear. As for Article 23 of the proposal, it follows, that an authorised police officer of the MUP, before whom the stranger expressed his intention, and his intention cannot be expressed by conjugal actions; he cannot be a police officer who is on duty on Saturday to trust him and that the competent authority to conduct the procedure is not in office because it is not working time. That intention must only be proven by written means, i.e. to submit written requests. That's basic. Second, the registration shall include the issuing of a prescribed certificate in paragraph 2, which shall contain the personal data that the stranger has provided about himself or may be established on the basis of the documents and documents he has with him. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when we spoke this morning in relation to how it should be proved that the stranger has a intention, whether it was sufficient for his explanation or whether certain evidence must be offered to the competent state authority, i.e. Police. On the other hand, it must be issued a certificate as proposed in this point 3. Whether a police officer, or a police station in Subotica, will be able to immediately establish that he has gained the impression or conviction that he is seeking asylum on the basis of his oral statement. Will the officer on duty at that time issue a certificate or not? This is a matter in the jurisdiction of the competent authority, and that means the competent authority again in internal affairs. But you have first-degree and second-degree organs. That's where we differ in the interpretation of this member. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the fourth position is concerned, there's something here that shouldn't stay like this, because it would be the biggest mess in our legal system and legal practice. It is predicted that an authorised police officer shall have the right to search the stranger and his belongings in order to find the IDs and documents necessary to issue the certificate referred to in Article 2(2). You see, we were right. Now you're asking him to have evidence. Mr. Minister, in Article 79. The FPD Section 3 says, what are we going to do now that we're in a situation, the face of the female has arrived, will the policeman search it? He can't. That's where it has to be prescribed. If I was a cop or someone else, literally realizing, someone could say a foreigner came in, looking for asylum, take off your clothes, to search. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be a violation of personality and integrity. However, Mr. Minister, as prescribed by the CAP, it was necessary to stress here and to specify that the authorised official face of the internal affairs authority could carry out a search of a foreigner. But if it's female faces, the search will be conducted by female police officers. Second, the search must be attended by two female witnesses. What do you think? He takes two men and takes one cop and says search. He's putting his hand in his pockets, so if he asks what's right, you're missing, I'm from the inside. Please, that wouldn't be right. Therefore, Mr. Minister, this article should have been upgraded, I end up, it had to stand here - the search should be carried out in accordance with the procedural laws to which you are called in the proposal, which means the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11308	The word is Minister Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11309	We have article 14, Mr. Jojic, and I agree that analogy is sought in other regulations, but Article 14 says that the person seeking asylum will be provided to be heard by the same sex. We can make an analogy, if we're looking for something that's less, then we can do more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11310	Thank you. Replica, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11311	You'd be Mr. Minister right if this were in practice possible without harming other people's rights. So he can betray and conduct the procedure, but he can't when it comes to the process shop – the search of the female's face. Gentlemen, then, for reasons of morals and other reasons, as Mr Markovic has said, it must be precise in the provisions of the law in this article to standardise and prescribe that if a person is female and seek asylum, the search must be carried out by the female. I'm glad we have an educated and educated police force. I'm glad we have a wife today, a cop's girlfriend. That's why it's not a flaw, this isn't 45 years old. It should be in the law, in this provision of a member to write it precisely, and then there will be no mistake, because whoever applies this regulation can make a mistake. The second is what you think as a lawyer. It's okay, but you can have a man with medium professional training, who needs to receive a statement and act on it. So he doesn't make a mistake, you prescribe that he can't do anything else. If a female's face comes, at that moment he must inform the elder, the elder must automatically, without delay, provide a female cop, two female witnesses, and there is no violation of human rights and dignity and morality. That's why we're far from right. What you said to article 14, that's one provision, and it can't be applied to analogy. So it's supposed to be as precise as the norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11312	The word is made by Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11313	Article 14(2) states what you have said, Mr Jojic: "The principle of attitude 1 of this article is always applied when searching, physical examinations and other actions in the process which involve physical contact with the person seeking asylum" and everything under the scope - the principle of gender equality. So it's completely respected, both in the hearing and in the search.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11314	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalović. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ambassador Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11315	I will return to the previous member and to the amendment tabled by the SRS. Namely, the proposer submitted the two-stage procedure. The first-degree procedure will be handled by the Asylum Office, and it will do so in the administrative procedure. However, here we have previous actions that are very important and are proposed in Article 23. It is a very complex procedure, regardless of what is previous, because in this procedure an authorised police officer must make a record, on the basis of certain documents submitted to him by the asylum promoter and the stranger must, as you say here, express his intention to seek asylum. To express his intention, he must speak in the official language or be provided with an official translator, so that he can express that desire. Following the registration, there should be some parent book which records asylum seekers and only on the basis of previous actions, records, certificates, which also has certain pre-operations, etc. In Section 4, the search is unnecessary. This attitude four is unnecessary. Why? When an asylum officer comes to the office, the first thing is to show the documents, to make an identification of the man who's coming. The other thing is to say why he came, and he came because he wants to get asylum status. This search is illusory. As soon as a man comes in and stands up, the official face will kick him out of the M.O.P.'s office. How are you going to search the man who came and can't tell you because you don't understand him, he speaks Arabic. None of the officers know that. So it takes a day, two, three, until you find an official translator. Why would they search him? We've lost a lot of time, but I think whoever came up with this bill made a mistake, didn't live up to the point where he took pictures and came up with a possible situation. I think that item 4 is extremely unnecessary and should be thrown out of the proposal as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11316	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ambassador John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11317	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 25. The asylum law proposal, by proposing to replace the number "15" in Article 25, with the number "8", after the word "registration", is replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. The term "Minister" is replaced by "Ministership". I consider it an asylum procedure, i.e. shelters to an urgent stranger and that deadlines must be shorter and more specific, i.e. Too inclusive, because of the possibility of many abuses. That is why I believe that the eight-day deadline is more appropriate and adequate for this matter than the 15-day deadline proposed by the draft of this law. I also suggested erasing the justified cases, which envisioned the bill, so that the office could extend this deadline. Practically, this means that if the stranger were to remain, he could remain in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for years without even starting the procedure. For these very reasons, we need to shorten our deadlines and prevent abuses. I also believe that the content and appearance of the asylum form is prescribed by the ministry, in particular the MUP, as opposed to the bill, which prescribes that the contents and appearance of the asylum form are prescribed by the minister. What if the Minister, God forbid, something happens?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11318	Is anyone else answering this amendment? National MP Petar Jojic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Daya Jovan tabled an amendment to Article 25(1) and suggested that this procedure be shortened after all. As he suggested, I think he should be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's a delay in the amnesty law. Why do we come to this law, if adopted, with delay? Don't forget. The reminders, ladies and gentlemen, who caused the persecution, who caused the whole world and the globe, to have millions and millions of refugees? This is America, which has produced and led more than 280 wars from 1945 to today in other people’s territories. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also remind the citizens of Serbia what "Storm" has brought, which is like a defeat that wants to turn into victory, what these American benefactors and followers have done in the area of the former SFRJ, the former SRJ and what they are doing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. How many houses were destroyed in the Storm? 24,752 houses were destroyed and destroyed. These are the latest studies of historians. 12,431 businesses owned by Serbs were destroyed. 172 cooperative homes have been destroyed. 56 ambulances have been destroyed. 78 churches have been destroyed. 79 museums were destroyed, 181 cemetery. Trade facilities destroyed 325. Water and sewerage 113, trafostation 96, destroyed 920 monuments. The craftsmanship was destroyed and destroyed by 410. Storage 118, and the number of dead and missing is tens of thousands. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm saying this because of history, because of what these NATO humanitarian pacts and from America have done to us in material damage, estimated at around $100 billion. This is what I wanted to remind us of, what these enemies of the Serbian people and occupiers did to us, and how much damage they did to the Serbian state and other citizens in the neighbouring republics. Let me be allowed, I can't help but mention the innocently injured three young men on the territory of the Tchaitin municipality, i.e. in the Ribnica village, when three young men sat in their company in one house at night. This is Savik Milanko of Father Radojica, Marjanović Radojje of Father Slavko and another friend of his from Čajetina Pujo, and these two are from the village of Jablanica, i.e. from Ribnica. All three died because the enemy fired on that house rocket, so those poor young men, one 18, one 21, one 19, burned in the ashes. It was your humanitarian action that was these enemies and the Merciful Angel. What are these three young men whose parents today mourn the entire village and the municipalities for those three young men, who were civilians and sat in their homes, and the enemy had nowhere to shoot? Why isn't an eggplant in Florida territory? Why didn't he shoot there on their territory, but instead focus not on California, but on small Serbia? So, ladies and gentlemen, we must fight not to really let that happen again. We in Serbia, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, must be masters, and we cannot be servants. Mr. Minister, I mentioned the John Glamochan case this morning. You might be right, maybe you don't know who ordered it to be the police, one foreign intelligence agent and one police officer, just asking the question - was it a member of the Internal Affairs Service or Biya or military security? I ask the question and ask if you will be able to check who did the illegal search at the Jovan Glamocani in Pancheva, on Veljko Vlahovica Street No. 11, apartment 14, on 15 November of this year? Look at the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. The law stipulates, in Article 10, that the UN tribunal's investigators should behave. Please, the UN tribunal's investigators in this country must behave in accordance with Article 10 and in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because they are now Article 10. The law on co-operation with The Hague obliges that procedural laws and rules of national legislation must be respected where they take certain investigative actions. Secondly, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know, the last 10 days have been a frequency of calling citizens on the phone, and you're a lawyer for a long time, a respected minister, I guarantee you don't approve of such things. Maybe, but then I'm wrong. I think it is inadmissible that our citizens do not have security and security, and security and security under the Internal Affairs and Constitution Act is provided by internal affairs authorities and other state bodies, i.e. BIA, military, but BIA knows what to do. I can't claim now that you knew. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, we received a number of phone calls yesterday informing us that the UN tribunal's investigators are on the phone. They order and invite citizens to come to the Hague office in Belgrade, without a call. Where's that? This isn't even in Bangladesh. It is known that the Code of Criminal Procedure prescribes that citizens can be called upon, but the call must indicate in which capacity they are called and that they have the right to take a lawyer. These are the provisions of the new Code of Criminal Procedure in force. Secondly, the call must indicate the reason for the call, whether he is a suspect or is called as a citizen to make a certain notification. Citizens are now in doubt about what to do, and I am informing citizens who are invited this way by phone, because someone can falsely introduce themselves, our citizen must receive a written call and be called to indicate in the invitation which authority invites him, when, in what capacity, where and with the presence of defenders, or lawyers. I'm inviting these citizens without a written call so they don't answer. Now they've invited some people to Zvornik. They invited a man to come to the bar in Little Zvornik tomorrow. Wait, please, can we tolerate it and allow it? That's not good, people. Please, as a lawyer, I can't advise citizens now that every phone call should come. No, just by written means an invitation to comply with the CAP, in accordance with the provisions of the Hague tribunal law, although I think it should be changed as soon as possible. To be clear, the UN tribunal's investigators are going through Serbia. Second, they call on citizens in this way. It can't be, it's against the Constitution. I advise every citizen when a state authority calls him on any basis, that he is obliged to answer a written call. It's okay. But if anyone calls to a bar tomorrow, you come to Little Zvornik, to a coffee shop near Sulja, to what it looks like, or to Shaya or to Paia. It can't be like that. It's something inadmissible. That's why I wanted to bring this up, to suggest that the Home Secretary take measures to prevent these things from being warned and prevented. The UN tribunal's investigators should act, but only according to the rules. The 77th Rules of Procedure of the Hague tribunal norms and regulations that are the powers of Hague investigators when they act in our country and in Article 10 if they are potential witnesses. That's why what's done is done against the SRS, it's done directly against Vojislav Seselj and you can't, Mr. Minister, shake your hands to sit down, and I believe you'll take action. You are informed of this today, we will keep the public informed, because we believe that this and what an important issue is to achieve and protect the rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11320	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 93. A Rules of Procedure that regulates the minister's participation and to exploit your participation, Mr. Jocic. Personally, it seems to me, correct me if I'm wrong, for at least 16 years you've known Professor Vojislav Seselj. You're an expert lawyer. In a number of calls, you were an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I believe that as a Serb and as a patriot, so you plead and present yourself, you were proud of what Professor Vojislav Seselj spoke at Mitrovica on November 8th, in The Hague tribunal, when he began his brilliant defense against those villains who wanted to deal with every Serb who honorably defended his country and his people. Mr. Jocic, when it was the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, I asked you a question, before that, Mrs. Radeta, it seems to me that you have also given a written reply, that the office of The Hague tribunal is located in the Street of Jevrem Grujic, Belgrade. I asked you, you told me, you answered the same thing by my colleague Radeti, that the MUP had taken over the responsibilities of the former federal MUP, and that there was a porter, actually a guard, a police officer, who provided, as well as with all other diplomatic ones, as you said, representing the office of the UN tribunal in Belgrade, which is, in the right sense, a prison, or place where people are being abused, tortured and harassed, as Mr Jojic spoke of. Again, I say to you and apologize to certain people who will be witnesses of the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj, some of them were your colleagues long ago in this assembly here, and they are appreciated and celebrated by the Chetnik dukes. I told you back then that they were held there for 48 or 72 hours. No matter what, they told me it's been going on for days, they were going to take people there and be seven to ten days. So this gentleman, whom these villains are persecuting these days, responded to the presentation of her colleague, Verica Radeta, in the afternoon part of the session, because it's happening here in Belgrade today. I believe, and you cannot say otherwise, Mr Jocic, but the entire domestic public, as well as all the people from all over the world who have followed the testimony, that is, the statement of our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and as a doctor of legal science and as a politician, as the man who gave the testimony of one time, who made a historical elaborate in front of the court council who apparently knows nothing, I suggest to you, Mr. Jocic, since it is happening today that Christine Dahl is staying in Belgrade, that he violates the powers given to her and that the police begin to question her because of the fact that he violates all the powers that he has in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So you can now act as a minister, believe in the word of the people who are on the defense team of Professor Vojislav Seselj. You've been approached by the people that this unfortunate woman is persecuting, misusing. She's asking people to come to this idiot Vukcevic's office and listen to them there. He violates, therefore, every standard of international law, the authority that he has as a representative of the prosecution that charges and accuses people of the justice of God. You have a nice opportunity today, this day, and it is also a holiday, to celebrate as Dragan Jocic, to be brought under the emergency of Kristina Dahl to the first police station, 29th or already where, and that your fellow officers are being questioned and banned from coming, to have a nice lady deported and never be able to come to Serbia again and act like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11322	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Serbia is entering the phase of securing asylum laws, and in the previous phase, which lasts 17 years, only in Serbia's territory has joined several hundred thousand refugees, making displaced persons, as you have called them all, however, Serbs from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija, and as things stand, both in Republika Srpska, and on the issue of what your employers call the final solution to the status of Kosovo and Metohija, some more waves of Serbs will blend into Serbia. In doing so, we must not forget the recently formed independent Montenegro, in which the Serbs have been expelled from the constitution. Similarly happened to Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. It is that of Montenegro, which was visited by Defence Minister Sutanovac these days and signed with the Minister of Defence, who, among other things, predicts that we are training military personnel for Montenegro, I suppose for free, because many from Montenegro have been educated in Serbia and all that has been educated, which has acquired knowledge and calling and education, has been educated here. In doing so, Minister Sutanovac visited almost all political parties, forgot only to visit, visit and meet with Serbian parties, with parties on the Serb list. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be surprised when tomorrow's disfellowshipped Serbs right now and from Montenegro go to Serbia. We have time-proposed dual citizenship, it seems to me that it has not been resolved and the question is what will continue to happen. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted an amendment to Article 26, where he asked in Article 1 to be said "in the shortest possible time", as a deadline that was absolutely undefined, replacing the words "in 24 hours". An explanation why the amendment of MP Srboljub Zivanovic, an SRS MP, has been rejected -- the government does not accept the amendment because it is not an imagined legal consequence of missing a 24-hour deadline by an authorised asylum officer. Speaking of this asylum office, since this Western tit, through which NGOs have been formed all the time, by the bulldozer of the revolution, and we mention and get quite fat, has begun to dry up and needs to find earrings for Natasa Kandić and hers, Sonja Biserko and hers, Sonja Licht and hers, etc. There's so many of these NGOs, they're like mushrooms after the rain. Since you've taken care of the agencies, the assistant ministers, in various offices so far all of your card holders, not to mention all of your members, because you have one amorphous body, which as the government changes, so they go over to that side, so you've taken care of them, at least you've provided bread for them. I assure you that when the SRS takes over the helm of this state soon, such a body will not cross the SRS, it will not be accepted. But let's go back to the amendment and this 24-hour period. Is it less than 24 hours for the border office to receive an asylum officer, complete that procedure and resolve the question? Why the shortest possible deadline and how short is the shortest possible deadline? Is that the shortest time limit you can use for 24 hours, or will it last for three days, seven days, 15 days, until you can solve the problem? There is another major problem Serbia will face these days. It's about reading, the law on reading is now in the process and will soon be at the polls. You are pressured by your employers to receive all those who have left Serbia in due time, not asking them if they would like to return. What is much worse than all of this, many foreign citizens have passed through the state of Serbia, especially in times of war, after war, weather ravine. They went west, there were abuses, so maybe they got passports. Let me remind you that many Albanians from Albania, getting passports down in Kosovo and Metohija, where members of the interior ministry worked their nationality, went through the state of Serbia with our passport, went and sought political asylum there. It will now happen that in addition to all this, in addition to all the problems we have, another 150,000 asylumees, returnees, will be joined by the readmission system. That's another 150,000 hungry mouths, Mr. Minister. That's what the government doesn't seem to be thinking. You didn't take it as a way, not you, I mean the government, you didn't take it as a way to ask for some favor for it. The funds they offer you, they promise, are first negligible and too small to cover the actual costs of those people who come to the readmission. You haven't thought about what you're going to do with the people who came from Iran, Iraq, Albania, other countries, go through, Serbia was their leak and go away. Where are you gonna put them back? He'll stay here. It will remain on the burden of the Serbian state. Mr. Millyvoy, come out for a pay phone, so say what you have, don't throw it away, I don't throw it to you. Otherwise, I refrain from throwing away whenever speakers come out for this pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's high time the minister realized that all the amendments to the SRS were simply designed to improve the text of the law, to customize it, and that this legal project could work tomorrow in legal traffic. There is no evil intention and no intention of destroying the project. All that was ruined came from the West, so your copyists, the Resave school, signed bill proposals or some ministry ignorants wrote those laws. There are few laws written in the ministry that are actually written with the intention of living in the Serbian state's legal system. I remind you of those 260 and some laws, of which not even 30 can be applied now, and they served to praise ministers with it. In doing so, I don't think this law is such a law, but if you want a good law, listen to the MPs of the SRS, adopt their amendments. It'll be a quality and applicable law. Finally, in a country of absurdity, like Serbia today, anything is possible. It is possible to fill the country, not only our citizens, of Serbia, who for political, economic or any other reason went west, and are now returning them to us according to the readmission system. It is possible to receive many others from other countries, and worst of all, those who are ready for both terrorist and other activities may also come. There's a lot going on in the West. Things went through Serbia and went west thanks to a red passport that had a price on the market, many were buying passports and leaving, especially from Kosovo and Metohija. It will all return to Serbia now. Consider how many problems the state of Serbia will face, in addition to economic problems, besides financial problems, how many problems the state of Serbia will have with them when they return. Don't let similar things happen in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11324	Thank you. By amendment, MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11325	Minister, I must confess, I did not understand your explanation for the amendment of our MP Martinovic, that he was not in the spirit of the law. Our amendments are in the spirit of precision, efficiency. This amendment seeks, it is also linked to Mr. Martinovic's amendment, to make everything accurate, not to be general. You stressed, well, you don't trust our coalition, you have trust, that's not the point. You don't know how much, you even know some segments, it's so sensitive, there's so much abuse from some of our M.O.P. officers in these situations. When a man called an asylumist comes in fear of having to feel at once safe, you have to give him the exact time when he's going to make a statement, i.e. He needs to be an asylum lawyer right away and when he's going to be questioned. Then he'll feel safe, not at the mercy of a militiaman, or a man from the border, who'll look at him with sympathy or no sympathy. In practice, there are many examples of other things that don't happen by law. You know, about visas for example, people from the Middle East who come with visas, everything's legal, everything's fine, at the airport put them there in transit as terrorists until they're questioned. The last example was a month ago. A friend of ours, a university professor, who even had a letter from our embassy in Libya, who wants to make it easy for him, and they're harassing him until someone says, let's let him go, and he's got a neat visa. That's how they behave at the border. For example, for citizenship, the man who got a pension here, his wife, children are Serbs, have Serbian citizenship, and he can't get citizenship until today. He filed a motion. Whenever it goes, they say what's in your hurry. There are cases of abuse. It doesn't mean that the militia is bad or good, but it needs to be made clear by law. We have a precise law here, but it's not respected. Imagine when there's no precise, like the shortest time possible. What does that mean? That could be a year. No one can tell a man that he's violated official authority if he's three or four months late, a year, he says -- there were no proper documents, for example, we've been waiting for them to get the documents. It can't be inaccuracy. The basic goal of every law is to be precise, that it can be applied. If it's not accurate, it's either this one or that one. So I would ask you to accept the spirit of our amendments, so that all members of the law are precise, that it can be applied. You know there are a lot of precise things that are not applied because the European Union asks you to do so, such as visa and entry regimes, for example. So think a little bit more seriously about these arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11326	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Security has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Vukelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11327	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have submitted a large number of amendments in order to improve in a constructive way, i.e. correcting the shortcomings of this asylum law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I have made concerns Article 32, which regulates the submission of a new asylum application lodged by an asylum-seeking person. The member reads: a foreigner whose asylum application was previously rejected in the Republic of Serbia may submit a new application if it provides evidence that the circumstances relevant for the recognition of the right to asylum and the granting of the right to subsidiary protection have changed significantly in the meantime. In the amendment that I have submitted, I propose that after the word "new request" the words "in six months from the date of refusal of the request" should be added. I believe that a certain time limit must be given to a foreign citizen when he can re-apply in order to prevent possible abuses. Otherwise, it would mean that a foreign person, on the basis of its free assessment, would have provided relevant evidence for the recognition of the right to shelter, could hypothetically submit a new application every seven days or every other day and thereby abuse the right afforded to it by this proposal of the law. So, with this amendment, that possible abuse would be diminished and that certain legal gap that exists here would be overcome. During the debate in the principle of a proposal for an asylum law, the MPs of the SRS have reasoned on all the shortcomings of this law. One of the basic questions that is being asked is whether Serbia has the strength and opportunity to, in addition to a huge number of refugees, then internally displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, or exiles, then those who will be returned to Serbia under the law on readmission, now and foreign citizens, persons who are not Serbs, to asylum and to give them adequate conditions for normal life. Before receiving anyone, the state of Serbia is obliged to provide basic conditions for the life of our Serbs, expelled and refugees, many of whom now live in truly inhumane, inhumane conditions by collective centres throughout Serbia. We have heard that there are several categories of asylum seekers, which are economic, political and social. I just want to take a brief look at the category of political asylum seekers. We will come practically into a paradoxical situation that the current government gives asylum to foreign citizens who are victims of political persecution in their country, which in certain cases is not disputed. But the question arises, what about our citizens who are victims of political persecution in their own country? I will remind only of the innocent people arrested in the "Sabbe" action, not to mention the case of kidnapping and shameful extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague Quasid, then writing a false indictment against Vojislav Seselj in Belgrade, then persecuting members of the families of people indicted before the anti-Serbian Hague tribunal, and then arresting General Zdravko Tolimir, etc. It is indeed a special curiosity that the government, which in such a motherly way refers to its own citizens, is now passing an asylum law that will provide shelter and protection to foreign citizens. Based on the information we are receiving today, how Hague investigators are running around Serbia and harassing our citizens, it seems our citizens in their own country will have to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11328	I thank my colleague. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? Milorad Buhha, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11329	Thank you, Chairman. A few days ago when we discussed in principle the proposal for an asylum law, there were also talks about the exchange of assets, mobile and immovable, between Serbs and Croats. We have to continue this issue, and then I suggested that certain commissions be formed to carry out a review of all the swap agreements and all the sales contracts that were in the 1990s. And on and on. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has made one proposal, I will now refer it to the President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister, now I will hand it over to the chairman who will hand it over to the president, there is the interior minister who will hand it over to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Republika Srpska government in persecution, who advocates reviewing all contracts. It is historical justice, the historic duty of us to correct all the sufferings that occurred both to Serbs and Croats in those '90s. For years. We have several international conventions and declarations that oblige us to do so, and we have one agreement that was signed in 2001, accepted and ratified by all the former Yugoslav states. He is from 2001, our country ratified it next year, Croatia last ratified in 2004. So now, we have a conflict agreement in front of us, Section G of Article 2, it is envisaged, it is private property and acquired rights, in the provision of that Article 2, it is said that all those contracts and all the substitutes that have come under pressure, in fear of retribution, that they are void and, as such, we must put and carry out a revision today. The proposal of the Republika Srpska government in persecution is to form a central commission at the level of the Republic of Serbia, the same at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and the municipal commission in places where replacements and purchases were made. I think it's an easy task, we're going to remove the historical injustice that we've done to people, and the states are going to do to each other a beating, because otherwise, according to the provisions of the Succession Act, they're bound to do it. With both state and private property, you need to sit down, you need to talk. It's been 15 years, and 16 years is under way, of those injustices that we've done to both people. It's an opportunity to remove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11330	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11331	Thank you very much, Mr. Dwarf. I will talk about an amendment to my 34th colleague, Dragoljub Anastasovski, but before that, I have two sentences to return to my fellow Serbian counterparts' amendment, to show on this case how the Government of the Republic of Serbia wrote this bill as something by the way. Half the things forget, one word they forget to write, one word they can do without, and without it, they can do without two words, like they're in a race, let's take off the agenda, let's do this proposal of the asylum law, there those MPs, our majority of the assembly, will vote for the proposal whatever it is, and what these radicals are going to say, it doesn't matter. We think it's very important and that's why we want to talk about this law and try a serious explanation to bring you closer to these amendments. I'm sorry, and it's really embarrassing to look at this side of the hall where MPs of the congregation's majority are sitting, where literally the number is currently in the hall of seven MPs of the congregation's majority. It is truly amazing that you are so not interested in what is being done in this House. We understand and understand that today is the glory of baptism, that a large number of Serbian citizens celebrate, that a large number goes to glory and we will be with our friends and relatives tonight, may be a happy celebration for everyone, but our friends and relatives will understand why we can't come in two or four hours, but we don't understand MPs who are even the reason why they don't sit down today and not participate in the work when it comes to this law. This is not a harmless law at all. I don't know if you understand what the matter of this law is or what the essence of this law is. On the sloppyness of this text, it is best to refer to the example set out in Article 26, where counterpart Srboljub Zivanovic suggested that the words of the proposal "in the shortest time" be replaced by the words "in 24 hours". Of course, I don't understand why this amendment has not been accepted, the amendment has passed, and it has not been accepted by the minister, because of the public, above all, I want to read the government's argument why this amendment has not been accepted. The government says it does not accept the amendment because it is not an imagined legal consequence of missing a 24-hour deadline by an authorised asylum office official. If this is an unimaginable situation, then why is the problem of writing it and being clearly, loudly and precisely written? Unbelievable. We have completed the debate on this amendment, and now we are talking about an amendment to Article 34(3). Article 34 speaks of suspending the proceedings and puking in the previous situation. In Article 3(3) of the asylum procedure will be suspended on official duty if an asylum-seeking person, and then listed in which cases, and in paragraph 3, says that a person seeking asylum may, within three days of the day of termination, be free of a call for a hearing or an untimely application of a change of address, submit a return proposal to the previous situation. Our proposal is to extend this three-day period to an eight-day period. For practical reasons, because if we go back to the previous members of this law, which we talked about today and how you deliver, you don't deliver, how you treat asylum seekers at all, how refugees. In this whole, and especially as you do not treat Serbia, it is directed to colleagues who have thrown it - how they treat Serbia, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, do not treat Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia in the way this country deserves, which these citizens deserve, and evidence that this is how daily strikes are, are layoffs from work, are stores, are small pensions, are small salaries. A colleague, when you mentioned, so let me tell you everything, that is, a fraction of how your government cares about the citizens of Serbia. We're talking about the asylum law. Why did we think it would take three days to extend to eight days? There may be a situation where the person seeking asylum has some excuse, say, a disease that lasts longer than three days. He missed that deadline. Of course the deadline has to exist and of course it can't be unlimited. But it's an inappropriate deadline, when you don't accept here in this Article 26 that this shortest deadline is replaced by 24 hours, and that shortest deadline, because you don't want it to be marked as 24 hours, can be three days. It's a short deadline. What if these two deadlines match and when this person in article 34 is going to apply for a previous condition? There's no deadline at all. Mr. Minister, I repeat, the law was done with a left foot, not a hand. It's amazing how many failures and I don't understand why you don't accept the amendments, or even better variants would be, nice to return and tell those who translated this to you that they're bad translators and that they do this as God commands and that we have a law that would really look like the law. Why don't you accept the amendment of your colleague Anastasia and why you don't want the word "three" to replace the word "eight" or to extend that deadline to your previous condition from three to eight days. You won't because the government says you don't accept this amendment because this pre-exclusive deadline starts to run from the moment the justified reasons why the asylum seeker was prevented from informing the Asylum Office about the change in address of residence, so the length of the disease or the length of the other reasonable reason could not lead to a missing period within which he has the right to use this remedy. First of all, I don't know what law this is for you. I don't know where it says that the deadline begins from the moment the justified reasons are stopped. You mean everything in this law. Everything in this law you mean and for everything you say, you're not gonna, you're not gonna, are you? I still argue that the law cannot be written like this, that the legal text must be concise, concrete, understandable and easy to apply. Obviously, you did this for some of your known reasons and you had to do it quickly. We will continue, while our amendments continue, to try to convince you to adopt the amendments. Every time I speak, I will ask you ministers to withdraw this proposal. I have to use these few minutes to say a few sentences about the situation that Jojic and Ms. Natasa Jovanovic spoke about, because it is incomprehensible to me, Mr. Minister, that in no way have you responded to what your colleagues in the SRS have said in any way. The fact that Kristina Dahl is in Belgrade, with a group of Hague investigators, that in the special court of that Vukčević, the one who catches pigeon writers carrying messages to Ratko Mladic cannot catch them, and let alone Mladic, thank God, therefore, that fact does not arouse you at all. We explain to you, in fact, colleague Jojic and colleague Natasa Jovanovic, and now I will repeat. They are here, Mr. Jocic, above all Christine Dahl, to provide false witnesses in the Hague trial against Professor Vojislav Seselj. She calls, and I don't know if you've had a chance to look at Dr. Vojislav Seselj's book "The Hague Instrumentisation of False Witnesses". In that book, 34 court-confirmed statements were conveyed by people who explained that in a harsh, monstrous, and most dirty way they were tried by Hague investigators to be convinced, forced, bought, I don't know what term to use, to be false witnesses against Vojislav Seselj. Do I really have to explain this to you in detail, so maybe then you'll understand the weight of this problem? These people to whom the Hague prosecution was counting have made clear to the Hague prosecutor's office that they do not want to be witnesses of the Hague prosecutor's office by forwarding these certified statements to the defence team Vojislav Seselj. They are now chasing these people, trying to cheat them, blackmail them, false promises, to explain to them that they only need to get to a special court, so that they can talk to them again, so they can sign that record they didn't sign, so they can take a photo to show that they were communicating with The Hague tribunal. They say only you go to The Hague tribunal, so testify as you wish, but it's important that you go there. These men, Mr. Jocic, do not want to go to The Hague tribunal as witnesses to the indictment. They are ready to witness the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj. We, as members of the defence team of Vojislav Seselj, are asking you, and you are under obligation, since you are doing huge services as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Hague Prosecutor's Office, are asking you to protect these people. From this place I'm ordering these people to call us who they've contacted before, not to respond to phone calls, come here and here, that they have to get a call in writing to respond to the competent authority. A special question for you, Mr. Jocic, is - since this morning you have had time to find out, who is the person who presented himself to be a representative of the MUP, who is with Hague investigators and some people in boys who don't speak Serbian, who is the man who introduced himself to the house of Jovan Glamocani, when they came to search, when they came to scare him and his family, because they thought that John Glamocanin would be their witness, although they were informed that he was a potential witness of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, but they came with a man who introduced himself to be a representative of the MUP. You must know, Mr. Jocic. I insist you say that right now. You may not know the name, but you need to know if there is a service within your ministry, whether there are people following Kristina Dahl and the Hague investigators, who, along with them, are breaking into the house of potential witnesses of the defence of Vojislav Seselj, who intimidate their families. So, you have to tell us if you're doing it, does Rade Bulatovic do it, whether it's another service or a third service, is it some agent that has nothing to do with Serbia? You have to tell the MPs, you have to tell them for the sake of the public, for those terrified families, who comes to their door and pretends to be a member of the MUP and takes everything off their computers, examines the books, examines the pictures, the tuba house, without any authority, without a warrant, Mr. Jocic. This is not harmless at all, and you must, as resolute minister, give us an answer immediately. If tomorrow is the day when we ask parliamentary questions, we will have many concrete questions to answer, but this is, in accordance with Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure, a situation that does not suffer delays, because while we are sitting here, three people have called me to call them on the phone and to invite them to come see Hague investigators and Christine Dahl in the Special Court of War Crimes. Mr. Jocic, I know that you are your government very humble in front of Karl del Ponte, including this Christine Dahl, but you must bear in mind that your superior task is to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11332	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to Article 35, I would like to refer a little bit to the amendment submitted by Ivica Dacic to Article 31, regardless of what, on the proposal of the Committee, his amendment has been adopted. I don't know what the procedure is, but the second point is, 'he committed a serious crime that is not political character outside the Republic of Serbia'. I think we're getting into a serious problem. What does it mean if he committed a crime of political character? Are we giving a message to someone that we are going to give serious crimes that are political character upholstery, or that we are going to give asylum to such perpetrators? This isn't harmless at all. I think we should think about it and put this second attitude into practice, so there won't be any dilemma about it. Not to list many cases from our country and our environment now. We serve the Hague tribunal here by chasing, arresting and delivering people who have committed no crime, who were obliged to do their duty, and we, precisely because it is a political crime against the United States, or the EU, or the new world order, practically, we capture and deliver them here, and they are being processed in The Hague. And in another way, by this attitude, we precisely define that if it's a serious crime, but it's not a political character, it can't win, and if it's a political character, then it can win. You need to take another look at it and think about it. As for the amendment proposed by Mr Bozidar Delic to Article 35, and this is one of the amendments that is related to accuracy, i.e. the exact formulation, so that no dilemma remains. Article 35 says: "against first-degree decisions taken in the asylum procedure, the appeal shall be lodged within 15 days of the date of the first-degree decision". It is true that some things are understood, but it is known that the asylum office is in the first degree, it decides on asylum. If there is no positive solution, if the applicant complains, then it should be written to the exact second-degree authority. In this case, the second-degree body is a commission. We think that this way would be completely accurate, there would be no dilemma. That would clearly be a specific address for one who complains, without any problem, to whom he would have to refer his appeal if he was unhappy with the original solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11334	National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11335	Mr. Djudjevic, Mr. Minister, speaking of this law, as an authorised representative of the SPS, I have pointed to a problem that can arise from Article 31, Article 31. I questioned this attitude. It is said: 'The right to asylum will not be recognised by the persons for which there are serious reasons... that it committed a serious crime that wasn't political. If you remember, then I said it wasn't possible. Afterwards, the Committee on Security, chaired by Mr Dacic, made one amendment in line with the Rules of Procedure that did not correspond to what I was saying here. I must say that this is not Mr Dacic's personal position, but the Committee, and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, such an amendment, which Mr Todorovic has now disputed, is right, because it was not the essence of what we, as the SPS, have advocated here. It's just a coincidence. So Mr. Dacic had to sign the amendment adopted by the board. That's the point, and everything else will be settled in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11336	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11337	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, let me ask you again, given the amendment submitted by Mr. Bozidar Delic, concerns Article 35. The law, which speaks of a deadline for appeal and by observing only a deadline, says in the bill that it is 15 days. Of course, previously in Articles 19 and 20 of the Law, it is precisely regulated who is first-degree decision, the Asylum Office. In the second degree, who is who decides, or commission appointed by the Government, to decide on the decisions of the Asylum Office. The essence of this amendment is to specify that thing. I ask now, Mr. Minister, what does it cost you to accept this amendment? What's the damage? It doesn't hurt, it doesn't disturb the law. The law is otherwise very serious, delicate and it does not matter what kind of approach we will have for Serbia, starting with when the law is passed. Please understand this as a good intention. Nothing here is suggested against the concept of the law, anything that will disturb you, etc., that you cannot implement what you imagine with your concept. The aim here was to make it more precise and clear that, within 15 days, a complaint was filed about the decision of the first-degree body to the second-degree body or commission formed. This, as the thought suggests, is understood, people should also know the Law of Administrative Procedure, etc. This is also used by people who don't know all these legal procedures, how, what should be done. That's why I'm asking-- what's the problem with standing up to a second-degree organ? Therefore, a second-degree body is formed to consider complaints brought by a first-degree body. If a second-degree authority is to apply the Law on Administrative Procedure, please return to the Asylum Office so that it can reconsider and can correct that decision again eventually. That's why I don't see any reason. One correct amendment that we'll support, which doesn't disturb anything, costs nothing, doesn't hurt. I don't really see any interference, and yet it explains things. It's important to us that this matter be at the beginning clear when the law is passed. Very briefly, the essence of the involvement of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to Article 31 was not to carry out the order of words as it was committed, instead of a serious crime of political character, except for political reasons, so a crime has now been committed, and our essence is crime and there is no political or political character and reason. Just so we're clear in the beginning. Here, Mr. Minister, I ask - what's it cost to adopt this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11338	National MP Ivana Zečević submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the moment we discuss the asylum law, Serbia is being held by the Hague gang. Now we got another call from another witness who would testify as a witness to the defense in the process of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, that they were coming to him too, that they had entered his house, that they were harassing him, harassing his family. I'm calling you, Minister, you've got the police, you've got the gendarmes, you stop those hooligans. They can behave in The Hague by breaking the rules they've brought. The UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure and Evidence, Article 77, implies that if someone declares that he is a witness to the defence, that all contacts must end with him at that time. If anyone declares to be a witness to the prosecution, a team that helps defend that second must terminate all contact with him. Is there a law in this country, does the citizens of Serbia have the right to freedom, security, inviolability of the apartment, all other rights? Or are we going to play law, state, ministry, everything, because we're going to Europe. This Europe today is serving Serbia. Today, this Europe is harassing Serbian citizens. Today, this Europe is scrutinizing people who have declared unequivocally that they will be witnesses of the defence of Professor Vojislav Seselj. Little is it to them that in the street of Jevrem Grujic 11 they have made a prison where Serbian citizens are held, breaking them down to become the prosecution's witnesses. Mr. Minister, you have the authority and the obligation to protect the citizens of Serbia, do it. National MP Ivana Zecevic has submitted an amendment to Article 38, where she asks that item 1 in item 7 after the word "registration" be added to the words "bringinging the competent ministry". For the sake of clarity, both for you and Serbian citizens, I will read this Article 38 - The rights and obligations of foreigners who have been granted temporary protection: ''A foreigner who has been granted temporary protection has the right to: 1) stay until the period of validity of temporary protection; 2) a correction confirming his status and right of stay (that means some legislation which will be able to be legitimateized before the authorities of law and state); 3) health protection in accordance with the regulations governing the health protection of foreigners. ''As for health care, of course they will get health care, but I remind you that Serbian citizens almost have a fraction of the health care they had before the bulldozer revolution. Take a look at the positive list of medicines that Serbian citizens can get on prescription. The smaller list is growing, more and more medicines you can buy at the pharmacy, more and more reviews, more and more checks you have to pay, less health care, and we, although Serbia's citizens who pay taxes from which the state of Serbia lives, will provide health care to foreigners. But as we have already committed ourselves and to enable them to continue ''4) free elementary and secondary education in public schools according to a special regulation. 'Mr. Minister, secondary education is no longer free for citizens of Serbia. The fact that they don't pay their tuition fat pay through textbooks, through teaching tools, through equipment, accessories, everything else. Citizens who will come from the white world and apply to us as asylum seekers, the state of Serbia, from the tax charged by Serbian citizens, will have to provide this. Further: ''5) legal assistance under conditions prescribed for asylum seekers (also another cost for the state of Serbia); 6) freedom of religion, under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. ''Will this mean that we will have to provide religious facilities in that place of asylum for all kinds of concessions because we will have believers of all religions to appear. In the end, point 7, to which we have otherwise submitted the amendment - ''7) accommodation according to a special regulation. ''The MP, Ivana Zecevic, asked that the words "bringing the competent ministry" be added after the word "registration". Explains why the amendment of MP Ivana Zecevic was not accepted: "The government does not accept the amendment because, according to Article 36. The draft law, on the provision of temporary protection, is decided by the Government, so that the accommodation of a foreigner who has been granted temporary protection is regulated by a special regulation – a regulation adopted by the Government. It is also unclear from the amendment which ministry would be responsible for the regulation. 'Scuse me, please, and which ministry has passed this bill before the MPs? What ministry wrote this bill and brought it to the National Assembly? The M.O.P. Well, we can't discuss the Ministry of Faith, let's just say, if the M.E.P. makes a bill and it's explained by the minister here. So it refers to the MUP. I think we've cleared this dilemma of my discussion, and I think that, Minister, you might be able to accept this amendment, a team before many of the acts that come from the government often know that they're unarranged, especially when it comes to specific cases. If I didn't remind you of a series of cases where SRS MPs were fiercely attacking some unfavorable and unspeakable proposals because they worked many, and the people of Serbia say - a lot of midwives, so they'd like to touch everything, to see and then to see the child squirmly. That is why this proposal is in the amendment that the competent ministry, referring to the interior ministry, adopts a regulation for accommodation in accordance with a special regulation. So he would be this seventh member - who brings home the Ministry of Interior. I call upon you, Minister, to accept this amendment and to resolve another indetermination of this law and to make the law truly applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11340	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Vlado Sekulić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39. The amendment reads in Article 39(2) of the word "Minister of Power" is replaced by the word "Minister of Jurisdiction". The SRS' position is already known, which believes the regulations must be brought by the ministry, not by the minister and the minister, and even by the ministry's institutions. Article 39(2) reads as follows: ''At the time of admission to the Asylum Centre, all persons seeking asylum shall be medically examined in a manner established by the regulation adopted by the Minister responsible for health. ''I am not directly speaking to Mr. Jocic because this is not his ministry, the minister here is in charge of health and he is making regulations on health care. Then the question arises, it is really small and illogical, whether the minister in this case will determine and treat people who are being examined, whether the minister is a doctor of general practice, a specialist, and why, if he is the man who makes the rules and laws, then the economic factor of the general justification of the Ministry of Health is set out. If there are 10-15 advisors, then you calculate all the other factors and funds that have been invested in that ministry, and here only the minister is asking himself, and he decides all of that. The reason was that under the State Administration Act, the minister was authorised to lay down regulations, and neither was the ministry, and that is under Article 23(2). I now believe, as well as the SRS's position, that the minister cannot be above the ministry, and then the question really arises if the minister is the one who decides everything, I don't mean you now, Mr Jocic, but this is in the domain of the Ministry of Health, then the question is whether it is general justification, both economic and any justification, of the entire ministry. What is terribly interesting and what citizens should know, which is part of the government's reasoning and explanations on the basis of legal institutes and individual solutions, since Article 39 belongs to Chapter 6. Here, I will read this argument, and then we will conclude that many, according to this explanation, Serbian citizens who do not seek asylum will ask to be voluntarily in asylum, because there is a beautiful story here, a promised country, everything is beautifully packaged, and we will see what the reality is, let the citizens themselves judge what reality is from all of this. The reasons for Chapter 6 are as follows: 'Achieving the rights and obligations of persons seeking asylum, refugees and persons assigned subsidiary protection, in article 39-46. The bill also provides for the right to accommodation in the Asylum Centre, the right to health care in accordance with regulations governing the health protection of foreigners, the right to free basic and secondary education, the right to social assistance, the protection of intellectual property, free access to courts, legal aid, the release from cautio iudicatum salt (although it is put here in Latin, we do not all have to know Latin, I do not see why you have inserted the Latin word, that is, in principle, how Mr Peric helped me, translated, means there is no obligation to give bail, although it is not logical at all that in the midst of the Serbian language, where there are much nicer words, and when everything is written Cyrillic, you have put the Latin word) and the right to freedom of religion, the right to work and to exercise, the right of permanent residence and freedom of movement, the right to move, the right to move forward to social and to freedom of life, to freedom of society, to freedom of education, to freedom of education, freedom of education and freedom of society, and freedom of education, the law. ''If we read all of this, and when we look at the situation in which Serbian citizens live, then 90% of the time Serbian citizens would apply for asylum. If we start with that and if we're honest with that free education, I'd just like it to be listed, Mr. Minister, where it's an example of free schooling. Insurance, social security, and my predecessor, Momir Markovic, also talked about social security, health insurance. We know it's all paid and it's hard to get the meds at all. What are people who have small salaries, small pensions, how will they survive? Not to speak even more difficult than our refugees from Republika Srpska, Croatia, Kosovo and Metohija, in which they only live on conditions. What you are now promising here, what you have now written here, this is now really nicely packaged, perhaps according to some European Union's address, to join the European Union and to see that Serbia is a country that respects all these rights. Here, I will take an example that happened three years ago, and it will also be related to the problem of asylum and readmission that took place in New Belgrade, and that is the president of the legendary Mr. Ozegovic, whom Mrs. Vjerica has made quite clear and has shown how he is used. He's the man who puts pressure on witnesses. In the book 99, Dr Vojislav Seselj, page 213, the testimony of Mr. Slavko Cuturić, who was certified in court, to know what you were talking about, I say what the pressure was and whether it was the right to work for Mr. Cuturić, who is a colonel, a military face, a professor at the Academy, brought down his kiosk. He pressured him, on his two sons, and specifically Mr. Ozegovic pressured the same witness and promised him, if he testified against Dr. Vojislav Seselj, that he would return his kiosk. You as police minister know what's going on in New Belgrade because yours, I say on condition of yours, the forces of the intervention brigade come and intervene. They've got these companies that are tearing down the kiosks with Ozegovic. Mr. Jocic, I'm going to introduce you to an even more drastic example from New Belgrade. Although I think that this has already really gone too far, when the president of the municipality carries out such self-government, and it's like he's a citizen service and he's one of the best presidents of the municipality, I guess that's what he thinks. I'll tell you, maybe he's up high, and he was some star basketball player, I don't remember him, but they say he played basketball. I'll give you an example that is very important and you'll see how the reading and asylum will reflect. Three years ago, the first attempt at readmission was by the DS, specifically I will tell Mr. Ozegovic, Mr. Bobic, the late Mayor Bogdanovic and Mrs. Hrustanovic. They brought the idea and came up with the idea that all the refugees from Esen, I'm talking specifically about the Esen case, these are the meanings of refugees of the predominantly Roma population who were in Germany and who were supposed to return and settle in the New Belgrade block 71, where the water source is from both Belgrade and Zemun, and New Belgrade with water. But now you'll see how they imagined it, like DS and Democrats, to do a readmission and asylum. They suggested and even did a project to put one behind the building in the block, to say, ghetto or one gulag, which will be fenced with wire with reflectors, with metal containers, under the power lines, but will be strictly determined by purpose. You're laughing, but I'm telling you the truth, you can check it out. That was three years ago, you saw in all the media, printed, on TV, it was even in "The Imprint of the Week," where Mrs. Sonja Biserko took protection of people who needed to move in, so they got themselves into collage. The pearl defends these, and Bobic and Ozegovic want to put them in metal containers. Then Bobic said they'd settle them, fence them, fence them with wire, barbed wire, they'd have modern containers under the power lines. Here, come to New Belgrade, I'll take you where it is. Otherwise, Mr. Ponosh lived in that building quite recently, so he's probably moved to Santa's. That's the address. Here, my colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic can also confirm to you because we were on site, but it is crucial how DS imagined what these people would do to come from Esen. They immediately intended that they could only collect secondary raw materials and put off secondary raw materials in that camp. It was this story that would be a stumbling block around this asylum and readmission. That's why I've cited all these examples of how it's done. Here, I told Mr. Ozegovic's example of how he's doing it, and it's all good in here, and that's why I said 90% of Serbian citizens would love to sign up if this is true, so we'll all be in asylum, because then they'll live better than the reality. I'll be cultural, so I'll say this is just a mild lie that they write here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11342	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11343	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, here we go with the amendments that we wanted to make a technical correction and we got the answer under the indig, that it was settled by another law, that the minister of the same ministry didn't exist, the minister was above that. Of course, we understand. It's not the first time we've intervened to make such a change. We've been doing this for years. Since the law has been passed on him to explain the government's refusal to call, but we remain resilient in that intention to realize that we are and when we first encounter anomalies as seriously as we are later when we try to change it almost in an impossible way. It remains a discretionary right for you to adopt it or not, and the real danger that makes us so persistent is that we think that the minister can sometimes do something uncritical, in the absence of suggestions from his associates. Here's the freshest example for you is Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who in just three memos he sent to the Medical Chamber solved two important problems, otherwise it is clear by the law of a regulated and defined right that it can affect the amount of fees for giving licenses and conditions and criteria for creating a portable system of points in which someone's validity in the course of schooling or training will be fought until the time he was licensed. Such three different memos in three months, of which each other are harshly denied, are evidence of what a minister can do when he can sign himself, what it means when there is no absence of control of another species. We wanted to avoid it in this article that defines two things. Apparently, they are separate and would require even two ministries. One would be the Ministry of Education and Education, so Loncar, and one would be Minister Ljajic, who should have some rappers from the social policy sphere. On the side that only by this instruction, by means of a sublegal act, will it be resolved what level of social protection, what rights asylum seekers can exercise, persons who receive asylum, I suppose, asylum seekers in unsolved status. But we think that this one regulation that would solve some kind of teamwork would contribute more to that. This same article also mentions the right to education. This law is not regulated, contrary to the practice of some other countries where it says that it takes a period during which those persons who have come, so people who have received asylum and members of their families, especially their families, the time they have to spend in asylum to learn language, because it is simply impossible to promise some education without learning the language of the country in which they have received asylum. You know, our language isn't that simple and we don't have the opportunity to provide primary and secondary education, because then it's long-term asylum, it takes citizenship, it's something long, which ends in primary and secondary education with us. So there must be luft. That would probably mean a sublegal act that the minister would bring, but it certainly can't be the minister of social policy, it would have to be the minister of education. Why is it accidentally placed in one member, of course, I don't know, but it's as it's written and that's why it's asking for intervention. Of course, everything could not have been included in the discussion in principle. We said then, and I was talking in the principle debate about a famous, famous member who rules out the possibility of a crime of a non-political nature, should say criminal act, etc., no hard crime. Then I suggested it, it's something the board did and did it in a freak way. What he's saying in support, repeatedly repeated, may seem to you both stereotyped and viewers of the repeated story of how somehow the law didn't simply define everything it was meant to define, because that's how we look at the truth for the will, so the first time you define something, like someone, of that person seeking asylum, you define it as a refugee term. Indeed, the fastest defined term of asylum is here, and we cannot agree that the refugee is an asylumist. You ruled that out in item 3, but later on, members up to 40, 54, and yet, you repeat, refugees are constantly being put into play. Everything's been cut off by law since 2002, and then refugees are kind of uninterrupted in the game. The most complete definition of asylum seekers was given in connection with refugees, which, of course, was avoided to make it a foreign citizen. What were these political reasons, personal reasons, logical, illogical? I could understand any of these reasons, but already defining basic expressions, so then the person seeking asylum is a defined person who won't get it, but who's looking for it. Why is that well defined? So it turns out they're just evasive persons. Of course, none of us want to believe that this is the case, but because it has already been stated that there is some reasonable doubt that a person will be treated justly, that there is justifiable fear. Justified fear must have some kind of duration, repeated function, etc., it's all put into this. Justified and founded fear of what? Well, out of law enforcement, misapplication of law, avoidance of obligations, selective law enforcement, as other legal models define. Then you'd have instructions for yet undefined officers of the MUP, who are probably border police and trained, I believe, but maybe one of those officials has to be found in Bia. And how can you be sure that someone wasn't covered up through someone who had some political affair, transferred to translate one terrorist and the other, so it's easier from Serbia to go to Kosovo, and it's true miracles. How do we know we don't have any Al-Qaeda, some kind of evil of that kind? There's got to be a Beja officer. Why don't we explicitly put them on? The people that are going to be, it's possible there's going to be, but it's going to be a scarce explanation, some taxation, like for the head of the local community, but this is more serious, a few of the criteria. On the contrary, a very highly-ranked commission of eight members or seven, as far as I don't know, in this second-degree body. So there's a failure of the whole law, and maybe it's too much to just pull it back, to make nice out of experience, discussion and committees of the law change. You wouldn't be coughing for Europe, you wouldn't have Europe, you know, and many European countries have more rigid laws. They have no particular will or need, neither Serbia is so economically rich nor powerful that it provides anyone who wishes, even a non-critically large filtration power to give. We have information in the law that it's 80-100 people a year. We don't know how much it's going to be if the law is so inaccurate, if we MPs are criticising it here, if someone follows it precisely and sees how many holes there are in the law and how many indeterminations there might be an idea for someone, God knows who would be interested in not particularly rich Serbia to come, so that they can gain some kind of security, and then from there, for example, God forbid some terrorists go, very easily to pass a vulnerable barrier towards Kosovo, the separatists support themselves. Who knows what can wait for us in the future. We have a very bad law. We've had more than ever excused ourselves now to prevent anyone from entering the country through the porno membranes of the law, and to get away from it, after asylum. He doesn't care when he leaves asylum for losing your bail. If he finds channels and pillows, goes to Kosovo, ends of the story, what does he care what he loses, he comes with a goal. It is one theoretical assumption, which not only has to be theoretical, but it is because of the probability and circumstances in which we are in the law we really should have looked at from all aspects, not from the aspects of a situationed European country, in which no one wants to come, knowing that it is facing restrictive measures. We are a country which, apparently, has no particularly restrictive measures, which almost equalised the position of its citizens, its refugees, its exiled persons with persons who know for what reason, and surely the economic reasons are excluded, it is clear to everyone, seeking asylum in our country. So I think, like the other radicals who have submitted the amendments, that maybe we haven't had the happiest solution in this law, which as a concept, as an idea, is probably an ecay. But the details contained in it are not the best solutions that could have been done, especially when it comes to constructive discussions, where no one really has any intention of turning their country into some kind of asylum territory where anyone will come, or being beyond other democratic countries that follow extremely restrictively that no one can cross the border. We know what it's like to be in totalitarian regimes, it's clear to all of us, we've had enough years, and we have a sense of hearing for people who have had a bad time in totalitarian regimes, we know that they need to be given asylum and help. But at the same time, there should be no non-selective state, no criteria, extremely pornic, and then catch mistakes, hunt in walking, deportation, then it's a bigger problem, and it can be a problem of every kind. It's about the meaning of all our discussions. Now that you understand, it's up to you, and I think it would be the most logical thing for that law to be withdrawn and done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11344	Thank you, fellow Poscurica. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Professor Mileta Poscurica gave an explanation relating to this matter governed by Article 41(2), and he also explained in detail how this should look and how it might improve the text if the competent authority, or the Government accepts this amendment. I must ask again the question of the Minister of the Interior, since it is operational, to take all necessary measures regarding this persecution of our citizens and their harassment in the Republic of Serbia. We're not going to give you examples now, we're not going to mention names, but there's something going on that's absolutely illegal and it's not appropriate to keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11346	Thank you. The 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 44 has been submitted by Milorad Buh and it refers to an extension of protection enjoyed by refugees. He says to the people who's been admitted; this is a real refugee in the accommodations. First, this was supposed to be dealt with by the refugee law. I don't know why this part was inserted here into the asylum law. "To those who have been granted the right to shelter or subsidiary protection, accommodation is provided according to the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, and for the longest year since the final solution which has recognised its status." Mr. Buha has suggested - at least five years. Believe that Milorad Buha is the most competent in the matter of refugees, among other things, he is the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile. He daily faces the problem of refugees from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, and of course he knows the problems of refugees from Kosovo and Metohija, which we call exiled persons. If you look here at article 54 — the termination of asylum and the termination of the right to shelter, not to read everything to you, you can see that an asylum lawyer can enjoy these rights unlimitedly. I agree with that, regardless of the difficult economic situation in which our country is located, but if we give a stranger the right to enjoy such protection, why don't we give these martyrs and sufferers, who had to escape to Serbia, the right to enjoy this protection for at least five years, especially when we have in mind how difficult the situation is in collective accommodations, how difficult they live and so difficult conditions we want to limit them to one year. What are you doing after one year? Do you want to take them back to Croatia to Mesic? I think you're quite clear on who Mesic is. Mesic is a follower of the politics of Ante Pavelic and Tudjman, and he never hid it. Tadic's apology to him is his problem, but he made it clear and made it clear -- the Ustashas won twice, the first time they approached the axle forces, which is a fact, the second time they approached the winning side and completely abolized for millions of victims over the Serb people. Do you want to return them to Mesic, who says and is recommended for the high representative in BiH. What, to do what they did in '95. the years in Blesh and Storm, the Serbs left to banish and complete the work? Or maybe you think you'll return these exiles to Kosovo and Metohija. And that's where Hashim Thaci was elected. At least, Minister, you know that Hashim Thaci is the man who killed several police officers, known as the Snake, that he's a hard criminal, and that, by all normal laws, he would have to answer in all states. On the one hand, Mesic, on the other side of Thaci, reminds a little of the 41st year. Serbia was completely surrounded, with this number, and in 1941 Serbia was full of refugees, all repeated. You want to limit this right to one year. What are you going to do after that one year? Where are you going? Do you have a record of how many people have been among them for over 65, 70, 80 years? What are you going to do with that? You have to make sure that refugees are at the most, 99%, Serbs who had to flee from the pogroms. There's no dilemma. I know it's hard for the state, that we're in a difficult economic situation, but we have to. Just take a piece of the salary received by the directors and board presidents, you'll get a chance to see when we get the full documentation of what the amount of funds is. Just reroute some of these funds to this and you'll realize how necessary it is for these things to be defined differently. Why are you putting Serbs in an unequal position with the citizens of some other states who have come here and are seeking asylum? I urge you to reconsider and to accept this amendment by the end of the debate on this law, because I think it is a minimum of what the state of Serbia can do when it comes to refugees and exiled persons, who had to come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11348	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11349	Just one explanation. This law does not apply to refugees who have acquired this property under the Refugees Act. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: What are these other refugees? ) Second, they are people who do not have our citizenship or who are not citizens of this country, and for certain reasons they are located in our territory. After all, they can all seek our citizenship under the Law of Citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11350	Thank you. Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll accept in advance that I'm in no position to understand certain things. There are two reasons. There's one reason she can be inside me, that I just don't understand. Another reason could be in the explanation. I would ask the minister, since I'm sure he can't repeat what he said, but to take a stenogram to read, to be absolutely sure what refugees are, to whom, please, the ministers refer this. It says here - a real refugee at the accommodations. You say they're not refugees. Who are these people? Who have our citizenship! How if he has our citizenship, then he's not a refugee. Some things don't logically connect. Here is the problem with this law that many things are undefined. That's the problem. You're still making a mistake by getting in a situation somewhere, whether you're a musician or not, I am. What about the musician? No, I didn't. That's the problem here. Oh, I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11352	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11353	These refugees you're talking about can seek citizenship under the Law of Citizenship that we passed two months ago, there's no problem here. So they can get citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. Let's not break one law we passed two months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11354	Thank you. Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11355	Mr. Minister, this is better. I have to admit, what is, is. Compared to the previous explanation – they can seek citizenship, they can, it is not disputed. They can get it. But there are a number of people among them who will not seek citizenship. We've already pointed out the reasons why they can't. First, you know how many people were arrested there, how many were killed, how many were beaten, how many of them have no money to go to the former Republic of Serbia, and I can't even say Croatia. Do you know what that number is? He can't win citizenship. You're punishing him now. And even if he gets citizenship, the state will have to take care of those people. Mr. Minister, I think you should accept this amendment, this burden that Serbia will have that will not create a problem, because we are obliged to help Serbs who had to escape to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11356	By amendment, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it would be very important for us that you accept this amendment that Mr. Milorad Buha has submitted to a member of this 44th law. I have a well-intentioned suggestion. You don't have to accept this amendment, you don't have to accept any amendments to the SRS that we've filed on this bill, maybe a better solution for you would be, therefore, a well-meaning suggestion, to withdraw this law from the procedure. You've received a very good expertise fund and what the people of the SRS feel about the people to whom this law should apply. We won't mind you installing all of our suggestions and objections, and what's contained in our amendments, and going to the National Assembly with a whole new bill. But, in order not to argue on certain matters, I will try to further convince you that this amendment should have been accepted. I will read, because of the large number of persons this member of the law will apply to or could apply, in order to make it clearer to them, not because of you, Article 44. Proposal for this law: "To those who have been granted the right to shelter or subsidiary protection, accommodation is provided according to the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, and for the longest year since the final solution which has recognised its status. ''The People's MP Milorad Buha does not pollute with you on refugee status, but he demands, through this amendment, that this term 'the longest year' be changed in 'at least five years'. But in the light of his amendment, he has submitted purely practical reasons why this amendment should be accepted. We in the SRS fully share that opinion. There are a large number of people in Serbia today, both with one or the other, with the status of refuge or subsidiary protection, located here, who have been expelled from their hearths, from their own country. Since you said that they would be able to exercise certain rights for up to a year, we only propose, or demand that it be up to five years. You said in the reasoning of Article 4 that the Government does not accept the amendment since the reasons for the amendment clearly show that its aim is to regulate the situation of refugees within the meaning of the Refugees Act. Now let's see in Article 4 paragraph 2. It's a bill of law. In Article 4(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill states: 'If a foreigner in Article 1 does not meet the conditions for obtaining a right to shelter, it will be under official duty to consider whether there are conditions for granting subsidiary protection. ''If the official authority is to keep an eye on the official duties and finds that the persons referred to in Article 44 are, then there is no valid reason or argument on your part that would not allow this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11358	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11359	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you interpret article 44, you will see that shelter or subsidiary protection and accommodation is given to a particular person for the longest year. Since when? So, from the final solution he was granted status. What about those faces that came in 1991? What was the state waiting to spend so many years solving refugee status, or exile? When it comes to accommodation, what happens now if you bring a solution to a person, a final solution to his status, but in a year. A year has passed and this person for a number of justified reasons does not want to and cannot return to his country, his republic, the Republic of the Serbian Krajina. Then what about hundreds of thousands of Serbs? Will you make hundreds of thousands of solutions again to extend their deadline? Or are you going to change the law? Gentlemen, this is a really reckless place. Here no one takes care of a million Serbs who have been expelled from their country of Republika Srpska and other territories. When you look, you solve here in the short, daily, in a year certain problems and admit the right to a particular person seeking refuge, i.e. A refugee to be granted that status, but give it only a year and a final solution. This law takes effect within a month or from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's been a year, that face is found in a hopeless situation. It's not just one thing. I'm telling you, it's hundreds of thousands of people. This is reckless, this is not good, this is not well-meaning for the Serbian people. In parallel law, you won't find anything like this. This is where it has to be solved in the long run. When it comes to accommodations, ladies and gentlemen, we've had our chance lately to see the police cast out and the state authorities throw refugees out of the accommodations they were assigned to, to throw people out of their apartments and those sheds where they were temporarily placed. You now see how the Government of the Republic of Serbia is human to its people and how it takes care of their interests and throws them out on the street. With this law, he's trying to show them the flat-rate -- we're going to give them guarantees and welfare, we're going to give them education, we're going to give them housing. What accommodation? You need to go after Serbia a little bit, go around the regions. In the regions you will encounter such drastic and catastrophic accommodations where this people live. What's the government doing? The government is doing nothing to allow these people and those citizens at least necessary accommodation, necessary and necessary living costs. What our MPs brought out during the debate, you're not going to bring them back to Mesic after a year? Do you want them to run them back in there and kill them again, burn what's left of them? Serbia cannot do that to its citizens, i.e. to the Serbs to be treated. The government must take certain measures. It's the government's fault this situation took place. What has the government done on the basis of reciprocity, what has it done to take certain measures for Croatia, above all, to return the property to our citizens? We say we're going to join the standards of Europe. How are we going? Why does the government not require Croatia to be exiled from their territories and RSK to return? Why doesn't the government shut up, why doesn't the government take measures to compensate the Serbs? You're not taking any action. He should take appropriate measures. Let him answer, let him not think that Serbia is silent, let Mesic know that Serbs return to RSK, that they will rule RSK and not play Mesic or anyone else. That's why I'm asking the Serbian government to take certain measures. He has the right, according to international contracts, to protect Serbs, their property, their lives and their freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11360	The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Security Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as an MP of the SRS, I must express my indignation over what is happening today, in Arangelovdan, in the country of Serbia, at the conduct of Kristina Dahl and investigator of The Hague Court. I'm asking you to do everything within your jurisdiction to stop this, because today someone may have moved the glory, someone's children are screaming. When Serbian police intervene, Serbian citizens may not be wrong, they are not sorry, come on they are ours, something happens one way or the other, but when a stranger is doing, when a stranger with black hats enters Serbian houses, whether they are American seals, members of the SAS, Israeli Mossad or not, it is within the jurisdiction of the Serbian MUP, in your jurisdiction to determine that. You don't need to be indolent, and you shouldn't let the voice of the SRS be the voice of the cryer in the desert. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. The proposal for an asylum law and a basic motivation to submit this amendment is an extension from three to eight days. So in Article 47, point 1(2), the word "three" is replaced by the word "eight." In the bill, we have an explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions, and it is said: "Article 47. The draft law lays down specific obligations for asylum seekers: to comply with the restrictions on movement set out in Article 52. The bill, if determined, that any changes to the address are notified by written means to the Asylum Office within three days of the change of address, to observe the house order, if they are located at the Asylum Centre, to respond to the call and cooperate with the Asylum Office and other competent authorities... "Article 47. The bill, ''The person seeking asylum must: 1) adhere to the restriction of movement under Article 52 of this Act, if they are determined; 2) to notify each change of address in writing to the Asylum Office within three days of the change of address. '" Mr. Minister, I ask you, why so restrictively? Life is unpredictable. It's not all good in life. Suddenly and ugly things happen. Let's just say a man gets sick, so he can't respect that deadline. That deadline can be small, and it can be significantly changed. I think it's appropriate that the person seeking asylum should be given the appropriate time limit to inform the Asylum Office about the change of address. We Serbian radicals believe that this deadline is very short, which may result in the loss of certain rights and even the right to asylum, because there may be more significant consequences for the person who is seeking this. Why so much autism from you, why the government's opinion that the SRS amendment is rejected, and when we read the opinion of the government that is being rejected, we Serbian radicals and citizens of Serbia do not know which government, which part of the government, is the horns in the bag, whether it is the government of Vojislav Kostunica, whether it is the government of Boris Tadic, whether it is the Government of Mladjan Dinkic. Mr. Minister, this is a bad bill. You even said in one of your shows earlier that it was not appropriate to the spirit of the law. You can't do that. The law must be based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it must be concise and clear, professionally written, not the spirit of the law. The relationship between spirit and matter is that matter is rotten, destructive, and the spirit is indestructible and immortal, such as the spirit of our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj and the ideology represented by him and the SRS. Mr. Minister, a little less autism, have more hearing about what they are today and what the SRS MPs will do at the end of the debate tomorrow. We don't do it for us personally, we do it for the citizens, and in this sphere because of the persons who overly need to amend this law. So, please, once again, as an SRS MP, it would be best to withdraw this poor bill, unspoken, which would say infantile, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11362	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not agree that the minister should pray, we have nothing to ask the minister, but we propose. The SRS has submitted its amendments with an explanation, because it is right. The deadline laid down in Article 47 applies not only to asylum seekers but also to refugees. What are your martyrs doing running to the office in three days, informing the office about a change of address? This is not necessary, and it is justified to allow these people and those individuals who address to be able to have an appropriate time limit. This is a three-day deadline. What happens if the person doesn't report a change of address within three days? So he loses refugee status, loses asylum status. Why so short? The deadline of eight days is appropriate, that the one from Sudotica, or from Dimitrovgrad, or from Vranja and Leskovci may arrive in time to notify the Office that he changed the address, from Leskovec went to Vranje or from Užica went to Nova Varoš or Chaetin. I don't see any reason to think about whether or not the Minister will accept any amendment. It is important that we inform the public that this deadline is exceeded and that the person within three days is unable to perform this action and request which is required of him. So, the deadline is too inclusive. If you give a three-day deadline, he changed the address from one place to another. That man lost everything. Missed the deadline. Lost his right. Therefore, we do not see any reason to pray, but we are asking and proposing that this amendment be adopted. The MPs of the SRS, who have studied in detail the matter that regulates asylum and sanctuary, believe that this amendment is fully justified, with the reasons given by the MPs and that in any case, there is room for acceptance. Whoever doesn't accept it means simply he thinks it's what he thinks it's gonna be, no matter how it's gonna be applied. The government must make sure that the regulation to be passed is effective, whether it will be in the role of citizens and whether it will have citizens harm or benefit. If this law, without the adoption of the amendment, is adopted, it must soon suffer or amend or abolish and supplement, in such a way as to obtain one real law, and as the MPs of the SRS have said, you have a good basis, a substance regulated by these amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11364	A National MP named Pai Momchilov submitted to the 57th Amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee suggest that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all day long I've been trying to understand which troubles you, Minister, have made you propose to us such a bad and so legally unregulated proposal of this law. Indeed, here are examples of members 47 and 57. Of course, I will explain one and the other amendments, although it has already been said about Amendment 47, but just to compare them, if anyone can explain why these amendments are not accepted and what one means, and what another explanation, then I will say on behalf of the SRS that we joked that our amendments are not valid. It's just amazing that you, in Article 47, Mr. Minister, are talking about the special obligations of asylum seekers, so he says, the person seeking asylum is required, among other things, to notify the Asylum Office in writing of any change of address within three days of the change of address. We here suggest that these three days change with an eight-day deadline, because, as Mr Dragan Colic's explanation stands, the person seeking asylum should be given an appropriate deadline to inform the Asylum Office about the change of address. The SRS, it also says in its explanation, believes that this deadline is very short, this three-day proposal, which may result in the loss of certain rights and even the loss of the right to asylum, because by missing a three-day deadline, that man is missing practically all deadlines and losing everything. I don't know if you understand at all that asylum seekers are always in trouble, faces that can come with a variety of problems. In addition to those problems of persecution in their own country for political reasons, religious, national, racial, etc., those persons can come from that country of their origin without money, and we spoke in the course of the discussion of language ignorance laws, etc. And now you, such a person, who has no time at all to cope with the situation in which he has found himself, determine to inform you within three days of a new address when seeking asylum. Maybe that face doesn't have the money, so it's headed from Belgrade to Nis at the rate, and in three days it can't get there to notify the office about the change of address. On the other hand, we have a member of the 57th and an amendment of colleagues Paia Momchilova, where we also have a deadline, here we have a distance from strangers. Now listen, please, illogicality. ''The deadline in which a stranger is required to leave the Republic of Serbia cannot be longer than 15 days from the date of the final decision of Article 1. '"We here propose a shorter deadline than 15 days. Because you, in Section 1, which you say, 'A stranger whose asylum application has been rejected or rejected, or decided to suspend the procedure, which does not reside on a second basis in the country, is obliged to leave the Republic of Serbia within the time limit set by that decision. ''If, therefore, the competent authority finds that someone cannot get asylum in Serbia, then the only reason it cannot be determined is that this person is unwanted in Serbia, that this person may be an agent in Serbia, that this person has come from who knows what to do in Serbia, and has tried to hide behind the status of asylum seekers. You allow such a person to stay in Serbia for 15 days yet, and you do not accept our amendment to cut that deadline to three days. So, I purposely executed a partnership between members 47 and 57, precisely because these two members show you have no idea what your law says, that you have no idea what the translators of this text in the law wrote to you. Because if that were not the case, then you would surely accept at least these two amendments and the deadlines of Articles 47 and 57 the way the SRS proposes, because there is no single valid reason not to accept it. I am convinced that even fellow MPs, who may not have been able to read this law, now that they hear this argument, I am convinced that they must accept and understand that it is inappropriate for these amendments to be not accepted. And why don't you accept those amendments? First of all, to Mr Dragan Colic's 47th Amendment: "The government does not accept the amendment since the three-day term of the bill is appropriate, given that the accommodation of an asylum seekers outside the Asylum Centre, during the course of the asylum procedure, is an exception to the rule that he is provided with accommodation at the Asylum Centre for the time being, while the change of such approved addresses is a new exception. '"This really looks like that Chedino system of values, value system, system values, etc. Nobody understands what you wrote here alive. Here, you don't understand either. Imagine, so I have to tell you this again, Minister, because you didn't listen to me. The government does not accept the amendment since the three-day deadline set out in the proposal is appropriate, given that the accommodation of asylum seekers outside the Asylum Centre, during the course of the asylum procedure, is an exception to the rules, that during that time he is provided with accommodation in the asylum centre, while the change of such approved address is a new exemption exception. Who understands this, if any of the MPs of the ruling coalition come forward to explain... This is really a question for the Millionaire quiz. "The presence of a person," he said, "which seeks asylum during the course of the procedure, is absolutely necessary to examine the conditions for obtaining protection and end the procedure. In the event that there is a reasonable reason for missing the deadline, an asylum seekers shall be made available a request for recovery in the previous situation. '"As I recall, you have challenged our amendment that allows for a request for a return to the former state. Now I don't understand what request you were referring to, if you refused our amendment there, where we predicted that the Supreme Court would decide upon that request. You've got it all wrong, Mr. Jocic, absolutely everything. Why don't you accept the amendment to Article 57? ''The government does not accept this amendment since Article 57 is Article 2. The bill stipulates that "the deadline cannot be longer than 15 days" (we know it, but we ask it not to be so), which means that in the case stated in the explanation of the amendment, a deadline of less than 15 days can be set. '"You didn't read our amendment and you didn't read the explanation. That's not what it says at all. You say, "It's not celibate, and it's not realistic that all foreigners can voluntarily leave the country within three days. "Not all foreigners, but those who do not receive the right to asylum. We don't need them, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11366	Mrs. Radeta, do you want to continue or continue tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11367	No, I don't want to continue. I'll continue for the remaining five minutes tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-21-0.u11368	Since the transmission has been cut, I thank you for today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
