ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12884	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the third working day of this session and since there is a session of the Committee on Defence and Security, which discusses amendments and laws that are on the agenda, we are moving the beginning of the session in 11 hours, because the Minister is on the Committee, and it is very important for this debate to have the Minister in the O.R. We'll start at 11.00 and then we'll determine the quorum. [[After break – 11.05]] We continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that we have received information that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Meho Omerovic and Munir Poturak. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Fundamentals of the Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (resuming in principle) You have received the resignation of Ivan Zivadinović as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case under Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this National MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to MP Ivan Zivadinovic, selected from the election list G17 plus - Mladjan Dinkic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We're continuing our work on the agenda. The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, DSS-NS, and then the word has a National MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12886	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the international position of the Republic of Serbia is under the strong influence of general movements in the region and, of course, under the strong influence of European and world policy. All countries in our region actually have the same tendency to adopt the same values and standards, some civilization values, and at the same time have the same desire for integration, so there is a very small possibility of a direct threat or aggression on Serbia. Of course, here I exempt the question of Kosovo and Metohija. The definition of a rational foreign policy and membership in international security structures, and here above all I think of the Partnership for Peace programme, also increases security in Serbia. In line with this country's orientation, a new security policy is being built, on which Serbia becomes a very active factor in the world's security situation, becomes part of modern Europe and becomes an equal and reliable partner in international relations. But not everything is so pink; regardless of the positive trends in strengthening Serbia's security, we are still facing possible challenges, security threats. Of course, there should be attention here to the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, where for years there has been a hotspot that has long been no longer just a hotspot and where violence against Serbs and non-Albanian populations has long existed. It is the most serious threat not only to Serbia's security but also to the security of our entire region and Southeast Europe. Of course there are also non-wary challenges and security threats, such as terrorism, nationalist extremism, religious extremism, such as major disasters, natural disasters, or corruption and organised crime and many other things, but it's not just in Serbia, it's a situation in the whole world, and you know it best. Today in Serbia, so-called There are five services to the intelligence community. They're not all equally organized or equally large, they're not all the same. Of course, the biggest and most organized is BIA, which is also the most important thing in the country. The military also has a security-information agency. The military has two agencies: the Military Security Agency, which deals with counterintelligence and the Military Intelligence Agency, which deals with data collection of armies from other countries. Under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are two less-known services and these are the Research and Documentation Service, which is very small and with limited work, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Security, which is even smaller and its work is only the protection of embassies and diplomatic personnel. But based on what I've said, the fact is, and the people who are actively dealing with this matter are saying that there really is no common body that would coordinate the work of all these different security agencies and services and that would solve the inevitable disputes concerning jurisdiction. I have to remind you of one case that may have been best known to the public, although a lot of affairs existed on this subject, which is an affair that occurred when the Kumanov Agreement was signed in 1999 when one of the security agencies stole from another classified documentation and material, of course, was ours. When it comes to legal regulation, there are many differences here, because the work of military services is regulated by the former Military Act, and we were given a chance to see the new law before yesterday, while the work of BIA is regulated by the 2002 law, which is known as the Security Agency Act. Since the very beginning, since 2002, this law has shown a series of shortcomings and has been a very big problem working on it. Today, we have before us this law on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, and it is enough that it is before us, because so far this matter has been governed by one regulation and this is quite unpopular in one serious state, so that the bill that is before us is very good and that this regulation is abolished. What is regulated by this law? This law regulates the fundamentals of the security-intelligence system in Serbia, directing and harmonising the work of security services in Serbia and overseeing their work. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Articles 97, paragraphs 4 and 16, which have been established that the Republic of Serbia in its territory and for its citizens provides and regulates security. The law treats the security-intelligence system as a set of state authorities doing a number of jobs in order to preserve and improve security. The law ensures efficiency in carrying out security tasks, with respect for the principles of rule of law and the right to individual freedom. It ensures the neutrality of the security service in terms of political, interesting and ideological neutrality and, which seems most important to me and always under public eye, regulates democratic and civilian control of the work of security services. One of the better solutions offered by the law is the establishment of a national security council. The Council is a body that should have been established much earlier, given that it happens in countries in transition, and we are one of these, there is a possibility (very often not only the possibility, but also the reality) that security services are simply racing which will have better and better quality information and more work to prove that it is a second structure worse and worse than they are doing in the interest of the state. The Council takes care of national security, directs and coordinates the work of the Security Service, takes care of the application of regulations and standards for the protection of personal data and other human rights regulations. The Council is considering issues of defence, internal affairs, the work of security services, internal and external co-operation of those services, as well as issues from the local self-government section concerning national security. What does all this really mean? With these powers, in fact, the council integrates and coordinates the security system. When you have more security services in one place and you put them in one place, then you can see what security capacity the state has, what information, and how credible the state has, and you can coordinate the work of these services. The law also states that all state authorities are obliged to co-operate with this council. Another side of the bill's proposal is the establishment of a coordination bureau, which is actually an extremely operational body. There is always this problem in law that there are many advisory bodies, and few bodies dealing with operational affairs on the ground. This law provides for the establishment of a co-ordination bureau. Now I would refer to one part of the law that's most under the public eye, and as far as monitoring these services is concerned, actually, civil control, as we like to say. It's a very sensitive part, a very sensitive matter, because part of the public is still in fear when it comes to security services. I would not comment on whether this fear is real or not and from which time it comes and how it has developed, but it is evident that many people and the importance of the security service have a relationship as if before them is some structure of a state that threatens their human rights and freedoms. What kind of procedures and supervision does this law provide? First of all, congregation oversight. It is foreseen to be carried out through the Committee responsible for these issues, at the moment of the Security Committee. I'll tax-count what the Committee monitors: the constitutionality and legality of the work of the service; the compliance of the service with the national security strategy, with the defence strategy and security policy of Serbia; then, monitors the respect of political, ideological and interest neutrality in the work of the security service; the legality of the application of specific procedures and measures for secret collection of data; the legality of the spending of the budget of these services; it examines and adopts labour reports; it examines drafts laws, general acts and other regulations in the jurisdiction of the Security Service; it examines proposals, petitions and representations of citizens referred to the National Assembly in relation to the area of security, proposes measures for their solution and reports to the Assembly on its conclusions and proposals. Another way to control and monitor is the status that this law provides for the Director of the Security Service. The Director shall always respond to the invitation to attend the meetings of the committee responsible, to submit, at least once during the regular session of the Assembly, a report on his work, on the work of the service, and, if so, to the committee to request him, and, besides that, to submit the report once and for all annually. As I have pointed out, it is another aspect of Parliament's control. However, the law stipulates that there is one group of data that is not available to the members of the Committee. These are data, although it may be thought that it is some incredibly secret and important data, relating to actions that are under way, in the way of applying specific procedures and measures; then, the secret information and information they have received from other state services; data obtained by exchange with foreign services and international organisations; methods of obtaining data; data on members of the service with a hidden identity and information on the identity of current and former service associates. Although members of the Committee are obliged to protect and maintain the confidentiality of the information they receive during the Committee's work, even when they become former members, some of the former members have found a way to place all this information in the public, because immediately after their engagement in parliament and on this committee, they have started writing felttones, books, that the information they have received has been misused in political accounts or manipulated by this information. As a result, it may be good that not all data can be made available to the members of the Committee. There is one part of this law that I really thought was extremely well done last night, which is that, in fact, there should be no review of the members of the Committee, but in a conversation with one of the opposition colleagues, I realized that this way of not checking the members of the Committee might be some kind of relic of the past and that we are afraid that anything that affects human rights and freedoms can be compromised by not checking. Why aren't only these board members checking themselves out? Why do I say that? Because it's quite possible and it's happened, not only in our country, but I know of several affairs and in other countries in the world, that some members of these committees were actually people who worked for other secret services or worked for some tycoons, so the information, for example, about the arrest came out of those committees and were served in all the media before any other state structures should have known. When it comes to public surveillance of security services, security services should inform the public through the authorities to which the reports are delivered. There is a possibility, under this law, that some security events and occurrences may also directly address the public and provide information on this. While the bill was still in the public debate, there were various comments; I read various stories, which were even completely deluded, from some of the people who were in the security services, who publicly said they hadn't read the proposal, but already had a bad opinion about it. For that and for the truth's sake, I must mention two things in favor of this law. One is that the head of the OSCE mission in Serbia Hans Ola Urstad praised the bill and said its organisation, meaning the OSCE, is behind the law. The second is that in a recent report, the European Commission has indeed said, although I hear disdain, that Serbia has made progress in civilian security control. Well, sometimes someone on the side thinks a lot better about us, people we don't think are very fond of us, than some of our people who, unfortunately, have been in this country or in these services. That is why the DSS-NS parliamentary group will vote for this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12887	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, followed by MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would not say that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure; under Rule 225 and Article 226, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly to inform us of the next event. In fact, between 10:00 and 11:00 a.m. in the SPS parliamentary group, more calls were received, informing us that on the road from Novi Sad to Belgrade a column of NATO vehicles numbering about 20 vehicles, with clear features of KFOR. Since we could not hear such information anywhere, the reason for such a passage through the country, where they are headed, we assume Kosovo and Metohija, we would like to know what agreement these military forces are going through our territory. Is that under the agreement of Vuk Draskovic, is it a SOFA agreement or any other agreement, perhaps with the Guard of Ohio? This is very important to us, so that we can inform our people, who are upset about this because they do not know what is going on and what is going on, in the right way, and all of this in order to calm down the tense situation, as it is these days, as far as solving Kosovo and Metohija's problems are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12889	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. We'll pass it on to the president and you'll get information, not only because of your people, but because of all the citizens of Serbia who need to be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12890	Mr. Obradic, as soon as this council is established, the Sutanovac himself has to arrest them, just to make some advice. There are no government representatives. Before I say a few sentences about this law, Mr. Vice President, yesterday I understood that the blood of the MPs was being analysed to help their health. so that representatives and MPs of the highest legislative body in Serbia can take appropriate measures if their health is threatened, because MPs are the holders of the sovereignty of this state. Today, I see, it says in the paper that MPs weigh 200 kilos, what is their waist size, etc. Because of the public, I want to say that I have 80 kilos and that my waist size is 87, and if the press is interested and some other measures come freely, they might increase the circulation. Thank you very much. Now about the law. The draft law on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, I should say, would be good if it were the law, not the basics, but well, we understood the argument. The first member of the bill says: "It is forbidden in the Republic of Serbia to establish and work security services beyond the provisions of this law. "There is also Article 22, which regulates something in this area. I just want to say that according to a special law, the BIA was founded. Now I ask if a new BIA law will be passed, because from the second position of the first member it might be understood that it will be so. In the second article - The principles of the operation of the Security Service, the last stance says: "Secrets of the Security Service cannot be members of political parties. "It is not, but it is; how it cannot be, but it is. Then I ask, will those who have already been expelled from the service? As far as we know, there are at least a few dozen of them we know are. So I'd like what's in the law to be true. When the law is passed, we'll tell who the members are. So now we offer a gentleman's agreement; when you adopt or don't pass the law, then we'll say which members of the service are members of which party, so let's see if they can stay there. Article 4: "The Security Services are a security-intelligence agency, as a special organisation, the Military Security Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency, as the authorities of the defence ministry. "I understand how the matter is defined here, but I understand, too, that it would be normal for in one of these laws to particularly highlight which services are engaged in counterintelligence work in Serbia. I ask, when security is said, what exactly does that mean, are security services and those involved in this work? Since I know they are, it would be good to know what kind of services they are, because I see that in several places in the law you mention intelligence jobs. Because of the people who listen to this, I want to say, intelligence is classic spying. So these are the jobs that provide information from foreign countries on various issues for the purposes of a single country. Counterintelligence services in one country protect their country, their resources and their prominent personalities from intelligence activities of other countries. It's not defined properly here. I'm asking if counterintelligence and counterintelligence protection and counterintelligence security of this country are well regulated. I'd like Mr. Secretary to tell me. I believe so, but I'd like to hear exactly how it is. Article 6: "The members of the Council are: President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister of Defence" etc. The President of the Republic can only be something based on the Constitution and under the Law on the President, which has just been adopted and which in a closer manner regulates the position, authority and activity of the President of the Republic. There is no lower law to prescribe the duties of the President of the Republic. I don't understand that. That's what we were talking about here in the principle debate and in your exposé, Mr. Minister, etc. Then it is said in Article 8 – the government will educate the Council's office through a regulation. Please, the Government cannot organise a regulation that the President of the Republic participates in afterwards. What regulation? The President of the Republic is elected on the basis of the Constitution and only the Constitution gives authority to the President of the Republic and defines its tasks and duties. Article 9: "The meeting of the Council shall be convened by the President of the Republic. The draft agenda shall be determined by the President of the Republic and by the Prime Minister. “ Think carefully about what might happen if the two of them can’t agree, which is otherwise possible. "The conclusions and other acts of the council are signed by the President of the Republic. "What is signed by the President of the Republic has precisely defined the Constitution - apparitions, declarations, pardons, etc. This is an impossible definition. The President of the Republic can sign a private letter -- dear friends, I wish you all the best, signed by Boris Tadic, or some other president, it doesn't matter. This is not the authority given to him by the Constitution. The Bureau of Coordination, we have bad experience with the bureaus. The information desk of that government... Mr. Minister, is the Bureau of Coordination the superseding of all security services? Since all security services have received or will receive them under the law, it may occur that the Bureau will have certain competencies affecting the most recent affairs of certain services. And it is not true, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that all these services have the same attitudes and the same attitude towards one and the same security issue. Who doesn't know? He doesn't know anything about this job. Because it's possible in one country that one service protects someone and another is stalking them. This is also possible in public security and security-informative agencies, but it is also possible in the service of military security and police security. You're mixing fire and straw here, because there's not a single director of service in the world who's going to be on the agenda of a colleague from the same country to provide information on all issues that are very subtle in solving certain security risks in one country. As far as the Bureau's composition is concerned, is the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic a superhuman? I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that this will be the only person who will have all the information on everything that's going on in the country. He alone, therefore, is neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Republic, because he participates in both the country's most subtle security risks. This is inadmissible. The law says it's the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic. We're not a state that has a presidential system. Security services in this country are being taken care of by the government. The President of the Republic is not the President of the United States, he does not have those powers, he has other powers, which are prescribed by the Constitution, and they are very precise. This is a government job. We are a system of parliamentary democracy, and we are not a presidential system. You have here given the President of the Republic of Power which does not give him the Constitution, and you have no right to do so. I spoke to the Legislative Committee about this and said that I could not plead that this was legally possible. Assembly supervision, please, Article 16: "The National Assembly shall supervise the work of the Security Service directly and through the competent committee of the National Assembly (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee particularly monitors the constitutionality and legality of the work of the security services; it monitors the consistency of the work of the security services with the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia. "Some of these documents are missing. As you know, we were talking about when we talked about the military law and about defence, some of the key strategic security documents of this country today we don't have. Those documents need to be adopted in order for this Article to be applicable. The obligation to keep secrets, that's Article 20. There are two arches here that refer to the members of the Security Committee. It is said: "The members of the Committee and the persons involved in his work are obliged to protect and store confidential information that they reach in the Committee's work and after their membership has ceased... ". It's okay. "The members of the Committee sign a statement on the obligation to keep secrets after the election to the Committee, and persons participating... ". And that's okay. "The security services inform the public of their work" etc., but then it is said that the members of the Committee have no right and say what is true, which is also fine, just this and that is secret. Mr. Minister, when the state will pass a law on the degree of documents in the area of security and in other areas, to know which rank is which information about confidentiality and who can and can't find out, and when he finds out how it's handled, because it doesn't matter. This is where it turns out, according to this, that the members of the Committee can be informed about the protocol issues in the Security Service report, and that they cannot, in essence, be informed. I can understand that, but it has to be defined what a MP can know as a member of the Committee and what he can't do. As far as I'm concerned, there is no secret in a state that under the legal conditions cannot be entrusted to a MP. For God's sake, what's this all about? Can an BIA officer assess what a secret an MP can't know? Well, it's not. The law needs to be passed and said how to deal with classified information. There will be words according to the amendments, so, Mr. Minister, the law you've made in the extortion. He's not all-inclusive, and it would be worth respecting these conditions that I've been looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12891	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12892	Mr. Judjevich, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 136. Rules of Procedure. Namely, there is a formal constitutional basis, but there is no basis in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, Mr. Minister, for this law to be found on the agenda, because Article 3. The law implementing the Constitution clearly defines what we have to have on the agenda today. What we have is something that looks like the law, but it's not what comes from the letter of the Constitution and the law. The basics of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia should not be the subject of our conversation at all. Now, from the presentation of colleagues, Baralic, especially last night, and from the presentation of the president of our parliamentary group, you saw that there was absolutely nothing we could do with this law. There are numerous examples. Here, I'll give you just some of them. So, if you wanted to be serious, not pro-forms, because of the recent launch of presidential elections, to approach this bill, we wouldn't have to deal with these speculations at all today. In Serbia, it is a big problem, because the mutual co-operation of the three services is undefined. We, as members of the Defence and Security Committee, know it best, and Mr. Dacic, the chairman of our committee knows it too. First, last year, when a separatist referendum was carried out in Montenegro, we took over the responsibilities of the former federal state. We cannot regulate the basics of the security system with this law, it is meant by the Military Intelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Agency, which was the jurisdiction of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro. At this point, Mr. Markovic, we must have a clear definition of the law. We have the BIA Act, which regulates BIA's relationship with the government, according to the Assembly, towards the President of the Republic. Excuse me, and what are our rights to oversee these two military agencies, or service? Explain to me whether you will now, Mr Markovic, or Boris Tadic will do so until he leaves the seat of the President of the Republic, or Kostunica, to tell people from the military summit, or the Military Intelligence Agency and the Service -- you will be seen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They'll say no, it's not in the law that regulates our work. This law does not regulate their work, just the basics of the system, how the security system should function in the state. We can tell Radet Bulatovic and he knows it, and that's why he comes twice a year and reports to us. These aren't obliged to do that. Here is, for example, this case, which was mentioned earlier by counterpart Vasiljevic -- that it is true, which is, that the forces of occupation KFOR, according to Vuk Draskovic's agreement, pass through the Republic of Serbia. What is the service of this three who knows and who should we address to ask her a question? Tell me, Mr. Markovic, was it normal for the director to actually be arrested by the Chief of Military Intelligence during the "Sabela" action, Mr. Ac Tomic, without anyone knowing where he is? They know those BIA guys, but these guys don't know. They put him somewhere because anti-constitutional emergency was imposed, so colleagues from the DSS, then MP Jocic and Mamula, him, Bandur and Radet Bulatovic were looking for three days and thought who knew where they ended up, in some ditch or buried them who knows where. It's impossible for us to talk about something that isn't an object and it shouldn't be the subject of our conversation. Everything's going to stay the same. (President: Time.) Here I am, Mr. Judjevich. So, the council, the communications bureau, and at this extremely sensitive moment per state and people, at the moment when we are threatened by the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija, when we must intervene to meet the Defence and Security Committee, Mr Minister, according to this law, none of the military intelligence services and from the Agency's advice are obliged to come and report to the MPs. Rade Bulatovic that, as director of BIA, and these people do not, because they are not bound by the law. By Thessalonica, here, on December 10th, events are going at an incredible speed, unfortunately, with increasing threats to our people and for safety in the environment and for southern Serbia, not to speak for the population in Kosovo and Metohija, and we don't know who we're going to ask and how these three authorities are going to co-operate. They knew from the Military Intelligence and Service to arrest Perisic for selling Najbor a state secret, or what he knew about our army, but they didn't know that. Now, that tells you enough that there is no connection between them, no cooperation, and that this law did not regulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12893	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Pesic be prepared. Petar Jojic is otherwise an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill is not good and we will not accept it, as far as the SRS is concerned, we will not vote for it. I must say, this bill cannot be corrected by amendments, nor can a thousand experts. A thousand experts can't get this out of the dead, because it's a bill of law that looks more like a law of terrorism than a law of intelligence. This is a law like the present constitution and this tells me that in preparation for New Year's Eve, this looks like a new year's package. Let's take it in a row. Article 1(2), this formulation in paragraph 2, is very problematic: "It is forbidden in the Republic of Serbia to establish and work security services beyond the provisions of this law." Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, some in this assembly and in this state know that we have passed the law of a certain service, and we may have at present, so here formally with one piece of paper, they are threatened no longer to act as intelligence services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose it is understood that no one can establish any intelligence services beyond what the law prescribes. How should Article 1(2) define and define this provision? Ladies and gentlemen, this is how you can add to all the members that other National Security Councils are prohibited in the Republic of Serbia, that the establishment of a National Security Bureau is prohibited in the Republic of Serbia, that the establishment of a Council Office is prohibited and that I do not list. So to each member this attitude could be added. What's the problem with Article 2 of the proposed law? He says "The security services operate on the basis of both the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the established security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia. "Mr. Minister, this time I would like to make an exception to get off the phone and wait for you to explain to the SRS and its MPs, and to introduce us on the basis of which other regulations and general acts will act as security services. Can you, Mr. Markovic, answer my question? You can't? If there is a law normised that it will act in accordance with the Constitution and the law, it is understood and I understand that, but I do not understand what other regulations and general acts are. Can you answer that, Mr. Secretary? Let's call, Mr. Vice President, the Directors of Intelligence to come and tell us on the basis of which other regulations and general acts they will act. This threatens a large number of abuses, for whoever applies this law will be called upon to another regulation, not to the law and the Constitution. That's why it's very dangerous and problematic. Mr. Minister, you are unable to answer this question because you have no knowledge of what other regulations will apply without the parliament of the Republic of Serbia knowing about them. It's a problem. Are those regulations, are they orders, are they binding instructions, are they rules, are they instructions or any other act? When it comes to the security of the state, it must be under the control of the people and the state and no one can hide some regulations and prescribe them past parliament and give them to someone who needs to use them in the process, because it is not a constitutional category. Whoever gets away from the Constitution, it's a very dangerous thing for democracy in the state. There will be no democracy in this country if this stays the way it is, and this law should be a mirror of democracy, with the Code of Criminal Procedure. You are now, ladies and gentlemen MPs from the ruling majority, in power, you will not be tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we do then? You will find yourself in a situation where some of the directors of the departments will prescribe such a general act by which they will follow you, arrest you, blackmail you, do whatever is against the constitution, and they think they are allowed to do it. So, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, you have no idea what regulations security services will control you, monitor you, record you, listen, listen, listen to your phones or rooms, blackmail you, arrest you, and not pick you up, and control other means of generalization. Serbian citizens have no chance of knowing. It's very dangerous, very problematic. I'm saying this because I know these services because I've worked in them. This question is very important because of a number of possible abuses, and there were, you know very well. The legislative body, which means the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, must directly or through the competent committee control all security services in this country. This, according to us, is a key issue that Serbian Radical Party MPs insist on. Next, ladies and gentlemen, who is proposing and where is the national security strategy and the defence strategy being adopted? Who is it that suggests and who is it that makes the decision and adopts and declares it to be used? Mr. Minister, can you answer who this strategy is? Yeah, I don't know, and you know it. Mr. Markovic, you tell those who wrote this bill and proposed it to the Assembly. What it means is that it is proposed in Article 2(2). Bill of Law - Politically neutral? Does this neutrality refer to the internal political relations of these services, does it refer to coalition political partners, or does it refer to political neutrality towards opposition political parties, or does it refer to political neutrality outside, to other countries? What does this term mean to you? I'm looking for an answer to this question, because I don't get it. Are we going to treat other countries, this is a very important question, ladies and gentlemen, and their intelligence services, whether they act neutrally or not? Is this why we will also determine the operational work of our security services, so we will say that we have a neutral attitude towards the countries of the European Union, so we cannot act in intelligence towards these countries? Then maybe we won't go to America either, because you from the current government are trying to grab the NATO Pact, and maybe you won't go to Russia, which is heartily helping us to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, I doubt that your neutrality as prescribed will be directed in the right direction. You can just point it at the Tamil Tigers. We today live in a very dangerous time, which has almost never been more dangerous for Serbia as a state and its people. I ask the question will we show this neutrality when it comes to sovereignty, territorial integrity and the security of our citizens, when it comes to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Shall we also show this neutrality, that we are not interested in Kosovo and Metohija? The Serbian Radical Party and thus pay attention, it advocates and does not allow anyone to take Kosovo and Metohija. In Article 2(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: You propose the bill: "Secrets of the Security Service cannot be members of political parties. "I ask the question and ask the answer, who and in what procedure determines whether a member of the security service is a member of a political party and how is this determined? I ask the question -- how do you determine whether a member of the Security Service is a member of a political party? Is this, ladies and gentlemen, determined by a personal statement of members, and is this determined by the reports of all political parties in the Republic of Serbia? Could this member be a member of a foreign or domestic NGO or of some foreign and governmental and non-governmental organisations? We're going to the Constitution. What does the Constitution say about this, in Article 21, is there discrimination here under the political confidence of the citizens? The right to work is regulated in Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question – is belonging to a political party an anti-constitutional category? It's not. If this is a constitutional category, then a man can be politically engaged, especially when it comes to operatives and lower officials in those services. I ask the following question – does this principle apply to security service managers as well, i.e. The chiefs of these services, the directors of the security department? Because, in practice so far, it has been found that the parties in power and how they control the security services by bringing to the executive posts members of their own parties, starting with the first leaders to lead these services, to regular bosses at the bar. Here, however, the blade is directed towards those ordinary officials, to small operatives who are otherwise the least members, members of ruling or opposition parties. I have knowledge that DOS 500 members were expelled from the Service by coming to power and receiving 300 new members from political parties. In the discussion of the details, I will talk about the national composition and the role of the opposition. In this proposal, there is no opposition law, and in parallel law in neighbouring countries, at the head of these institutions and working bodies there are people from opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12895	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic. He's not here. Then, MP Milisav Petronijevic, and let MP Dragan Todorovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here we are again after a few days to relocate over the next few days the bill you're explaining here. To begin with, the Constitutional Law obliges you to submit to the National Assembly a law governing security services. You didn't do it, you passed a law on the basics of the security service, which is not the same. So, we're just about to get a security order. When it comes to security services, Article 4 merely lists the services that exist. I will read in general, for the simple reason that this is the beginning of the next story: "The security services are BIA, as a special organization, the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, as the authorities of the Department of Defense. "As for the service, it's just that, everything else you didn't respect, you filed a law on the arrangement of the security service. When it comes to listing these security services, just to warn, all three listed, I am not talking about those that have not yet been covered, although it says that the establishment of services outside it is forbidden, are within the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, it writes in Article 4 – as the authorities of the Department of Defence and as a special organisation. Please remember that the powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is logical and normal, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the holder of the executive authority in Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates and manages politics, directs and coordinates the work of the authorities, etc. Why did I say all this? Because it's still just a ceramic, where you can't see what and how it's supposed to be regulated. First, in Article 3, Mr. Minister, it says that the work of the Security Service is under the supervision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council and the public. I'm asking you, given the debate we've been having here for several days on the Law on the President of the Republic, where did you find a source in the Constitution that the President of the Republic oversees the work of the Security Service? Why would I mention that? The Constitution very clearly determines the powers of the President of the Republic and no one else, nor the law, can give it more or less. Remember, Mr. Minister, those sentences, when we held a debate about the Republic President's Law? There's no room for that here, especially there's no room for a National Security Council, because it's not in the law. When you look at the third part, you'll see what the essence of this law is, and the essence of this law is that the President of the Republic takes control of the security services, and that's the whole story. Look at what he's doing, what he's harmonising about, what the National Security Council is about, who makes him, who presides, who serves him, who does it operationally. In fact, it is evident that the essence of this law is to put the security services under the control of the President of the Republic. Mr. Minister, I ask you to tell me where the constitutional basis is for giving the President of the Republic these powers, if the Constitution prohibits the President of the Republic from doing anything that is not already provided for in the Constitution, and the essence is that. The President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, together with the Prime Minister, holds the presidency, the President of the Republic signs, the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic is the Secretary of the Council. So he's even a member of the Service Coordination Bureau. So, all power is concentrated with the President of the Republic. Mr. Minister, it's the opposite of the Constitution. To us it still sounds like that sentence of Solana, which he said in May – Vojislav Kostunica cannot control the security service, it must be Tadic. Isn't this law a verification of it? What's good, at least the law, is not a decision, otherwise it would have been done by the Serbian government decision in June of this year, which would have been even more disastrous. Given the shortness of time, when there is a debate on details, we will develop the unconstitutional nature of these provisions when it comes to the National Security Council. I'll just be a short while at congregation oversight. Serbia's assembly oversees the work of the security service, and that is exactly what the Constitution says. Here the law says – directly and through the competent committee of the National Assembly. I ask, how does the National Assembly directly oversee the work? As far as the committee in charge is concerned, at the moment it is the Security Committee, there are a number of responsibilities here to put the service under the control of the Security Committee. When you spread it a little bit, you see that the promoter got scared, that he immediately began to reduce – you know, the director doesn't have to come to the session, send an assistant, etc. He can't, he has to come to the session. It doesn't have to be the day he's invited, so he can't come, let it be the next day, anytime, but it has to be. Next thing you know, the law here has clearly given the board everything he can. When you look at it and you look at the second part of what you can't do, there's nothing out of control. It is said in the first sentence that members of the Committee cannot ask for information about the identity of current and former service associates. Why don't you take off that security record once? Why don't you open them once? Yesterday, the president of the SPS parliamentary group asked for it to be done, to stop playing with those services once, because those issues are only being raised when someone wants to extract a tsar and question the functioning of the service, and there is no state in the world that has no security service and does not respect the security services. Of course, it's an obligation for the Security Service to work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and not to list any further. Thus, the promoter himself feared his approach to putting the service under the supervision of the National Assembly; he had devalued both his participation in the work and his list of things he could not do. I repeat once again, open those files already once, to remove the fam from those services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12897	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, you will probably formally adopt your majority's proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, but neither the citizens nor the state of Serbia will receive anything from these. We will formally have the law, but essentially this law will not serve the purpose it should serve, which is that the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia will be safer, to be safe both in property and in personal security, to make sure that it does not go as it pleases in this country and in the way it thinks it suits it, not the state of Serbia. How is it even possible for anyone to believe that we will be able to make our services, from military to police, be able to do their job? How is it possible, when in General Staff, the entire floor is given to the NATO Pact, or to the Americans? Is there any other country in the world that is in this way trampling on its own sovereignty? Do you think that we are able in this way to protect our own country from who our greatest enemy is and has shown this in the last 20 years, and here slowly brings to an end our own goal, the abduction of Kosovo and the Metohija? How can we believe that we will be protected when one of the former foreign ministers signs an agreement with the NATO Pact? Under that agreement, NATO troops will sign an agreement whenever they want and wherever they want to go through our country, and they can rent military facilities, and then the President of the Republic signs an absolute immunity agreement for NATO soldiers, especially US soldiers, and you release them from any responsibility, even if they commit war crimes, to extradite them to any other state, to be tried in this country, except to return them to the United States. How can we even believe that our security services will be able to protect our state and these confidential data, which they will not be able to give to the Serbian Parliament, because in this section to which the data can be sought from the Military Security or any other agency, when in NATO's seat our representatives have been openly told that they expect our country to sign an agreement on the exchange of confidential information and that they are not interested in whether it will be ratified in the Serbian Parliament, as no previous agreement has been ratified because they will carry out all the actions they are interested in under this agreement. Do you think that if such an agreement had been signed, General Perisic would have been arrested in giving secrets to John Najbor, an American diplomat, or a spy on the territory of the SRJ? No, we will, under this agreement, practically put our security services in the service of the United States, or NATO. We'll pay them, they'll work, but they'll work for them. That's the problem we're facing. We are a state which, unfortunately, literally, not formally, signed capitulation, a state that implements all that a state carries out when it capitulates is just not formally put on paper yet. Also, this law provides for the possibility of political, ideological and interesting neutrality of the security service. Is there anyone in the Serbian Parliament who believes that? Is there one of you, and in the coalition, who believes that the service will not be abused, or that the ministries will not be abused? Well, you feel it on your own skin. All these affairs... Here, today's "The Voice of the Public" says that this great crime is related to PIC land in the Zemun affair in which some former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic participated, that today is a respected member of the DS, that he is very rich, just not a picture, and that's what your coalition partner does. These are the relationships between you now, but please, how is that possible? How is it possible for someone to come out with such information in a law - order state? I guess that's classified information. How is it possible to get that information? Simply, someone from the Ministry of Interior gives their journalists, because they are interested, since the timing of the presidential election is clearly approaching, and now they, the DSS, are slowly putting clips in the wheels. Instead of being information to be discussed by the Defence and Security Committee, to get these data, to clear up all these affairs once, they are used in each other's accounts. That's the problem we've been facing for a long time. While there was a SCG, the Defence and Security Committee could never obtain data when it came to some affairs and the obvious involvement of certain state bodies, i.e. persons in these affairs. I had a chance to remember in one session of the Committee, all those famous Pancir affairs, because I had reliable information and information about the involvement of the highest state authorities, the then president of the state, the then defence minister, with some more state figures... When we came to the information that political structures had both effect on military and police intelligence not to provide information, which is an obvious abuse, and when we put it on the agenda, do you know what happened? Well, a very simple way to get off the agenda democratically, most people decide and then we come into a position that, although everyone is aware that politics has mixed its fingers, that it has put pressure on us, we can't investigate it because it doesn't fit the ruling majority. It'll always be like that. When it comes to the opposition, that information will come out without any trouble in the light of day. It's been, I think, two years, I remember Mr. Shami, he took part in the work of that session and voted to take it off the agenda, but here, this affair is experiencing a judicial epilogue. I'm not just thinking about Mr. Shami, they're sitting here and DS, they're voting to get off the agenda, but, look, she's had a court epilogue. The court will now discuss, I guess we'll come up with a fact that should point to all the actors. What about Svetozar Marovic? He's not even a citizen anymore. Mr. Vlahovic laughs, but that's a fact. Then when we could do something, you didn't want it because it was politically appropriate for you, regardless of the damage the state had. Here, it is shown in the best way in this affair and in many others. What are we going to do about the problem we have with protected witnesses, say? How is it that protected witnesses, whenever necessary, appear with information, or newspapers are being informed, and that at a certain point there are certain statements, related to individuals who are still current in politics? It's obviously only suited to one side, the side that the Ministry of the Interior has. What does that tell us? It tells us that we did not create conditions for this law to really enable the state of Serbia to have effective security services, telling us that these services will continue to be misused by politics and, unfortunately, we are facing it. Therefore, much more serious, more precise legislation should be written, and in particular a part of control, civil control, or, as you say, democratic civilian control. That would mean parliamentary control, which is the simplest thing, the only one who would be able to control parliament is parliament, and then find the possibility that this control by parliament does not depend on the ruling majority. Because when you get into a situation that depends on most of the time there's no control, then it's a farce, then we come to that fable when the fox called the stork and born the fox to lunch, but both of them went hungry from that lunch. Now, roughly, you're inviting the opposition to lunch, but in advance you know it won't be anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12899	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milena Stankovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Professor Mileta Poscurica. Here, the total time for your parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 198, which gives me the right to ask the Minister a question. I would use your presence to ask you a question from your portfolio, and I apologize for interrupting the discussion, but the minister is here, so I'd like to get an answer to this question. In fact, a group of citizens of Kostolac contacted me with the question whether Kostolac entered the draft law on local self-government, in terms of obtaining the status of the municipality and if not why not, since he meets all the conditions for obtaining that status. The law on local self-government has been in the process for a long time; the citizens of Kostolec launched the initiative in 2002, along with some other NGOs. You should be familiar with this problem, since they have seen your advisor, Mr. Radosavljevic, so I would ask you to answer me immediately, if possible. If not, then by Article 200, you can provide me with a written reply within eight days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12901	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12902	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, the change in the boundaries of the units of local self-government, as well as territorial autonomy, is possible only with a preliminary statement by citizens in the referendum. This was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, both those from 1990 and this Constitution that is in force today. In order to change the borders of municipalities, a referendum should be carried out in that unit of local self-government, or territorial organisation, if the borders of Vojvodina are changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12903	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Professor Mileta Poscurica, and let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us, more than once has been said, a pseudo-legal project, something that would look like an outline, a outline, the idea of what something in the future should look like, since it's just wearing a title -- about setting up a security service. Now, if there is to be more detail about each of these services that are taxed, there is no such thing in this law. We think it would be more logical to complete this story once, that we are not given the delayed functioning of the laws already passed, which should be, I guess, incorporated into the new Constitution and the Constitutional Law, but of course, the national security strategy, the defence strategy and one political resolution on the security strategy, which has not been adopted or we know when they will be adopted, how they will be adopted and what they will bear. This is very important because for the implementation of these laws and the jurisdiction arising from them for the services that will be given to them should know what will be done in this context of the service. The only conclusion remains that this is one of those laws that has been impromptuly passed in order to increase the wealth of powers that, apparently past the Constitution, the President of the Republic, is probably already deeply convinced that it will be Tadic, that he will have the right, through this one, to have two more mandates and that he will be able to control everything he wants for a long time and whoever he wants to control. It's not clear to us from the opposition, nor is it strange, nor are we particularly amazed or confused, but we are surprised why the coalition partner allows such a multiplication of authority, without respecting the Constitution, which he apparently voted for and fought very hard, I mean, first of all, for the DSS. Why do you have to go to giving this much authority to the first man in Serbia and his cabinet chief, multiply, we'll see later, body compositions with the same people. This, therefore, can be a significant risk and a source of a significant part of freedom or information about many people in Serbia who will be covered up, available, unreachable, or at an appropriate time placed against their safety, their will, unorthodox and compromised style. Of course, anything's possible when it comes to the structures that you've foreseen in these law-makings... Why do I tell the contours? It was simply necessary to put some general principles of what the service is doing, which is in charge, which of these is counterintelligence, which is not, which are methods of their operation and automatically cross: BIA does this, VBA does this, etc. Why bring special three new laws, I don't know what it takes. This could have been a bit thicker material, which contains everything in it, and then it would have been the end of the story and one big story closed. What the laws will do, because these are pretty principled decisions, of course we don't know, but we'll wait and see. When it comes to the composition of members of the council, there were ideas here, and it was going through yesterday, that there should be room for the foreign minister, whoever it is right now. What their jurisdiction is present, current, less or more benevolent or insignificant to these services, should be found there. It is possible, theoretically or democratically, that the president of parliament is also put in place, that certain ministers may be called upon, because these services can sometimes be responsible not only for spying and counter-spying, counterintelligence, but also for some segments of elemental, mass disasters that one can cause, so ministers from other competences that would benefit the work of such a council are needed. The government's going to provide an office and a technical service, we understand that, and that's always been the case. This time, the government will act on the request of the President of the Republic; but neither would they do it naively, there is probably a deal and a deal -- you do it to me, it will be done and put in place the person you need. Within the communications bureau, we can see that three people, or four persons, are repeated within the Bureau, four officials who are exactly the same as those found in the council. So this repeat of the same people means a concentration of power; it means an agreed decision in the bureau itself to present to the council. The president of Serbia can be calm, because there is his cabinet chief, who leaves with him, his loyal man and he will always pass on to him. Will the President of the State, or the Prime Minister, know everything he needs to know; will anyone else know? When you look at the current structure, you see that this relationship is four to three, and if you look at the structure of the agencies, you see that it is likely to expect, despite the declared a politicism, that it will be mainly composed of people and personnel belonging to the Democratic Party, where the DSS and others will obviously remain in significant shortfall. When it comes to the composition of the Bureau, there are ambiguities, as well as in the work of the council, who is the head of the bureau, as they meet, of course will have the Rules of Procedure, there will be a rule of work and he will write a council, when they meet, who chaires, who manages and much more. When it comes to the structures of these services and the general provisions, which I think should be put into this law, the general principles and their functions, that should be found and collected, the way of collecting, at least the basic provisions, that is public, secret, from the register, that we know why it is important, when we talk about supervision, to know MPs, in direct or indirect supervision of the Assembly board, what they can ask, as far as they can go, that their jurisdiction is not so pre-limited. There will be certain and temporary restrictions on freedom and human rights and let's see who makes the decision, perhaps Supreme Court judges, because who else would. So could the President of the Supreme Court be a member of the council, so whether only the President of the Supreme Court, or some authorised judge, is one or more judges. So there's a lot of uncertainty left, and that should have been resolved in advance, so for the record, all three of these services will have these methods of working. We're not going to get into what their results are on the ground, because it can't be entered into the law, but the methodology of the work was, let's say, how to record the data, what to put under hierarchical secrecy, what security checks are, will the officials of these services be checked, to what level, will the directors be subjected to counterintelligence checks, will they know anything about them? So it had to be defined more precisely, and then taxed on these three laws, which could have been about the same cost, so to speak, passed. Is it in terms of hiding the identity of a person, even a company that will deal with some work, intelligence, whether it will be... Whether the MP, not knowing all of it, will begin to ask one another, another, and then say - you can't do it, you can't find out. There is a colitision, which is quite clear, in Article 16 paragraph 2. - oversees the legality of the application of special procedures and measures. That's what we find in the context of direct surveillance, it repeats itself again. How will the MPs know what special measures and procedures are, because they must be defined. It must be known, they mean that and that, not the way they apply, as it stands here, because that MP doesn't care. Finally, undefined counterintelligence activity can be a significant problem. It is clear to all of us that it acts mainly within the country and is clearly its jurisdiction. We had BIA working inside the country more than it should have, instead of acting, by rule and definition, and to investigate the situation outside, in the environment. We are not calm because of what is done in Kosovo and Metohija, and of course we are not still in our environment either. Whether BIA will cover both or go elegantly into counterintelligence and intelligence work and the sphere of the army; armies that are not there, which the Democratic Party has completely destroyed and for a time, of course, has contributed significantly to that by a man from G17 plus Davinic. If we've destroyed it so much, so much hurt, I don't believe that by strengthening the agency we're going to want to have and to operate on information that the security services will find out. So the question is why is the law passed in this way, except that it simply gilds the frame on which Boris Tadic will sit?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12905	The People's MP Vlado Sekulić has the word, and let the MP Zdravko Topalović be prepared, and then the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister has just left, and I wanted to ask him, he is the rapporteur in front of the government, and whether his recommendation was that he completed his special studies with Mr Dragisic at the Faculty of Security. Otherwise, Mr Dragisic is the chief adviser to the DS for military and security issues, along with Mr. Aleksandra Radic, and there is Mr. Bulatovic, then Svetko Kovac and Jocic, head of the VOA - Military Intelligence Agency. It looks like they wrote this bill, because it's simply here that a thread has been transmitted and there's a conflict between the government and the president of the Republic representing the DS. Looking at the law, but in Article 1 it is evident that the same importance has not been given to intelligence services, not just to security services. I mean, specifically, the SID, it's your Research and Documentation Service. Mr. Minister said yesterday that this service is being abolished, so now I'm asking Mr. Minister -- are they employees in that service now, so to speak, sleepers, so one day the minister will activate them and they will re-engage? Where are these people? That's where the VOA is specifically neglected. It is said that members of the Security Service cannot be members of political parties and must be impartial and politically neutral. When I listed all these people who must have been involved in making this law and being exposed, always on the DS side, is it true what it says in the law, is it true? Also, it is said to be "the security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia". Well, the word "political" doesn't go with intelligence, because intelligence services shouldn't deal with politics, but with some of their own ingenuities and their conclusions and solutions that they should work on. The security-intelligence system is full of inaccuracy and this can be seen in Article 4, and the evidence of this is that no republican authority has yet been established to monitor and control the operation of all intelligence and security systems. When will the council be established and what will be its obligation to the Serbian Parliament's Security Committee? It's unclear who's forming a Security Service Coordination Bureau and whose jurisdiction he's in. You've only written under whose supervision it is; the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council, all oversees, and who's in fact in charge, we'll just see it during some period that's coming. The Military Intelligence Agency (VOA) is not a security agency, it's an intelligence agency, and it's classified as a security service. Other competent national authorities are also mentioned in the section relating to jurisdiction. It is not clear what other authorities are and why the city of Belgrade is being singled out, is it because it is the largest city or is there some other claim in this law? The law uses the term "work." It's something that really... Here, when you read a little bit about all the security or intelligence agencies, the word activity is used as an expression for some subversive actions against the state; the work is done by people who are against our country, the enemy deals with activity. The real expression for these services is that they have their own ingenuity and their tasks, and the work, it's already for some subversive and other actions and it's inappropriate for this part of the law. The National Security Council, in your opinion, needs to draw conclusions that it coordinates and directs co-operation of security services with foreign security services and international organisations. Isn't that the congregation's jurisdiction? According to this, and in the Constitution when read, it is the Parliament's jurisdiction to oversee and regulate this part. It is illogical that the council has greater authority than the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, by electing Serbian citizens, members of the Defence and Security Committee. Who chooses the members of this council? Council members are listed: President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Interior Minister, Justice Minister, Chief of Staff of Serbia's Army, Directors of Security Services. There is no mention of the president of the assembly, nor of the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. Article 7 is unconstitutional, because by Article 99. The constitution, item 6, the Serbian Parliament regulates the jurisdiction of security agencies. It says exactly that the National Assembly is overseeing the work of the Security Service. It is pointless for the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic to be a secretary in office; the President of the Republic has no jurisdiction over security services, as shown in Article 112. The Constitution. Articles 7 and 8 show a direct conflict between the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister, or it is divided by an interesting definition. Confucius is especially seen in Article 8 where the advice, bureau, office is listed, and who is going to do what, who is being controlled, no one knows. In Article 9, there is an unconstitutional provision. Article 112 The constitution regulates the authority of the president. The president has no jurisdiction over security agencies. The council is working, and the Bureau is coordinating. The Bureau has magically become more important than advice. Instead of being obliged to co-operate with the competent state authorities, you are forcing the state authorities to cooperate with the council. A special story is the principles of supervision, the principles of political, ideological and interesting neutrality. What's an interesting neutrality? I guess it's the interest of all these services to work in the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. This interesting neutrality could be defined differently. It is known in practice that while the security service is operationally working, there is no public information available. It is said that committee sessions can be closed to the public. It's something that you might say is also cleverly done. But most of all, some of them need to be shut down just because of the four horsemen of the apocalypse, Natasha, Sonja one and two, and for Mrs. Biljana. This is what I expected you to invite them to the Security Committee sessions. They should sometimes be imprisoned for the very enemies I have led to, the enemies of the Serbian citizens. It is unclear how the control of the application of measures that deviate from practice will be regulated, from the constitutional principles declared: telephone control, conversations, movements, covert monitoring and so on. There is no regulation on who will approve and under what conditions direct supervision is carried out. Why is the work of the Security Service not governed by this law but governed by a special law? Here is an illogical aspect, seen from the economic and financial aspects: the Bureau is established, there are new employees, vehicles, fixed assets, crafts, and in the reasons for the implementation of this law it is said that there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Obviously, someone here lies and presents false facts. Also, I'd like you, Mr. Dulic, to stop my time because I want to ask the minister a question that is very much about this. I'm sorry, maybe the local self-government minister won't know how to answer, but he should. Is it true that Mr. Svetko Kovac, retired at the end of 2005 in the rank of general, continues to work as director or head of the Military Security Agency, even though he has been retired for two years? What qualified him for this place, and what results did he achieve as retired chief of the VBA? Did he do his job? How did he accomplish the weighty task, I specifically mean the security of the army minister, the murdered Pavel Bulatovic? That was his first assignment. Is Svetko Kovač a member of the Management Board of Southport - SDPR, Federal Directorate for Transport of Goods Reserves with special purposes? Is Minister Sutanovac also a member of the SDPR Management Board? Does Mr. St. Kovac's son work in the SDPR and his daughter in Tadic's office? On what basis did he get and acquire a house next to VMA, on Raska Street?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12907	The word has a folk MP, Zdravko Topalovic, and let the MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12908	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, in the bill of this law, most of the members are called upon by the government for the Constitution, which is supposed to be so, but in the practice of security services, they do not hesitate to violate the members of the Constitution relating to fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Members 39 are most often broken. Serbia's constitution, freedom of movement, inviolability of the apartment, Article 40, member of the 41st secretion of letters and other means of communication. These violations of the constitution by the security services are most pronounced in cases where they are detained, tapped, followed by families and friends of Serbian heroes, Hague indictees. This law does not provide for any criminal provisions for members of the Security Service who violate their powers by violating the Constitution. You say BIA, VBA and VOA are a unique part of the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Serbia. That's not true. The ruling coalition has divided the management posts in services and in the National Security Council towards party membership and by co-operation with foreign intelligence services. Now imagine meeting of the National Security Council: the president of the Republic of Serbia from DS, a sympathiser, and perhaps a co-worker of Germany's GNI intelligence service; the Prime Minister, who has not yet informed himself of which intelligence service he is favored; the defence minister from the Democratic Party, who has completed a GNI intelligence and spy course at Garmis; the justice minister from the DS; the Serbian Army Chief of Staff, who is related to Serbia's president and the Ojah National Guard officer; the DSS police minister. It's the composition of the National Security Council. As things stand, the U.S. Embassy's board of directors, assisted by the CIA, GND, MI 5, MI 6. In the part of the law relating to the oversight of the work of the security service, you say that there is a special arrangement for monitoring by the congregation. As an MP, I have the impression that the Assembly Security Committee has not always been informed of the work of our security services, such as the foreign intelligence services operating in Serbia. Here's what the Assembly of Services controls are like. At one of the previous sessions, I asked the police minister whether it is true that there is a department in the Security-Intelligence Agency after the five-October coup dealing with opposition parties and organisations of the patriotic orientation and whether MPs from that option are listening and being followed. Do you know what kind of answer I got? That the police minister is not in charge of this, and imagine, he's a member of the National Security Council. Didn't he want to answer me or was he as uninformed as his Prime Minister? Gentlemen of the Security Service, do not engage in Serbian heroes who escape the Hague Inquisition, leave their family and friends alone. You are dealing with the security of Serbian citizens, clear your ranks of foreign intelligence services and neutralize their fact in Serbia. Release the political parties of patriotic orientation and anti-Hash definition, and focus your work on NGOs run by Kandićka, Biserko and Licht, representing the CIA, GND, MI 6 and openly calling for a total occupation in Serbia. May your role model be Russian security services that successfully oppose such phenomena in Russia. If you pass a law like this, at least respect it, especially the Constitution, over which you can't and cannot act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12909	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, sets the time for Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12910	This is one of the last laws in preparation for the election. It is likely that Mr. Dulic will call the 14th election, as he calculates that he will successfully complete all laws concerning the President of the Republic. So we had a Constitutional Court, a defense, an army, diplomacy yesterday, here, today we have this, and that completes one part of the executive government that would have to be in the hands of the Democratic Party. That's one whole. Now, roads are different; this time, of course, is wrong, a path that has no legal and constitutional basis. I must remind you of one thing, that the Constitution accurately prescribes the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. When I say the President of the Republic, I mean an organ, not a person who currently performs that function. The President of the Republic shall do what is prescribed by the Constitution. The Constitution only states in one place that it is obliged to do something under some law, which is the Law of the Army. There are no more laws that the president can commit to, everything else is his constitutional jurisdiction. Democratic Party of Intelligence Expert Milan Markovic, a lecturer at Dragisic, otherwise, that Faculty of Dragisic and the creator of these security regulations, so they clearly stepped into something called unconstitution... How unconstitutional that is, and I must say illogically, it also proves that if these two agencies within the army have some points of contact with the military and the President of the Republic of the Constitution is the commander of the army, because he commands the military, then when it comes to this second, civilian, the President of the Republic has absolutely no jurisdiction. I just need to remind you that in this area we have both secret regulations and secret regulations. They've been inherited since the SFRY period, regulations that haven't been published anywhere, and they're bound by national security. In the new jargon, Markovic and Dragisic would say - rules of conduct, rules of service and rules of the profession, and a secret regulation. The whole job, when it comes to these information security services, is how to frame the law illegally. Of course it's an impossible mission. How could someone be a spy by law? That's impossible. Only one category of civil servants are spies by assignment and by law, and these are ambassadors, they are official spies of the state from which they come to the state where they perform their duties, everything else is out of the law. Now someone's trying to convince us that we can put it in some legal framework. That's impossible. Then we are proposed something that reflects democracy and a reflection of transparency, so it is said -- all services will be controlled, democratic control and public control. Now let's see who those brands are for democratic control and public control. President of the Republic - why is he a brand for democratic and public control? I don't see, perhaps his power is in some way democratic, because he has legitimacy in the elections, but it's not proof of democracy. Why would the public be provided if he, as a member of the council, were to exercise control over the Director of the Security and Information Agency? They're civil servants, they're not elected faces. It's illogical. What's surveillance? What kind of surveillance is that, if I can't get an object, files containing clues to what was done in that case. He says the Security Council will work in line with the strategy. It is as if they wrote -- in line with the Serbian Radical Party programme or with the Democratic Party programme. Why would a party's strategy or programme commit someone who's employed by the BIA? You wrote it. I'm going to give you a concrete example, I'm dealing with them a long time ago, you know, they're giving me, I'm giving them, and so on. Do you know there's one service in UBPOK that's been listening? There was a saviour in charge, I guess that saviour's still in charge. He's friends with Mladjan Dinkic, Mladjan Dinkic tells him - order those who listen to my friends' pranks to listen to them so that in the evening, when we drink somewhere I have something to feast them on. The man says I'm not going to do it, because it's not by law and by the Constitution, and they're suspending the man from work. Of course, Dinkic is the image of democracy and transparency. Just to remind you, G17 plus has several disputes before the courts, because they used the services of former intelligence agencies to find evidence that Neda Arneric voted from Bodrum and to check some other things. Here, in front of the First Municipal Court, the proceedings are under way. I know, they didn't pay the man, you know, the FIA, which was that wolf, Wolf, Wolf, what is it, a werewolf. You see, Mladjan Dinkic is all in some mystic and all that secret intelligence... But we can't win, Mr. Batic, the answer to the question of where the money is from Cyprus. We can't get that money. You see, Markovic escaped because he knows I'm out; how he can convince me that it's democratic and public, impossible. Under the Constitution, we need to resolve the security issue, but we don't need to solve the basics of security. We need to figure out how those who are in power will sit at the same table and control something, and one, the other, and the third and the fifth will give nothing. They can't talk like this, and that's where they're gonna talk and discuss security issues. What kind of black security do they talk about? One of my predecessors pointed out exactly who works for which service and which service he pushes to be in office here. It hasn't been solved who gave that CD to the Americans yet. A lot of things haven't been solved yet. It's not solved, it's not in jail. If he were in jail, it would be settled. Secondly, we don't even deal with questions about who worked in those services. Probably people who like money a lot, because they change sides in no time. Where's the money, and they're changing sides. Now just something to let you know, seeing as you're suffering from unintelligence. The US Embassy used to have an economic adviser, and that man was an economic adviser in Yugoslavia for 10 years. His estimates of gender in agriculture and balance were infallible when estimates were given in November one year, and all our ministries, our chambers of commerce, statistics made huge mistakes and could not hit a balance, nor what kind of kin they would be. When they were interested in how this economic advisor knew all this, they came to the conclusion that he was reading our newspaper very nicely. In our paper, you have everything and everything, everything is transparent and it's all public. It's all pre-announced. There's this Balkan group here, these women, the Bird, there's these other agencies that get all this together and they finish the job. Where are our agencies and what have they stopped? They're gone. When a safety advice is made, it will be prevented. He won't. So it's not the law's problem, the problem is who needs to enforce the law, whether he can or will. Those who are in power to enforce the law in their own way, interpreting it that way -- the old one, co-ordinates, can only be this, only that, and not what happens and what is being prepared. Because all these services need to protect us. How? First of all, preventive. How do they prevent us from being protected? So bad, and the proof of that is the fact that before they do, I find out what's going to happen. I'd probably have to be the last one to find out. How many things do you MPs know before you get any official notice of what's coming? Then why are we passing the law? Let's take care of these services, make sure the coalition doesn't fight who's following who. Why don't you take the law of those who, without any basis, follow, do you from Fruska up, because you have 1 million-euro equipment and you can listen to whatever you want? At the American embassy in the basement, there's a room where everyone's listening, everything's listening to new listening devices. They were also here in the Assembly, so we kicked them out two years ago. Yes, he did, Sekulovic worked with them, and Sutanovac, up there was that office where they were. So we took a shit, the fugitives. Every once in a while, I'm making some kind of inspection again, and I'm gonna send them away again. Do you know where they ran off to? The Belgrade girl. From there, they film everything, they watch, it's clear. It's all clear, but it's just not clear why this government is making us so confused. They're distracting us, making a conflict between fans and police to distract us from something that's very important. So then they find some MP, they took our blood yesterday to make it an attraction for us for the next five days to talk about it. I hear they're going to measure how heavy you are just to get the minds and attention of the citizens off what's important to what's peripheral, to keep the people entertained. Of course, I don't participate in that party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12911	Thank you. Here you are, Mr Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12912	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few weeks ago, I asked for information on a subject that sounds bizarre, but shows the true nature of this government - robbery and thieving. I showed from this pay phone three decisions signed by the director-general of "The Railway of Serbia" Mr. Milenko Sarancic on the adaptation and reconstruction of the station toilet at the train station in the Kingdom. There's a camera, it's those decisions. It shows the papers. It would be funny, but it's sad. The adaptation, or reconstruction of the station toilet, by these decisions was supposed to cost five and a half million dinars. Probably trying to investigate what I was saying... But we MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the LDP parliamentary group have, of course, insiders and we have information, and this is information about the work on adaptation of the stationary toilet in the Kingdom, which the Infrastructure Directorate, the Investment Sector, has provided to the Director General. That information explains what they're going to do to adapt it, since the sanitary inspector has temporarily banned the use of the toilet. This includes companies to perform these works: one from Lesnica, the other from Loznica and the third from Sevojn. This is what any trade shop in the King's or the environment, the suburbs of the Kings, will do in a few days. I repeat, five and a half million dinars, 70,000 euros. Here's what this magnificent building looks like. Its surface is... This is a picture from 21 August 2007. It shows a picture. Anyway, and this is, apparently, but I can't believe the picture from November 23rd, a few days ago, after I asked for information. It shows a picture. Turns out nothing's been done. It's like a house of horrors. But let's forget all this. According to this information, the object that is reconstructed, or adapted, has a total of 39 square meters. I've been asking around the building people. Apartments are sold, not in downtown Belgrade, but in the vicinity, for example in Obrenovac, a comfortable apartment with central heating is between 400 and 550 euros. (President: Time. I'm done. This is 70,000 euros. It could have been completed and the Spanish tiles put on, for 7,000 euros. They robbed over 60,000 euros, robbed. Will the D.A. react to this thief? It could have made four or five apartments for the railroads. (President: Thank you, Mr. Batic, your time is up.) I'm done. It's a picture and an opportunity for Serbia. The same ones who forbid promotions and stands in the Arangelovac, they lie, steal, rob, and take, which is the best example.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12913	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12914	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in every country's defence system, there is a security intelligence service that will protect the state and the citizens. When it works in this purpose, it justifies its existence. We are aware that in the 20th century there were totalitarian regimes - fascism, communism, but at the beginning of the 21st century the totalitarian regime was the one called DOS. You know that these regimes did not actually serve for these purposes, which I said forward, but to follow the citizens, or to follow the political inexperience. Probably somebody's gonna ask themselves - so what's DOS for? Well, after the Friday revolution, many leaders of the 18 political parties, who worked in such a lively co-habitation, and many of these people belonged to intelligence services. After you came to power, you drove your political insolents to The Hague, to little Siberia, where you want to deal with them because you don't have the strength here, in your own country; to assist your sponsors, with a great desire to remain in power, you packed them there. You big heroes, patriots, heroes, such as Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who at his status conference showed all of you that DOS-Mali rule came to the helm in 2000, to rule Serbia... Also, it should be asked whether these intelligence services will be dealt with, as Mr Dragan Todorovic said in his presentation, and with business related to a major erosion of the economy, society, state, which is crime, mafia, which is the property of this DOS democratic government. You know that pathological image that you acquired in this seven-year rule tells you how much you robbed the economy of Serbia and millions of unemployed people led to a beggar stick. What is also very important, I believe that many know, but many don't know, is that after Germany's capitulation one of the largest intelligence services - the Gestapo takes over the CIA; it continues its trend that the Gestapo had in that period, because the Gestapo intelligence service was one of the strongest in Europe. Know that many questions, which should also be asked... Because I see how important this law is to you, you sent the Minister of Local Self-Government to coordinate with this work, but now he's gone, not present to answer any questions asked. You have heard from many speakers here about these NGOs, but you must know that these intelligence services throughout Serbia in the 1970s have been very active in Kosovo and Metohija. What is their range or how much they have achieved that desire is seen, because their work is not ad hoc, only to happen immediately, but they are services that have worked for many years to achieve their goal, which is why they exist. We know well what humanitarian organisations that first appear, what Walker did in Kosovo and Metohija and what his crimes towards Serbia and the Serbian people later were.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12915	The People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12916	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia. Given the situation that is in our country and what everyone knows is that we are about to have one of the most difficult moments for the state of Serbia, to threaten the abduction of Kosovo and the Metohija and the possibility of escalating violence and other things that can cause it, it is normal that in one regulated state all services, and especially security services, to be placed under control and to have an accurate assessment of the situation in such crisis areas, where escalation can occur in something larger. A lot of my colleagues have already talked about the proposal for this law that is ahead of us having a lot of inadequacy and seeing that this law has only been passed to fulfill the form for calling presidential elections. That seems to be the only thing that matters to you, I think of the Democratic Party, since it is seen that a lot of powers have been given here to the President of the Republic in relation to the Prime Minister. Article 2 of the Law defines that members of the Security Service are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations and general acts and cannot be members of political parties. We know that after October 5, there has been a major transformation of the security services, that there has been a change in the BIA, as well as in the military security forces, with over 500 members of these services retired or deployed to other jobs, and that a lot of your political equalists (and we cannot prove that your party members) have been appointed to the highest functions in all these security structures. What's given in Article 2 is absolutely denied. As for the self-control of the work and operation of all these security services, it is legal for the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament to do so. However, you have already stated in article 17 -- if the Director of the Security Service is prevented, he can send his authorised representative. However, we see that when the Ministers, who are to be here when the individual laws are explained, leave their assistant or authorised person, they cannot give us any answer because there is no authority from the Minister. And when it comes to such serious and important issues for the functioning of the state, surely none of the assistants or deputies can provide concrete answers. The Committee shall be chaired by the Chair of the Committee, who, together with the members, who elect or propose political parties, shall ask questions and shall seek answers to certain situations. Serbian Radical Party MPs insisted, when General Tolimir was arrested, that precise and concrete answers be given to where General Tolimir was arrested, whether this happened in the Republic of Serbia or, as an official statement was made, in Republika Srpska. However, they did not respond. We have knowledge that it was done right here in Belgrade, and on the day of the arrest, we immediately brought this information to the public. However, we did not get information from whoever we were supposed to get it from, so, in fact, the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament and there are no major powers -- it can ask questions and ask questions, but there is no possibility of sanctioning any irregularities in the work of security authorities in the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party cannot vote in favour of the bill, because there are many shortcomings in the law itself, it has not been studied, but has been made pro-forma, only to meet another requirement and to call presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12917	The People's Messenger Zvonko Mihajlović has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12918	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at a time when the new world order tends to endanger all free-loving, and small countries in Serbia are more than necessary to have a well-organised and modern army and well-trained police, who will be ready to meet all the challenges and tasks set before them. It is impossible to imagine an effective military and police force without those in their ranks having a depolitical and professional security service. Members of the Security Service, as the law provides, cannot be members of any political party, relieved of any prejudice, but must be professionals, patriotically minded, well-trained and well-paid. One of the basic tasks of the Military Security Agency and the Security Information Agency is the fight against organised crime. We ourselves have witnessed organised crime flourishing in Serbia. Not a month goes by without the public showing that an organized criminal group has been discovered and arrested, which has damaged the state budget by a multimillion-dollar dinar amount. If these services were to be depolished to the end and organized crime would not come from the top of the government, these actions would be more and more and crime would be minimised. The second task of these services is counterintelligence. And in this area, we are witnessing that Serbia is being followed by various foreign intelligence officers who are recruiting our citizens for their interests and needs. The phenomenon is particularly evident when it comes to recruiting false witnesses to the UN tribunal's interests, and for the purposes of the Hague prosecution in a mounted trial against Professor Vojislav Seselj. And, what it represents, in my opinion, is the most important task of these services is the fight against terrorism. The state of Serbia has been facing this problem for years. The terrorism is particularly widespread in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, in southern Serbia, means in the Pcinj district, and by the appearance of Wahhabi in the Raška area, and their common goal is to join them for hostile action aimed at destroying the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, we today have a situation where almost all foreign intelligence services, which have different tasks and interests, are present in Kosovo and Metohija. The most numerous is, of course, the CIA's contingent, through members of the GNI, Mossad, all the way to SHIK, the Albanian intelligence service. Kosovo's temporary institutions are also in the process of building their security structures. There's not only our security authorities in the cosmetian areas. In part, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia is present, but these are only offices in which applications for the issue of passports, ID cards, driver's licenses, vehicle registration and nothing more. The state has done nothing about returning its security services to Kosovo and Metohija. There have been attempts to appeal to the application of UN Resolution 1244, but unfortunately, it was unsuccessful. I don't remember hearing any of the officials calling for our membership within the Partnership for Peace, whose Serbia is a member, which allows us to return our security authorities. As long as this is the case, as long as there is no Serbian army and police, Serbian security services, as long as there is no return of the exiled Serbs, there will be no normal life in the cosmetian spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12919	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic appeared by the Rules of Procedure, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12920	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 101. I would like to inform the public, since I am an MP from the Kings, that Serbia's railway company in most Serbian cities is doing a complete reconstruction of railway buildings, so that so far buildings have been built in Vrnjačka Banja, Čačka and many other cities, Matarusko Banja, etc. These are very beautiful objects, which must have an adequate look, and the tendency is right now to bring these buildings into order. The situation in the King's cell building is such that the wet knot is closed by the decision of a sanitary inspection in the King. Serbia's railways have been ordered to urgently resuscitate that wet knot. The public should have information that a complete project has been done by the CIP, that the project has been approved by the Kirilo Savik Institute, that the reconstruction is already being implemented and that it will be completed very soon by December 10th. It may seem to someone that for these 39 squares, according to Vladan Batic, this is an overinvestment, but since a cell building in the Kingdom needs to be entered into a complete recovery, there are still some preparatory things to be done. Currently, around the wet knot there are 300 meters of complete installation of the water network, bringing, connecting to steam heating, the cell building is hundreds of meters away, then, the filters for the water network were introduced. The complete recovery of this wet knot will be according to top standards. Another newspaper, the management of the Serbian Railway Company, has also introduced wheelchairs for disabled people, and this project provides for special cabins to be provided for disabled persons in this wet knot and I do not see that there is anything controversial about it. However, these people should be provided with appropriate conditions if they are found in a cell building or in road transport, such as the railway cars of Serbia. The investment is justified and I am sure that such institutions as CIP and Kirilo Savic have approved these projects... And contractors, everything is transparent, clean, and MPs can get acquainted with this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12921	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in due time we will shorten our discussions, but we will say what is fundamental to this bill. The question arises: who are the persons who make up the National Security Council? Now a serious question is raised – where is the Director of Police here? Does he have anything to do with the security of this country? The police director has 10 administrations under direct control, one number of organisational units, 27 district units. Also, a very important thing, police directors are directly subordinated to Gendarmes, special anti-terrorism units, border police. Who puts these deliberately significant and professional security formations in second place at such a difficult time per state of Serbia? This is also seen in article 12 of this proposal, where the composition of the coordination bureau is talked about, but we'll talk about it later. It's in someone's best interest that this National Security Council doesn't deal with the issue of preserving national security. This can be concluded on the basis of an analysis of the individuals who make up this advice. Their only priority is the pursuit of Ratko Mladic, leading a guard from Ohio in Serbian barracks and playing tour guides to US pilots around Belgrade, to show them what their missiles have hit the capital. Why isn't the Republic Public Prosecutor in this council, where we need to act quickly, and the police and the prosecution, against terrorists, spies and other enemies of our country? There's no Director of Police or the Republic Public Prosecutor, but there's one in the so-called The co-ordination bureau. The simplest question for the creator of this law is – why are surrounded and marginalized professionals about security and through the functioning of the council? There's a reason, and it's important, and it's called NATO. She is unknown to Boris Tadic and his yellow and olive team in this advice on how police will react in case they kidnap Kosovo and Metohija while he plays the pacifist and plays Hare Krishna. Given the time, I'll cut the discussion short and say something else about Article 15. I would ask the author of the law what this first position means – the subordination and responsibility of the security service to the democratically elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia? Does this mean that this law stipulates that it is possible for some government in Serbia to be undemocratically elected? Who is it that will give judgment is someone elected to rule in a democratic or non-democratic way? Is this judge maybe Javier Solana, the American ambassador, Carla del Ponte or anyone else? Perhaps you don't think that non-democratic methods of conquering government should be applied, such as the use of banisters, sherps, stones, burning of the Assembly, television, organized theft of long pipes from police stations, breaking into the National Bank, Customs, etc.? This is a really funny feature, and it paints the burden of the 2000 Assembly's subconscious. This National Security Council will play an essential role in the future days that stand before our people and our country. There is no room for optimism with Boris Tadic. Someone obviously needs to take over the role of dying Serbia if there are unfavourable circumstances as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, but whoever intends to stand in the way of the people to defend the Serbian cradle first, Solana will be far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12923	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic and then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to us in the Serbian Parliament, it is clear to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that what we have before us today, which we are discussing, is not really what was meant to be in front of us right now. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law require that the Serbian Parliament adopt laws on security services before calling the presidential elections, not the document we have here today, which bears the name of the bill on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that the authorities are in a hurry, or at least for once in the power, that the sooner they call the elections, the sooner they try to see some form, allegedly, fulfilled to call those elections. In such a situation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has chosen a free topic and unfortunately has not answered that free topic either. In fact, what is ahead of us could also be taken and seriously considered to have arranged some of the elements related to the functioning of Serbia's security services. Such a law defining the basics for the functioning of security services in Serbia had to define, firstly, what security services exist in Serbia; to define their responsibilities, to distinguish them, not to overlap in their functioning; then, to fully and precisely define the authorities and bodies that operate these services, to clearly resolve how our services can co-operate with the same services of other countries and, ultimately, to fully regulate the supervision of the work of these services. This proposal is very superficially mentioned here, has not entered into the essence of these problems and has not answered these questions. Because of the time I have at my disposal, I will now interrupt, and I will point out in detail the remarks that I have and which we as the SRS have on this proposal when the amendments to this proposal come under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12925	Thank you. Given that time has been spent to discuss all MPs' groups, I am concluding a principled search. Before the break, the word has been given by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12926	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've only read literally what these decisions say, but of course I've checked. It is not true that the train station in the King’s station is several hundred meters away. It's not at the second train station, it's at the same station. It's a maximum distance of 30, 40 to 50 meters, and when it gets out of the train a dozen meters later. Secondly, this information says to detail what was to be done. It says what's been done so far and what's left to be done. The illustrations do, it is mentioned, that internal bulkhead walls, reinforced concrete panel, lowered ceiling of waterproof casts, including access to and cabins for disabled faces, and writes what has been done. None of what I mentioned has been done and it is not stated that it should be done, it is reportedly still going to be done, to install the sanitary facilities and install the appropriate electro-galanteria. One more thing, that it is 100 or 200 meters away and that a new water and sewerage network is put on, that's a few thousand euros, even if that's the case, and that's not the case. All in all, I repeat again, this could cost up to 7,000 euros, not 70,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12927	Srdjan Spasojevic, the answer, and then really stop talking about the King's toilets.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12928	Mr. Batic, what the president said would really be a turn, but I have to tell you that you misread what I said. So a total of between 300 and 500 meters of new sewers was made. I didn't say how far the bathroom is from the station building because I've lived in that town for 40 years and I know how far it is. So new filters have been installed; fully reconstructed and electroinstalled and for the introduction of steam heating, and the complete sewerage network has been done. So, if anything, Mr. Batic, was controversial... Well, we showed this document in order to make sure of what was done. So no one was hiding anything here. It's very correct on our side, we showed you, we gave you this paper to look at and see for yourself. I repeat again, the project was done by the CIP, approved by Kirilo Savic, and it is precisely who are the performers of these works. I really wouldn't have anything to say about this anymore, and I think we've been transparent enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12929	Break. Resume work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12930	We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DEFENCE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Dejan Perjanić, Zoran Krasić, Stefan Zankov, Aleksandar Martinović, Milan Avramović, Petar Jojić, Momir Marković, Miletić Mihajlović, Igor Bečić, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Veroljub Arsić and Nenad Canak, as well as the amendment of the Defence and Security Committee. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee is, pursuant to Article 146, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as the untimely amendments of the National MPs Radovan Radovanovic to the article. 2, 10th and 29th and Professor of Dr Neboja Rangelovic on Article 4. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12931	We were fellow Albianic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, patiently, waiting longer than time usual for a break and, after the break has passed, asking you to explain to us who will attend the session on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No one in the building noticed Dragan Sutanovac, whether at some camp in Ohio, where he is, I really don't know, but we can't start a debate on this agenda without an authorised representative. Even this Covic's ex-major, Jovicic, who enters, means nothing. So, which minister, who represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The Law on Defence, the Law on the Army, are laws that not only stem from the Constitution, but have drawn great attention to the public and the honorable officers, as well as those who because of such a minister, such former defence minister Boris Tadic, and, unfortunately, such president of the state have stepped out of their service, which willingly, which is because of the way those who do not care about the military, and these are current officials - the President of the Republic, the Minister of Defence and Ponoš, as well as all those who systematically destroy the reputation of the Serbian army. Therefore, Mr Albianic, we, the MPs of the SRS, have prepared ourselves for this debate because of the amendments and because of the very important importance that all citizens attach to the importance of our, Serbian armies and to the defence of our country, but it is pointless, although I know that you will listen carefully and follow what we are going to say and how firm and strong our arguments are. I just want you to explain to us why you started the session when you see that there is no mandated representative of the motionor, or no representative of the government? Mr. Zoran Krasic, whose amendment is first in line to the law on defence, as well as all MPs, Serbian radicals, do not have an adequate talker in the hall. Pro form works, Dragan Sutanovac thinks he is an adequate talker because, behold, it is an unfortunate set of circumstances, the defence minister, which is terrible and devastating for both officers and for every citizen of Serbia. But we would have to accept that as a de facto state, until circumstances change and he leaves the post of secretary of defense. Like this, he tends to make diplomatic incidents and scandals. I just heard about something that happened a few days ago at the Italian embassy, but, with all that, it's a mess and it's DS's responsibility. As an MP, neither I nor any Serbian radical, we cannot accept that we are supposed to have a serious defence debate, about the military, and we do not have a minister here who will answer our questions. We've received the government's opinion, you can find it there, in a member of the Rules of Procedure, even some void, and you can say -- well, it's not necessary at this point, or it's prevented, but it doesn't justify us in front of the citizens. Regardless of our opposing political views, I am only a part of what, both politically and professionally, presented what I think of current Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. A few days ago and as she followed the public, I know by the calls I received, probably you and other fellow Serbian radicals, from officers who followed the session, when we talked about the law in principle. You saw for yourself that we didn't have much time on individual solutions, because there was simply no time. Now, when we can talk openly about this, with our really strong arguments, we need a talker from the government of the Republic of Serbia, someone who will actively participate in the discussion with us, so that we can convince the unbelieving Tome, and they are few in Serbia, that we Serbian radicals are right and that the military and its reputation can only return to the shift of power and the choice of the real president of the state, as well as the change at the head of the General Staff, which Mr Nikolic will do as soon as he enters the presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12932	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic, for these remarks. The government's opinion was delivered, as I said at the beginning. Of course, I will also read the notice that all of you MPs have received: 'The National Assembly of Government has submitted to the proposal for a defence law, a bill on the Serbian Army. With this in mind, I would like to inform you that the representatives of the Government in the National Assembly are designated by Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and President Vojislav Kostunica. ''So, Mr Markovic's arrival in the Assembly is expected. Of course, the appropriate conversators are MPs, because MPs decide to accept or reject amendments, and the government has already declared itself, so I really ask that we work on the agenda, not to waste valuable time, and the minister will certainly arrive. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12933	I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, as long as there's going to be a farce from this assembly, from making decisions, from adopting laws and amendments, because the government is obliged to sit here. The minister is obliged, because he can, and has the right and authority to accept some of the amendments. This is literally, first, abuse, second, humiliation of the National Assembly. If the assistants from the ministry come to us, they can sit and listen; they have no right to accept the amendment, they have no right to make objections, nor to come out here and explain to the MPs why the government does not accept certain amendments. I propose, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I demand that the chairman rest until one of the ministers comes and sits here and responds to the MPs, because these laws are among the most important laws that this state is making.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12934	Please, let's work on the amendments. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12935	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have a serious problem in every respect, but you must understand that the Assembly cannot agree to everything, and should not, whether it is MPs or MPs of the opposition. In fact, you don't care, you're on one side of the position, and on the other side, you're in opposition, the position of the other side, so your position is extremely difficult. Mr. Chairman, especially when it comes to Minister Dragan Sutanovac, we cannot agree to any agreements, because he stepped down the agreements and a correct stance of the SRS two days ago, when we discussed the law in principle. It is in a difficult way, to be nice, to humiliate, and in some way to show the MPs to the SRS that it is not worthy that we are entering any agreement because of it, and as representatives of Parliament, it has brought you into an extremely problematic situation, by the way he ended his speech. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, make sure you do not violate the Rules of Procedure to ensure the presence of the minister. I suppose the minister is not afraid to come before the MPs. I suppose he can't wait to come and explain everything he thinks he's saying, especially when it comes to amendments, or did you forbid Mr. Minister from coming to the O.R.?- I'm sorry. There's something. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, ensure the minister's presence, and until you provide it, take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12936	Calm down, Miss Jovanovic. So, the government's authorised representative is also Minister, Mr Milan Markovic, whom we expect to see soon. So don't take a break, but let us work in a normal way. The minister will arrive, and don't, I really beg you. I have a good will to work and I ask you to show a gesture of good faith. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, the session was held on Monday, and you chaired the National Assembly session when I pointed out that Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac would do everything possible not to be in the National Assembly Hall and not to suffer criticism and appeal at his expense by the MPs of the SRS. Then you promised before all MPs that Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac would sit in the hall the whole time, as long as the debate on the defence bill and the proposal for a law on the military, and when you said - all the time, it probably refers to both the debate in principle and the debate on amendments. I have shown you that the government wanted to provide itself with a maneuvering space, by setting up some trustees who, instead of the Secretary of Defense, should sit in the National Assembly Hall, and these creditors are only clay pigeons, can only sit and listen, but they cannot participate in the discussion and cannot answer the questions of the MPs. Now the government has gone one step further, and now it doesn't satisfy even the trustees who sit and remain silent. Now she has appointed a minister who has nothing to do with the defence and the military. We, Mr Albianic, have gone over the fact that the draft law on the President of the Republic and the bill on elections for the President of the Republic has been explained by Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, although there is no fundamental connection between the state administration and local self-government with the President of the Republic or with the election for the President of the Republic. We have gone beyond that and we have shown an act of goodwill, but now that the amendments of the MPs of the people regarding the defence and the Serbian Army are being addressed by the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, it is a lakrdija, it is a farce and we, the MPs of the SRS, do not want to agree to that. And you, Mr. Albianic, stick to your promises Monday and take what is in your power to show up at the National Assembly Hall, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who is the only one authorized to answer the questions of MPs, or comment on why the government has not adopted their amendments. Mr. Milan Markovic, indeed, has nothing to do with this matter and it is funny that the government has gone so far in humiliating the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12938	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. So I'm going to remind you of Article 194 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure - The Government determines the members of the Government who represent it on certain issues on the agenda of the Assembly, i.e. at the session of its committee. It is clear that the government determines which ministers are coming, including Minister Milan Markovic. I hope we understand each other, but you're here challenging the government's proposal, and that can't be done by the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12939	Art. 100 to 104. We have a bill on defence, which says -- government representatives in the National Assembly are designated Dragan Sutanovac and so on. We didn't get another proposal. If the government wants to have girls for everyone, then let them change the Government Act. Mr. Markovic, Minister, let him answer whenever he wants, but you can't do that. Let's make a deal with the minister to discuss it, and the minister doesn't, or they want to change it, or they send it to anyone. It's a disrespect of the assembly. The government could have determined from the beginning the X-Secretary, the Ipsylon, for any law. If it wasn't him, we'll accept it, because he suggested it, but he suggested, first, one, then, second, then, third. It really doesn't make sense. I wonder how you accept that. It's a disrespect for all the MPs. I guess the minister in question didn't have the obligation so much that he couldn't make it. His greatest obligation is to be in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12940	So, I'm setting a break by 4:00. We expect one of the authorised ministers to come. Before we take a break, based on article 85, we'll continue the work after 18 hours, because we have to work effectively. I'm setting a break to 15 hours and 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12941	We're continuing our work. The word is Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, this is where someone seems to have made an effort to help our army and the Secretary of Defense, so they've contributed certain war funds. I don't know if it's okay if it's MIG 29 standing here, I think it's remounted, so since the minister isn't here, I'd ask you to first hand it over to him so that, exactly in accordance with your pledge, he can use all the resources available. Mr. President, I understand the situation in which you are president of the Parliament and I understand the situation of the Democratic Party, or DS MPs in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but you must understand that we are representatives of the opposition and that we cannot be your shoulder to cry about, that all the problems you have are putting on us. I know that in no way do you contribute, or try to avoid the congregation being humiliated in this way, as it humbles itself. We were prepared to work on today's agenda, regardless of the minister's presence. By counting on the problems he has caused you, and which he has given you, we have accepted the Minister of General Practice, without wanting to personally insult Mr Markovic in any way, because I understand his position, but you must understand that, unfortunately, you have ministers who cannot be introduced into the Serbian Parliament. We can't take responsibility for that, because we've been witnesses, despite your attempts, that you haven't managed to contain the Secretary of Defense. We were ready to wait for Mr Markovic and start discussing the amendments, I don't know how Mr Markovic would participate in this debate. I have no doubt that he can and as an MP has participated in many debates, but I suppose that, however, he also takes care of himself in some way and will not bring himself into the situation in which he would have been, related to certain amendments or questions of the MPs, especially, if we remember a session from a time ago when he had to defend the laws written by someone else, to listen to those unbluded explanations, etc. Mr. President, I must tell you that in the follow-up of today's session we will be asking parliamentary questions, because we think it is much more useful, given that there is no adequate representative and that you are too late. We gave you academic 15 minutes, actually 20, the sequel was scheduled for 15.55 hours, and we started at 16.20. Don't be angry, no matter how much I know you're not comfortable with us continuing the assembly session on parliamentary matters, or leaving tomorrow at 10 o'clock with a follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12943	I suggest that after we hear from MP Miletic Mihajlovic, we all go get some rest. The assembly does work really long, working from 10 a.m. to 10 o'clock in the evening, so tomorrow at 10 a.m., we can continue to discuss the amendments, respecting all of this, all of your arguments. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12944	Thank you, Mr. President. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, paragraph 1, which reads - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course that goes for Mr. Vice President, Mr. Albianic, who led the session before you, Mr. President. When it turns out that there are no conditions for continuing the session, with some MPs from the DS shouting – extend time, extend time, in one theatrical way he announced it, with applause from the same MPs. Yes, Albianic. So, I don't think that that's how we should behave here and that we need more respect between us and co-operation, because we work together. The law ahead of us was discussed in principle and in particular. With all due respect, Minister Milan Markovic, we, however, believe, from the SPS, is a real talker on these issues, on these amendments, Mr Sutanovac. Why? Because there are times when we need to ask certain questions relating to amendments and it really is unnecessary to come up with some debate where we can't have a competent answer. I say, with all due respect, Minister Markovic. On the other hand, if the work of the National Assembly is extended after 18 hours, then it is necessary to use all the time in that regular hour, which means the full capacity of time in the afternoon and afternoon, from 15 o'clock, and so on. If you from the ruling structure and from the government haven't created conditions to work since 15 hours, and then, with your guilt, because of the absence of conditions, we delay the debate by an hour or two, then it really doesn't make sense to humiliate the National Assembly and bring MPs into a position to work after 18 hours, and we don't work in regular working hours. I don't think that really makes any sense, and that should be taken care of. Mr. President, I am asking you, on behalf of the SPS MPs' club, to create conditions in the future to make the most of the time we have at our disposal. We're willing to work over time, but not in this way, to get into a situation where we don't think we respect each other enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12945	Vice President Albianic's reply. I just want to say one thing. It's not easy to organize this intense work and you have to understand it. It's not easy to organize it in such a short time. I think we all agree that neither I nor any of the vice presidents of the National Assembly are to blame, nor are you to blame for the fact that we are in a position to have such short deadlines - until the obligations imposed by the law are fulfilled. Please continue to have an understanding of the situation in which we are, and I will try to, indeed, preserve the dignity of the National Assembly in each of its segments, among other things, and to ensure adequate representation of the Government when it comes to defence, both in terms of the law and of your amendments. Here you go, Mr. Albianic. After that, really, we break up and move on tomorrow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12946	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mihajlovic, as far as my presidency is concerned, I work exclusively by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a right to extend work. It's common these days to extend our work due to a large number of amendments, because we want to complete certain laws in time, and that's one thing. As you know, I have informed all MPs about this, you have received a written notice - that the authorised representative for this agenda point is Mr Milan Markovic, Minister. I have informed you that Mr Milan Markovic will come to the assembly session and have asked us to work, according to the fact that the minister will come. So, it's simply a situation where the minister found himself, to travel to the very building of the Assembly. I thought there was a normal tolerance threshold between us, that we could work in this way, with mutual respect and the fact that I've informed you right, which is evident, because the minister is present at this session. I also support the President's efforts to create a normal relationship with each other. So, even those of us who chair, we don't want to make any violence at the chair, or in any other way, that doesn't suit each other. That's why I support this way and this flexibility in terms of continuing this session. But we have to have mutual understanding and mutual agreement that that's how we do it, really, in that business and in that human sense -- that we help each other, that we do it more effectively. It's the essence of our work and our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12947	Thank you. If you really think so, Mr. Michaelovich, go ahead. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12948	I thank you, Mr. President, and I apologize for perhaps holding back this way or wasting my time. So, I do not dispute the right of the chairman to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, manage the work of the Assembly and I do not dispute the fact that he has given an explanation, as regards Mr Markovic. Besides, we didn't even react to that fact at that point. I'm merely contesting the way the work is extended, the moment it applauds and when it is encouraged in one way that is not adequate to the right relationship -- extend time, extend time, then applaud it, and you declare that time is being extended. In any case, at that moment, we are in a position to react on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, for it offends the dignity of the National Assembly in such a way. Then you should have warned the MPs concerned who applauded or threw them at the moment. I say again, on behalf of the SPS, that we will not obstruct the work. We would indeed like to make a contribution to fruitful work. Of course, we're the opposition and we're here to criticise, but I'm asking you to use time to the full and full capacity, not with interruptions, because you didn't provide conditions for normal work. Of course we're trying to understand each other in this sense, but this is how we can cooperate and make our contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-05-0.u12949	We will continue our work tomorrow, at 10pm, by amendment to Mr. Zoran Krasic's 9th. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 122 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga has come forward, and let MP Zoran Krasic prepare for the amendment to Article 9.
