ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4646	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find the session to be attended by a 131-nation MP. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Vukkovic, Slobodan Gavrilovic and Nenad Bogdanovic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Saradics in South-Eastern Europe You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. I remind you, according to Article 149a point 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 37 minutes; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – one hour, 16 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes; the parliamentary group G17 plus – 22 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS – 19 minutes; the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party – 13 minutes; the parliamentary group of minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - seven minutes; the Vojvodjanski MPs - LSV, SVM - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 149a. Article 3 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. Does the proposing representative, Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? The word has an interior minister, Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4647	Dear President, the esteemed MPs, today is before you the Convention on Police Cooperation, which should be ratified. Before I say anything about the essence of the Convention itself, I'd like to say a few words about how it was created. The draft draft of this convention was launched in mid-2005 by signing the Memorandum of Understanding in Vienna on 22 June. Albania, BiH, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania and the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro attended. The initiator of this Convention is the Republic of Austria, which currently chaired the European Union. What is essential, this is the first convention that in one serious way regulates mutual police co-operation and determines how countries in the region can co-operate. The main motive for the conclusion of this convention on Southeast European police co-operation is to establish a legal framework for co-operation on certain issues from the work of the competent police authorities. The implementation of this Convention should contribute to further strengthening and expanding police co-operation with countries in the region, as well as further improving regional security and represents a significant step towards bringing the European Union closer. Also, the Convention provides a strong legal basis for the joint work of signatories countries in the affairs of countering all forms of crime. So, it regulates areas of co-operation and exchange of police information, exchange of liaison officers, witness protection, joint training, transfer to other people's territory during prosecution of criminal offences, cross-border surveillance, controlled delivery, data exchange, cooperation in border security and the formation of mixed border patrols. The convention essentially regulates everything called operational co-operation between two or more police in this region. At the same time, the Convention should also ensure the coordination of cross-border police co-operation in the region, using the provisions of the Schengen Convention. The Convention will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of national legislation, with additional implementing agreements, i.e. bilateral agreements between countries to which these issues would be regulated, to be concluded for the application of certain members of the Convention, such as the prosecution of foreign territory and the enforcement of surveillance on foreign territory. The convention is open to all countries that want to join it, and also anyone can withdraw from this convention at any time, with written notice. So that's what I'm going to end up with, the essence of the Convention is close operational co-operation by the police, and it aims to, as organized crime is internationalised and becomes transnational, and so co-operation between the police is open, so that it can be prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4648	Thank you. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS is MP Petar Jojic. Also, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Elvira Kovac, elected from the SVM-Josef Kasa election list. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Elvira Kovac. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We're moving on. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic, in front of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to confirm the Convention on Police Co-operation in Southeastern Europe, the proposal should have provided the MPs with insight and preparation for this debate, the rules governing police co-operation in other countries, in parallel to the legal rules that other countries have regulated this highly sensitive legal matter in their countries, and above all it was to be delivered to us on the basis of the following: 1. How, inter alia, police co-operation is regulated by legal documents between and within the framework of European institutions, i.e. European Union countries; 2. As it is regulated and arranged between the European Community and the UK; 3. How and which document is regulated between the European Community and the United States; 4. How police co-operation between the European Community and other South American countries has been regulated; 5. How police co-operation between the United States and the countries of South Europe, i.e. South America and 6. How police co-operation was arranged between the United States and the countries of Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, Russia and Belgium. The Serbian Radical Party notes this and points out this in particular, as it is not certain that the United States, Great Britain, Germany, France and other countries, which hold to the serious security of their country, will allow foreign intelligence services to operate in one country as they think and how it suits them. What should be pointed out, i.e. the Serbian Radical Party, also notes that we do not know that bilateral co-operation between the above states is regulated, and in particular, how bilateral co-operation between US police and other countries, Great Britain and Ireland is regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party believes that along with this draft law on police co-operation, these documents on bilateral co-operation should also be delivered. When considering the Law on Confirming the Convention on Police Co-operation in Southeast Europe, as well as the proposal submitted to the MPs, I would like to point out that this draft law on police co-operation with the countries of Southeast Europe applies to countries – the Republic of Albania, imagine, as a confidant of this Convention, as provided for in Article 38. Proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, we need to conclude the Convention and an agreement with the enemy state, which grabs 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party does not accept and condemn it. This needs to be regulated in another way. And no one dared at this legal-political moment to ask and regulate this issue in this way, nor to create friendly ties with enemy country number one towards Serbia. This Convention, as the interior minister pointed out, is also the conclusion of the Agreement in Vienna. However, it refers to some small countries in the environment, but serious states, which keep to safety, are not covered by this convention, so that Serbia, as a state, will keep to its security, sovereignty, integrity and security of its citizens, is: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia-Montenegro. In the opinion of the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, it is absolutely unacceptable because it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the provisions of the Criminal Code and other regulations of the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of the bill directly endanger the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Due to such a requirement, set by the European Community, Serbia entered the First World War with Austria-Hungarian in 1914, because the Austro-Ugars wanted to conduct an investigation into the territory of the Serbian state, at that time, as a modern state. However, the then government and the then government did not allow it to be run by Austro-Hungarian agents. This bill is in direct contrast with the following provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: – It is in direct contrast with the provision of Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because this bill does not provide protection for citizens, Serbs, abroad. The Republic of Serbia, under the provisions of this member, is obliged to protect the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. This is normised by the above-mentioned member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we can get into a situation where someone can be found under these circumstances. That's why the SRS points out this specifically. – The norms of this Convention on Police Cooperation directly endanger human rights and freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 The proposal for a convention, imagine, brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens of Serbia, 'the permit to stay is the approval of any kind'. What does that mean? Approval to enter the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence and the barracks of any, and at the same time, not an authorisation for hunting and fishing. In Article 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised and guaranteed the physical and psychological integrity that is envisaged, and also, according to the Constitution, uninjured. With this provision of our Constitution, no one can be subjected to medical and scientific examinations without their free consent. However, the provisions and norms proposed in this Convention allow for the possibility of medical examinations being carried out without the consent of a particular person. – The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the protection of personal data, and the proposal for a convention does not guarantee that numerous abuses in the processing of personal data in the electronic system will not occur. – The provisions of this Convention are in direct contrast with the provisions of Article 27. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the right to freedom and security. In the position of 3 of this article, it is prescribed: "Anyone who is deprived of liberty has the right to appeal to the court, who is required to decide urgently on the legality of the deprivation of freedom and to order release if the deprivation of freedom was illegal." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the proposal for this Convention there is no provision for a citizen or any person to complain about the decision of every state authority, and our Constitution provides that every person and every citizen of our country has the right to lodge a complaint or any other remedy against the decision of any state authority. However, there is neither legal nor constitutional protection for the persons and citizens to whom it could be applied. – This Convention is also contrary to the provision of Article 29. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it does not guarantee additional rights in the event of a lack of freedom without a court ruling. Namely, pursuant to Article 29. The Constitution shall be guaranteed to the person who is deprived of his freedom without a decision of the court to have the right to say nothing, not to be heard without the presence of the defender whom he or she chooses, or the defender who will provide him with legal aid free of charge, without the decision of the court of the sea and without delay, and no later than 48 hours at the latest, shall be handed over to the competent court or released. I note this because national legislation will be applied in accordance with this proposed Convention. However, the proposed and adopted, and delayed for application, the Code of Criminal Procedure and how it differs and is in direct contrast to certain provisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, this convention is also contrary to the provision of Article 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates detention and deprivation of liberty, then Article 31. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the duration of detention. When it comes to this convention that the authorities that follow or drive a person and want to arrest him have the right, even those who come from abroad to cross our border, to deprive such a person and to hold him for six hours, and that time does not count on him, to be handed over to the competent local state authorities, and above all to the judicial authorities, in the time between 00.00 and 09.00 hours. Which is absolutely unacceptable. Every face-restraint on the spot, either on the street, anywhere else, if someone kept him, he practically deprived him of his freedom. In addition, this convention provides for, even carrying and using handcuffs. Well, you know what, in that case, we can't accept that in such a comfortable way these questions are regulated by one of our regulations, which we need, so perhaps irresponsiblely, comprehensively to accept, and what happens tomorrow, nobody's counting on it right now. The proposal for a convention is also contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, particularly when it comes to detention and when it comes to the powers of internal affairs authorities. Articles 142, 143, 144, 145 and 146 of these provisions and powers of members of the internal affairs bodies relate to powers that exclusively belong to members of the security authorities in our country, and above all to internal affairs. The Serbian Radical Party is most vigorously opposed to the adoption of this proposal for a law confirming the Convention. The Central American Intelligence Service, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, you know, has had 486 secret flights for the last two years, because CIA members and some countries of Europe, Asia and others, South America and Africa, have taken citizens to private prisons, and as an example, I cite Macedonia and Romania. We cannot allow the CIA to come to us and that the CIA here regulates our security and our situation in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Convention, the most problematic is one circumstance and one possibility being introduced and one institution, that is to provide simulated legal services through a secret agent. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, giving you the opportunity to engage an undercover investigator is mostly a secret agent for you. The most dangerous thing, when it comes to a secret agent, who isn't solved enough, is the question of whether the undercover investigator is responsible for the crimes he commits in his covert spy and agent work. The law on criminal proceedings adopted and delayed its application in 2006, has further compromised and wrongly asked. From the fact that the Law forbids only a covert investigator to encourage or provoke the execution of a crime, it does not regulate the question of whether he can commit crimes in his work as provided for in Article 153(1). The 2006 Code of Criminal Procedure, whose application has been delayed, therefore, results in a lack of responsibility for criminal acts, indicates the logic of things, i.e. the essence of the work of a covert investigator. He infiltrates a criminal group, imagine, as a member of it, and logically, he must commit crimes in that capacity, because he would otherwise be discovered. It seems to me that the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which must be applied, should this Convention be adopted, must be in accordance with this Convention and the Convention with the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Convention in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The new CAP appears to be at that position, although it does not explicitly regulate the issue, this stems from the provision of Article 150(2), which says - that in the event that the undercover investigator commits a criminal offence, the provisions of the Criminal Code that regulate the necessary provision and the ultimate urgency will be applied. What about the other crimes if he commits, and he didn't act in the execution of the crime, at the time of the crime, to appeal to the necessary defense and to the ultimate necessity. What we're going to do about those crimes he's committed, and he hasn't been able to defend himself and an emergency. Unfortunately, nothing has been solved by that. Calling for the necessary defense and the ultimate necessity is always possible and not necessary, even completely pointlessly predicting it. The problem is, if the conditions for the necessary defence and extreme emergency are not met, and this will, in practice, be a common case. Whether the undercover investigator will be responsible for such crimes is not resolved. It is also possible to accept from that wording of the Code that the covert investigator is not responsible for these crimes, which seems to have been the intention of the legislator, i.e. the legislator, which he could not clearly express, i.e. to clearly show. What is important, I would also point out, first of all, if the law prohibits an easier case of inciting a crime, then it is logical that the ban also applies to a serious case of committing crimes. Because the execution within itself logically includes both encouragement. Another more important argument is that, on the basis of the execution and the existence of a criminal offence, they must be explicitly taxed by law, in law, or in this Convention, which is the case with predicting and prescribing the necessary defence and extreme necessity. According to Article 15 of that Convention, the application of controlled deliveries, which is now possible only for the works of organised crime, provided for in Article 504. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which I note, must be applied in the course of enforcement if this Convention is adopted, may be the illegal transport of intoxicating drugs, weapons and stolen goods and other cases arising from the conduct of criminal acts or are a means of committing criminal acts, is a condition that it would be significantly difficult to detect these crimes and deprive the persons who did so, according to Article 154. Code of Criminal Procedure Paragraph 4. At the same time, the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which I must appeal to because the Convention will once again have to comply with national legislation, continues to establish and predict the standards of controlled deliveries under which it applies only to the illegal transport of those things. The controlled delivery shall be made according to the new solution of Article 154. In fact, the Code of Criminal Procedure can apply to any other criminal offence, because the Convention here does not say taxation, the Convention is not exactly defined which crimes under our national criminal law are only organised crime. Further, automatic-computer search of personal and other data. Ladies and gentlemen, this is inadmissible. Imagine now that you have CIA and other intelligence services, and thank God, we have them as advisors in this country and in all the institutions of our system, that they still have the right and that they are allowed to search all the data, even those data that have nothing to do with organised crime or with crime at all or with terrorism. In the proposal for a convention, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 regulates the issue of personal data processing. You have: finding, consulting, using, detecting by sending, spreading or making available otherwise, sorting or combining, blocking, deleting or destroying. You have everything here, except there's still no way to determine based on these methods, only there are no sexual methods to apply in this bill. When I said this last sentence, it primarily refers to personal data, the number of persons based on multiple factors, physical, physiological, mental, which refers primarily to his economic and cultural or social identity. So I'm free to say there's still a sexual identity missing here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4650	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Jojic. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I give my word to MP Rajko Baralic, and let Dragan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4651	Good afternoon, Mr. President, long time gone, good afternoon, Mr. Minister, MPs, good day, dear colleague, welcome to Serbia's Parliament's first working day. Serbia's parliament is not as ugly as the newspaper says, it's a good place. Crime is a universal and global category. Unfortunately, it is not divided into crime by perpetrators, by nationality, by skin color, by race, by ethnic or other principle, or by God by sex, as we have had the opportunity to hear here. Unfortunately, it is one of mankind's greatest monsters and everything a country can do to prevent criminal behavior of anyone who has such manners or such a need, or if it is simply the way he lives, it should, in a certain sense, be supported, in which, of course, it should always take care that they are citizens of one state, even when criminals, more sacred than other citizens of other countries, are criminals or not. What is guaranteed by the Constitution must be ensured for all citizens, the full level of protection, the multi-stage legal protection, and it must be ensured that the people to whom these measures relate also have a treatment that is characterized by human dignity. If that wasn't the case, then we wouldn't be doing our job right. We have had the opportunity to check, to see, to make sure that criminals co-operate on those issues that we didn't think were possible, that the countries that are the most angry opponents and the peoples who are the most involved have criminals who co-operate with each other, enormously rich, just criticising those other countries, peoples or their policies, and that are, above all, criminal affairs, I apologize that these are businesses, related to drug trafficking, white slavery, sex trafficking, arms trafficking, to various other forms of crime against which every civilized society should become and to make its contribution. I also have some reservations when it comes to the proposed text of this convention, but unfortunately it cannot be changed by amendments. So this is either the principle or take it or leave it. There would be several important questions that could motivate us to reject this, but there are a few that motivate us to accept this. Allow me, and please, President, that you do not take this time away from me, I will quote Article 5. Convention – 'The volume of the exchange of information'. Excuse me, I won't be long. Point ''(1) During co-operation in order to prevent, detect and investigate criminal offences, particularly in the field of organised crime, the official authorities of the parties shall exchange at the request of the following information: (a) information on individuals involved in organised crime, information on links between suspects and suspects in connection with the execution of criminal acts, their knowledge of the structure of criminal organisations and groups, as well as on typical patterns of conduct of suspects and persons suspected or suspected groups; information on criminal acts in preparation, attempted or committed crimes, in particular on time, place and type of criminal offence, details of victims or damaged property, information on specific circumstances and relevant legal provisions, if necessary for the purpose of prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences. ''This is a very serious formulation and as far as I'm concerned, this is a very important reason to think about this Convention, and I am adding, in particular, a point (2) of this article that says: ''When receiving information using special methods, the official authorities of the Contracting Parties cooperate in accordance with their national legislation. Contracting Parties shall undertake to provide at least the same data protection standard as those prescribed by the provisions of national laws of their countries. ''So, here it is very precise what is going to happen and in some sense doubts have been removed that give arguments to those who believe that national legislation here is inferior to the proposed text of the Convention. We can, of course, argue about this, make arguments like this or such, but I believe that this fear, which today has been said, that we are already in one or another way long ago the subject of dealing with various agent associations, groups or individuals, this does not apply to it. I am not happy that Serbia today is almost without any control, and I apologize, Mr. Minister, to the various agents, representatives of various intelligence services, which in some ways directly affects certain personal solutions in the highest bodies of our country, but this does not apply. This applies to something completely different. This is an attempt to, on condition, sanction the worst possible and the simplest criminals, to help discover what they're dealing with, to prevent these countries that would sign this and who have signed it, to have fewer problems, to have less of what none of us normally want to exist. So I don't see anything particularly bad in this, which would compromise our country's position in some sense in front of our public. On the contrary, I think that the signing of this convention could improve the situation of our citizens, because criminal ways by signing such a convention could, in a sense, be easier to control and criminals of all forms and colors could be properly sanctioned. Of course there's always arguments for and against, it'd be ugly if it didn't happen. The SPS parliamentary group with the SPS Security Council will have further consultations on the proposed act, and before the voting day comes, we will plead on this issue. We will measure well what is offered in this Convention which could possibly be compromising for our country and our national legislation, and what is what could in some sense prevent criminal behaviour of persons who, of course, do not think well of the citizens of Romania or of the citizens of Albania or of the citizens of Serbia or of any other state or of its citizens. Because we've had a thousand times to make sure that we're uncompromising, that there's no crime, that their actions are terrible, that the means that have never been chosen are the only ones that can serve the purpose, which is: to go through tons of drugs, to organize the sale of living people, to endanger in any other way the fundamental human and other rights of citizens in these countries. So I'm asking for an understanding of this document, because I don't want to see everything bad in everything. On the contrary, I think there are issues that we can agree on, no matter what our position is in this House. Of course we're not happy about how things work around here today. Of course, some questions could be a lot better settled than they are today. I honestly believe that this will happen, because it seems to me that every time a criminal gets arrested, a number of people can take a breather. If there's more of them on the other side of the lock, it'll be a reliable law, so people who don't deal with crime will live happier. If that wasn't the case, then we'd be in a terrible delusion of what actually is our basic goal and fundamental function of politics. Mr. Minister, although you didn't deserve it personally, I have to say, and I'll explain to you later why, it's possible to support this, of course, with the consultations that we're going to do the way I said, because whoever can contribute to the reduction of crime, or the efficiency of the services involved in criminals, he needs to do this, this would be one of the auxiliary legal tools for that to happen. So we'll come forward just before the voting day how we're going to vote on the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4652	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Todorovic, and let MP Rajko Djuric be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it seems that you are not in a position to ensure that at least when you are a rapporteur, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia attends. There is not even a head of the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group for you, it seems that there is no patience or that it cannot go beyond this convention that you have proposed to the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, whenever such material is obtained, not only of this kind, but of every material, it is necessary to try to get into the motives, which is why a convention like this is proposed to the National Assembly. What if this convention is adopted in the National Assembly, it will be good for our citizens, or for our country? We ask one basic question – what is the state's service, among other things, is the state serving to protect its citizens, not only in its own country, but also if they are out of that state? I suppose it is the obligation of the state to protect its citizens and not to put any of its actions into a situation that some of our citizens can in any way be harassed or implemented any measure against it without our country granting approval and preventing it. Unfortunately, we lose our sovereignty slowly and irrevocably. We began to lose him by yet adopting the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. This is Resolution 1244, how can I teach you once to remember one thing, Russia is completely its position and its position is based on Resolution 1244. You also had a chance to hear from the Chinese ambassador to the Security Council yesterday, which also supports the Russian stance and insists on Resolution 1244. But let's get back to the proposed convention. You are proposing to adopt a Convention on Co-operation in Southeast Europe between the Republic of Albania, BiH, the Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Romania and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. First, Romania joined the EU, as well as the CEFTA Agreement, it will not be a full signator of the convention. But what are the motives for us to sign something with BiH and Albania? Are these friendly states towards us? Are you sure that Albania and BiH, I mean the Federation, I don't mean Republika Srpska, because you already have some co-operation with them, whether it will allow anything that is likely to insist that Serbia implements this agreement. I'm sure he won't. How can you be convinced that BiH will do anything when it sues our state in front of The Hague, how can you expect it? It'll obstruct in every way. Have you done anything for crimes committed against Serbs so far, for criminals known to be the name and last name of the crimes committed and how many people have killed? You had a chance, among other things, to watch the movie "Truth", where you could see those criminals in the movie. Have you done anything to bring these people into the process in their own countries? You didn't do anything. Do nothing when it comes to Serbian interests, as you do nothing for our citizens in The Hague. You're not interested in helping them, but that's why you're carrying out all the UN Attorney's orders. Have you done anything about the information that 34 people have so far given court-certified statements that the Hague investigators have been blackmailed, bribed to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj? Is there a more serious crime than that? Have you taken steps to see if it is true or not, so if it is not to take appropriate measures, if it is to take appropriate measures. No, you know it's true, because you know the methods of the Hague investigators. After all, we had the opportunity to see especially in the process against Slobodan Milosevic, how the Hague prosecutor's office obtained witnesses. You now want to further make life difficult for our citizens and do it against the Constitution. I do not understand how you can ask this convention to be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, when it is directly contrary to some members of the Constitution. How can you allow foreign authorities without notice to enter our country, to arrest the person who is being prosecuted and to hold him, practically, in custody, until our organs appear. That's against Article 30. The Constitution, contrary to Article 29. The Constitution. How is that even possible? It's possible because this is a puppet state, because it requires what it needs to do. Tell the MPs that you first send every bill to the OSCE, the OSCE Office in Belgrade, and only when you get confirmation from them that the law can be released into the procedure, that it can come to the Serbian Parliament, is that only then will MPs receive it. Imagine what kind of country we are. We need to adopt laws that the OSCE Office only looks at and only then comes to every MP to look at and to say something about this law. Do you, without this convention, extend some forms of co-operation when it comes to some special police units? Here, now, Minister, I ask you openly here is it true that the United States has formed a special unit that counts about 100 members, these members are from the territory of the former SFRY, and serves exclusively for the arrest of persons interested in the Americans, or the UN tribunal? How is that even possible? How can such a unit work in our country? Then what do we need the state for? Is it true that these members have arrested General Zdravko Tolimir? Is it true, Minister, that these members arrested General Tolimir, that the tenants of the building were called by our police at the time, and our police only determined the facts that she could establish, the documents she found in the apartment, and then we get information that General Zdravko Tolimir was arrested in Republika Srpska? If that's true, then you, Mr. Minister, should resign immediately and the entire government, because it's inadmissible for the state. You are unable to do this job or worse, you want to present to the citizens that you are the state body that you should be, that everything is in accordance with the law and that citizens should not worry, which is much worse than to show – we are not able, the situation is as it is, the force of great pressure, we cannot. But don't deceive the people. Don't do this, because a lot of citizens know this. The state is losing authority. The state neither begins nor ends with you. It'll take a lot of time for the state to regain authority, to have the state authorities regain authority. And how is that possible? Just take today's "Justice" list and look at all the statements of cabinet chief Zoran Djindjic. Here, there's the minister of police. The minister of police is certainly aware of this investigation. If something like this turns out in the paper for any citizen and charges like this, it's one of the most serious charges possible, that anyone can say that if there's no argument about it, it's an extremely strict punishment. It is something that is clear to everyone, especially when it comes to persons who have at some point performed the most responsible or most possible functions in one country. You're not worth saying anything at all, you're not interested in it at all, you're not interested in it at all, and you know for sure it's true, you just thought that in some way it would eat and that these things wouldn't be revealed. What, Minister, with statements from some MPs yesterday that when you arrived at power in 2001, you immediately set out to read the secret files? What about it, Minister? What kind of state is that? What were you, a crazy mob that asked for revenge, blood to see, just looking for some reason to do it? What about those who did it? Why is this not being processed, especially by reading these documents, at least according to your predecessor's statements, have found many from the top of the then DOS as co-workers of the State Security Service. Look, they weren't officers, being a civil security officer, it's a real honor, defending your country in the most sensitive place, it's just people who can be specially saved, and informants, if that's the vermin. Bastards who are not able to reach a certain place in life based on their quality, but who are used to rat out their environments, to deal with lies, intrigues, etc. That's who they were at the top of the DOS. What about you, when you came here, you must know about it? Why didn't those who did it answer? Why do you allow this country to be destroyed? This Convention to Serbia will reduce the little statehood it has, and it will not help at all, because at least two of the countries you list here as signatories, especially Albania to be a trustee... I really don't understand you. Albania, which has been in favour for years, not only to advocate but to actively aid the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, are you making such an agreement with them? You know, to really ask you how it's possible that you're destroying your own country in this way. What is Albania going to do to make Serbia better and better for Serbia's citizens? Will it allow you to possibly allow any terrorist from Kosovo and Metohija you seek and to know reliably that he is in Albania, are you sure that he will allow special units or people to enter Albania to arrest him, to help them? I'm sure he won't. When all these things are considered then it is clear that signing this convention for Serbia would be extremely bad, I have already cited especially because it is contrary to the Constitution, and it is almost completely opposed to the interests of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4654	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerning the work of the National Assembly, but regarding the most important national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia, I have reported that I would like to announce to those who may not have listened to the news last night and this morning something on the basis of which I think the National Assembly would have to react before the debate on Kosovo and Metohija on July 24th. Namely, Javier Solana, your great friend, the EU's high representative, said the EU has an obligation, following Merkel's talks with Kostunica, to move the entire decision-making process on the future of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from the United Nations to the Contact Group. Their intention is to have the first meetings on the future of Kosovo and Metohija already on 25th, where they would transfer it to a Contact Group where there is no veto of Russia, as there is in the United Nations Security Council, and the European Union in full, therefore, those of your friends, who love us so much that they will find all the opposite ways to kidnap us Kosovo and Metohija, have made a hell of a plan to take our country and to destroy Serbia. I ask you only, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will the National Assembly today or in the form of a joint statement by the parliamentary groups or, Mr Dulic, by any means your declaration, or by any other means to react against the savage attempt of Javier Solana and other representatives from the countries of the European Union to move the place of decision from the United Nations and the Security Council of the United Nations to the Contact Group. I know a lot of people are gonna say that they can't, and they can't, and I don't think they can, but I don't believe that they can't because we know that they're not supposed to and they couldn't destroy this country, they can't destroy it, they can't destroy it, they can't do it, they can't bomb and they're killing children, so they eventually did it. I don't think it costs us anything to send one clear, warning, serious and responsible writing in which we will inform Javier Solana and the other aggressors of our country, the ones that today... I'm sorry I call your great friends aggressors. For me and us in the Serbian Radical Foreigner, those who take away our Kosovo and Metohija are aggressors, not friends, now, perhaps by these basic, legal and moral issues, and in that we differ. In any case, I hope, Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this initiative, the criminal initiative of the European Union must come to an answer, a clear response from the Serbian Parliament. We do not have better jobs, it is nice that we will play football with our Russian friends from the Russian Duma at six o'clock this afternoon, but it is much less important than how and how to preserve the Serbian state, how to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, and how clearly to mark those who would carry out the full aggression and occupation of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you to explain this, because even this topic that is very important and that we have many major and significant objections, which Mr Todorovic has already made and will bring out many MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, I expect the National Assembly to do something about this issue, because I think there is absolutely nothing more important to us than how and how to preserve Kosovo and Metohija and how to preserve Serbia. Without it, we won't have anywhere to live and our work here will be completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4656	Thank you. I would like to inform all MPs and heads of parliament that today we will have talks with Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Samardzic. It is possible that another round of consultations will continue tomorrow morning. I suggest that we discuss this subject, and that it certainly finds its spot in the resolution that we should bring next week. The People's Messenger has the word, Mr. Shine. Then let Radisa Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4657	Dear colleagues, respected ministers, I would just like to talk about Article 12, which is referred to as "Prevention", which says that the law enforcement authorities of the Contracting Parties exchange experiences in the area of crime prevention, and in order to start and implement joint programmes. In that sense, I would like to say that there are several tens of thousands of Roma living in Serbia who do not have personal documents. The same liver problem in the surrounding countries. All this together says that there are over hundreds of thousands of Roma who do not have personal documents, and the fact that they do not own personal documents tells us that they cannot enter a regular process of education, that they cannot enter into a regular process of social protection and that for a direct consequence there is that, not only Roma, but every citizen who does not have a personal document when he is in such a situation, he then commits a criminal act. If we together launch a regional action in this direction, because we have different good experiences in both Serbia and the countries in the region, and if we solve this issue in a quality new way we will have a situation not to speak, let's say, in some news that the cables were stolen by Roma, not citizens, that the items of child trafficking in Italy Roma from Serbia or Roma from Bosnia and Herzegovina are already a constructive contribution to a regional project to improve the situation of Roma. Then there will be no need to remind everyone, not to mention members of a national community, no matter what it is, not to mention it and to say that its members have committed a crime, but that we will have a situation so that people don't really commit crimes, and Roma don't deal with the illegal acquisition of basic means of life, because if they have documents, I repeat once again, they will be able to enter a regular process of education, they will be able to enjoy social protection and then they will be able to live in a different way. I would just like to remind myself that these are the conclusions of many international conferences, that these are the conclusions of the European Roma Forum, which is the advisory body of the Council of Europe. I expect from the minister that our country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your Ministry will be one of the leaders in the region who will ask this question in a quality new way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4658	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic. Let Dr Rajko Djuric prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to discuss this item of the agenda, I'd like to make a comparison. The finalum of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy of Serbia in 1914, according to its points, was a cat's cough compared to this convention that we here today are to adopt and signed by the minister on 5 May 2006. We will be held hostage by foreign agents in Serbia, remember these words well, no matter what someone finds to make all of this better and smooth. It's just amazing that Serbia will be able to get armed men, secret police members, agents, even without approval, to spy on our citizens who they assume are jeopardizing their country's security. He's gonna do some action, maybe even use a firearm. It will, unfortunately, be seen by Article 23, even killing Serbian citizens. Serbian Radical Party MPs will convince citizens of Serbia, and perhaps MPs of the ruling coalition, what a dangerous trap prepares for Serbia, and therefore for the safety of Serbian citizens, although the fact is that foreign agents, Sasovci and others are already sparring with Serbia both along and across, we see them by corn, orchards. Recently, in Machva, they were seen looking for Ratko Mladic. The arrest of General Tolimir is only a demonstration of what can happen to any patriotism if someone from another country assesses that the threat is public order and peace and security. It may be a threat to Albania, for example, when radicals say they will defend Kosovo and Metohija by all forces, and then all radicals who say they will be put under surveillance, at the request of Albania, and in accordance with Article 4 of this Convention. This convention on political co-operation in Southeast Europe is a final failure of our independence, our integrity and our security as citizens of this country. By applying this convention, but now officially, Serbia will become a transitory and perhaps a stop stop station for a bunch of foreign agents, spies, perhaps even criminals with a secret agent from a neighbouring country. We will live in false belief that we are safe. Any information about your property, I am telling the citizens of Serbia to know, about your car, your truck, your job, your address, your phone records can only be made available to police services of other countries if for some reason you have found yourself on their list of potential enemies. Here, fighting criminals and terrorists is a side issue. Behind such a thought-out concept is, in fact, a interference in the internal political developments in Serbia. It goes even to the point that foreign services will be given information and hearings from the police, and believe it or not, I quote, it is Article 4(5) under m) – Cooperation and exchange of information regarding mass control at public gatherings. It's just amazing, for all political gatherings, party rallys you'll be obliged to submit information to some of the neighbouring countries, possibly names, with recorded speeches, etc. I don't believe this item was written for football games, basketball games, etc. When, for example, Radicals organize a rally with more than 100,000 people, then Albania will feel threatened, so you will be fine on the basis of this Article 4 and the many points of this Convention to forward the information, in addition to the few counts, and the following: identification of subscribers on phones and other telecommunications equipment, information on the place of residence, place of residence and the like for individual rally participants, information on whether they own firearms, motor vehicles, vessels, even aircrafts, and all to make it easier to locate and track you, and perhaps even worse done. It is very arbitrary to interpret what is public order and peace, as referred to in point 5(a) of Article 4 in Albania, so that, based on our assessment of Serbia's security, we are looking for information based on this convention. You think they would get anything and you think that someone would punish Albania for it, no, it will only happen in Serbia because of the crazy demands that will come from some countries. In Albania, it may be normal for Bin Laden to walk the streets of Tirana, to organize camps, but for us it is not. I am very interested in how Serbia would react then and what information it could get from Albania. Article 6 is simply amazing for the next reason. In the preceding Article 5, information shall be exchanged on the basis of the request of one of the Contracting Parties, but we see in Article 6, that neither is any obligation, so there is no requirement, but there is an outflow of information. And this is exactly the ideal opportunity for giving away confidential data from individuals, in exchange for material compensation. No demands, no sign of any information. Article 13 — here is another absurd situation where officials pursue a person, so it crosses the line of our country. This member of the staff continues to be prosecuted in our country without approval. So the question is, first of all, how does it get into Serbia, whether the border is guarded by border police, or if it's hollow as Swiss cheese? What happens next, when the official faces of the foreign country arrive in our country cannot deprive him of his freedom, it is written in point 3.(a) of this article, but already under (b) something similar is offered to arrest and it is imagined that official persons can keep a wanted person, not to arrest him. How? To hypnotize him, to take him to dinner, to play cards with him or something until our police determine his identity. And not to forget another fact, foreign officials have their official weapon, point 5th floor, and imagine, they can use it in cases of legitimate self-defense. Now, what is meant by legitimate self-defense in Macedonia, Albania, BiH, Romania? Somewhere it might be cursing a cop, somewhere moving a firearm on a cop. I am sorry that due to limited time, I will not be able to comment on most of the members of this Convention, but I will remain only for two more members in article 15 and Article 23. Article 15 regulates controlled delivery. This means that our state is obliged to hand over the caught perpetrator of the crime at the request of the party, but to deliver with him all that was found with him at the time of the crime. So weapons, money, narcotics, etc., which are needed by the court to identify offenders and as material evidence for processing. For example, in Serbia's territory, our police have arrested a person with narcotics who has entered Serbia from Albania, followed by a Kobajagi Albanian, an official with the identity of a secret agent, and in fact that face is part of the logistics support of drug trafficking. After the delivery has been stopped, then the article 14 comes on stage, and the offender and seized narcotics and possible weapons and secret agents return to Albania to be tried, and in fact, it is Jovo again until they finally cross over to Europe. We finally reach Article 23, which regulates the responsibility of operational officials, which means that officials from another country in our territory can do certain damage. This damage in point (3) of this article may also be murder, injury, injury and the like. So, they come in nicely without prior consent to our country, liquidate a person for whom, in exchange for the information required by Article 4, they find out everything, find out after that, collateral damage or error, and go over the border nicely. I wonder what the boundaries, do we have at all? And now the damage to the victims, as it says in Article 23, is being paid out by our country, and later that means is being demanded by that country. I think any further comment is out of line. Finally, I wonder how our officials will enter Albania armed to prosecute persons who are confidently known to have committed serious crimes in Serbia, how will through occupied Kosovo and Metohija, who guarantee them what Serbia guarantees to the official persons of the other parties to this Convention? Don't you think the CIA will put their agents in as officials from, say, Albania and BiH? We have recently heard from MP Dragan Todorovic that the CIA has already prepared hundreds of people, and probably these people will be inserted right through those agents into Serbia. I call on MEPs not to vote for this convention in the voting day, because it damages the security and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4660	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Rajko Djuric, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4661	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will, of course, vote in favour of the Convention, and with this regard, I must say that I would be much happier if our country had conventions on co-operation in the fields of culture, science, social policy, but, of course, Mr. Rajko Baralić, I must say, is quite clear about some things and I accept what our colleague Baralić said. In addition, I will add that peace, security, security and freedom are today indivisible human civil values, values that have their institutional support both in Europe and in the international community. But this is a rare opportunity, Mr. Minister, to meet in Parliament, so most kindly I ask you to answer the following questions: First, is our police adequately trained to effectively fight the drug mafia, which we pay an increasing tribute to our children's lives? Drugs have already, as you know better than me, penetrated the villages, and those directed say that some of the places in our country, such as Obrenovac, Mladenovac, Arangelovac, etc., places that can be compared to some of the largest drug centers in Europe, such as Amsterdam. Secondly, there's a huge number of people who have unauthorized weapons. It also endangers the security and security of the country's citizens and even more. That mob, unfortunately, knows little and not enough. That's what I'm saying as a recent editor and journalist. So I'm taking this opportunity to ask you for a more detailed notice and a comment on it. Third, the police ministry has taken over its duty to investigate certain unkind cases of endangering the lives of some public figures. For example. The case of Dejan Atanasivic, the journalist "Time", has not been clarified yet. Yesterday, I asked you to respond to our counterpart Batic's claim that Ceda Jovanovic will experience the same fate as late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. If there are any indications, these are very serious and very disturbing things, at least for me, as an MP and citizen of this country. Next, we've had unkind scenes and cases of appearance and operation of certain fascist and neo-Nazi associations. The most drastic case was "Stray" in New Sad. I'm interested in how many associations and organizations there are in our country, and what danger do these associations pose in our order? Next, our country has ratified the European Charter of the Protection of National Minorities. That's what Mr. Shane was talking about. I know that many Roma for the same acts or deeds were incomparably more drastically punished, and I recently spoke to Mr Petrovic, and that a large number of Roma are in our prisons. We will, unless we get the right answers, request a review of some processes, because it is quite evident that Roma in this country are twice or twice as severe as others. I'm interested, in relation to the Convention, in the representation of members of national minorities at the Ministry of Police and at other levels. Finally, Mr. Minister, it's not just about you, it's about all of us, especially the Government. One of the very important conditions of democratisation of every country, including ours, is the depolitisation of the police and the military. I'm curious about the state of things in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4662	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jocic, this proposal for a convention could not, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, be on the agenda and the state of Serbia cannot ratify one of these signed agreements, which you signed last year. You're the one who called for article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, as people would say, leap into their mouths, because in the 1st position of Article 97, which you are calling on, the Republic of Serbia, but only in the second part of this point, can regulate its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations. But what is preventing you and why the state of Serbia cannot ratify this Convention is point 1 and its very beginning, that sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia, and then its international position, therefore, because of sovereignty, because of integrity, because of independence and, above all, for the sake of security, we as a state cannot sign this agreement. We can't even sign it because of Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which also speaks of the international relations governed by our state, and especially because of the fact that the sovereignty of citizens, and we are obliged to protect the sovereignty of our territory, begins the sovereignty of the state from its citizens, and perhaps in some referendum citizens could declare whether we want the state to be at our disposal, as foreseen by this Convention, although it is from the five-octobaric coup to today, because of so-called. the NGO, because of the CIA and other spy organisations that are uninterrupted, and especially today mentioned investigators of the anti-Serb Hague case, are taking part in the territory of the Republic of Serbia without you speaking a word about it, Mr Jocic. You probably know that in the street of Jevrem Grujic no. 11 There is a prison of the Hague Kazamat, The Hague in small, to bring people there, to keep people there for days and more nights, to ice them, and to persuade people, with forced methods, to falsely testify against the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj and others. Inmates, those that The Hague has already condemned in advance. This agreement and the convention can't be signed, Mr. Minister, all of it, and that you have some foothold, because all this stuff that's written here is lies and deception. You have probably noticed well that your colleague Todorovic told you that he is the signator of Romania's agreement, which has entered the European Union. Of course, in their graduation it is now on the first entry scale. But how can you not be symptomatic that the Bulgarians did not sign this agreement? We, as the Committee on Defence and Security, you know very well, with Mr. Nikola Svinarov, former Minister, and now President of the Security Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria, had more bilateral contacts and co-operation at the time when the Committee led fellow Milorad Mircic. The same problems in the context of drug trafficking, weapons, organised crime and, above all, the crimes committed by the Shiparis in the area and that state, they have, as we do in one part. Of course, we have a much more pronounced problem. Now, I'm curious, when you spoke to a real-estate colleague from Albania in May last year, did you dare, Mr. Jocic, because it says here that this co-operation is so comprehensive, to ask him certain questions? Have you asked your Albanian counterpart what all the centers of power are, and it is a public secret that, besides the U.S. CIA, the western mentors of the Cypriot terrorists and the Albanian state are behind the training centres of the Cypriot terrorists, located in the area of the state. Will you be able to, on your initiative, as this allows you, Article 5 here, to educate a joint team, right, to exchange information about what is going on in Albania. You, come to him nicely, or call him and say, "Article 5 to me." The Convention provides an opportunity to educate a joint team, so let's see where the slaughterers of Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija are arming themselves, who is funding them, what your knowledge of whether or not, as in Serbia, CIA agents are doing. Of course they do. I must remind you of a period when you were not a minister, but an MP and sat in front of us, that an organized group of British intelligence prepared to surrender our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, to the Hague case, in the true sense of the word, to take him to The Hague, and to kidnap him and take him to The Hague. We have prevented it from being well organized by members of the SRS and barrels of gasoline and oil and cars that have been parked outside his house, from the beginning almost to the end of the Posavina Squad. I will also remind you, Mr. Minister, that for a very long time now, in the second term of office of the minister, follow the situation, namely the state of the general chaos and the huge threat of our people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. You, members of the Defence and Security Committee, have provided us with a report on the work of the MUP over the past year. You covered the period from June last to June this year. Also, in accordance with Article 1 of this Convention, you would then have to call again your Albanian colleague, a country that is extremely hostile to us, because it has an open claim to hijack the sovereign part of our country's territory, and you sign an agreement with them, to ask him – what are your knowledge of these activities that are happening, which are made by your countrymen. Because they probably also have some intelligence units and agents that would have to know something about it, and they're interested in that border section and still in those events. Although you know well that during 2007, in the area of the occupied municipality of Urosevac, in the villages of Jezerca, the Stone Head, Miras, Talinovac, Brod, Firaj and other inhabited Albanian inhabitants, armed groups of masked persons in black uniforms who call themselves members of so-called. The armies of an independent Kosovo. Your Albanian colleague would have to know something about it. And you, as minister of the Republic of Serbia, who shows that from the stained vessels is trying to protect the territorial integrity of Kosovo and Metohija, you would have to start all these issues. If that were what it says, Mr. Jocic, you'd have to go one step further, not all to keep it in the press release. Interpol's arrest warrant has been called and you should call Yusuf Kalamperovic, your Montenegrin counterpart, and ask him whether a working group can be organised in accordance with Article 5. Since there is operational knowledge that Stanko Subotic - Cane Zhabac, the king of the tobacco mafia, some members of his family and those who helped him, are hiding in the territory of Montenegro. You think that although he is a signator of this agreement Jusuf Kalamperović, he will accept such an idea – and that you are educating the task force and that he will come and knock on the door of Milo Djukanovic, who is involved and the leader of criminal activities. Don't make us laugh, Jocic. As you made co-operation between you and your colleagues from Republika Srpska and as you said in a statement on the night between May 30th and May 31st – in the fruit of strength, listen, the Serbian and Republika Srpska MUP, I imagine you and your colleague were swimming on the other side of Drina, and you met in half, General Zdravko Tolimir was arrested. I think it's really amazing. Not only is that in the facelessness and mere lie that we will later, but in September of the month, which goes so far away, Mr. Jocic, that you are in this statement, point d) a study of war crimes and a search for missing persons, you wrote, that insolence goes even further, in the official report of the MUP, because you are behind this, and we will question you tomorrow at 12:00 about many other things, and about what you inherited as the obligation of Dusan Mihailovic, because you cannot hide behind it, and you have inherited rights and obligations from the former minister. You have informed us, and this stands in parentheses, you list – intensive activities have been undertaken in the reporting period to find the Hague indictees. You are probably looking for assistance from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the surrounding countries, especially Montenegro, to locate Serbian heroes, so that you can inform Carly del Ponte. You even wrote in this report that he was arrested on 31.05.2007, on the territory of Republika Srpska. This is amazing and represents unprofessionalness, a lie, but now, and this will remain recorded for all time, it is in an official report by the Republic of Serbia's MUP. Since you put a man in a body bag and took him in a difficult state from Bezanian's hair, in the middle of the night in The Hague casamat, first in Bijeljin, and then in the area of Bratunc to take pictures of him there near military facilities and issue such a statement, you first said one thing and then another, and then these unfortunate ones, caught in a lie like you, from Republika Srpska, came up with the idea of putting such a lie in the official report. Who then believes that you will respect what your Constitution guarantees your rights, which you, as the minister of police, in charge of the security of all Serbian citizens, have committed when you took an oath on that night, May 15th, here the second time. Not only these examples, but also the fact that a colleague of Radisa Ilic spoke about, you know very well that in the territory of the former Yugoslav republics, which have achieved independence through Western forces, there are also certain members of the Zemun clan, who are on the run. It would be your turn to tell your colleagues from Montenegro, Jocic, whether or not you discussed the fact. Have you asked them – they have knowledge of the Frog, then for those of the Zemun clan, Chad's friends, and others, and DS and DOS, and then to think about what co-operation would be like? Let's get back to the beginning, to Article 2 of Section 1 and Articles 16 and 97. The Constitution - that we cannot and cannot, as a state, ratify this. Fully uninformed colleagues or those who do not think about the future of the state or people may sound harsh or unfounded to what I'm going to say, but you see how far your Western mentors and Javier Solana go, but above all those who are the leaders of such a policy at the state level, in the process of creating so-called. New Europe, which we need to enter after we meet all the conditions -- sell out the state, let the agents do what they want, do whatever they want, and be armed. You see here a member of the Convention where they can, under Article 13(5) letter e) ''The official persons involved in the prosecution can carry their official weapons; its use is prohibited except in cases of legitimate self-defense''. What kind of legitimate self-defense is that? The way KFOR members behave in Kosovo and Metohija, when besides the Shipatarian terrorists who kill our non-monetary there, they use all the force in a situation where innocent people have done nothing to them. Either you remember the arrogant behavior of UNPROFR and Macedonia, you have a case and it was your colleague at the resort who suffered or you have other cases that happened 15 years ago. All of us now need to do this and unreservedly accept the creation of this so-called new Europe and face the old one, whose original legal part we really are, because they didn't know some of them who are now making us fate, what are European values and what are the values of our culture and civilizations throughout the centuries. The biggest problem with all that, Mr. Minister, is that you don't think like the rest of the free world in the long run. You're probably following what the anti-globalist movement is doing in Europe and the whole world. Never would it have occurred to a country that has a hearty fight against anti-globalism, especially in Latin America, to place its country on the plate like this and say, "Here, come and do whatever you want." Russia does this, so it would be an act of high treason, Mr. Minister, if something like this could be found... And if we met today Mr. Grizzlov and the representatives of the Russian State Duma, what we do and how we sell out, that is, you sell out the state and how you give it into the hands of foreign powers, and those people would grab their heads, and these are the representatives of the State Duma with which your party today signs a co-operation agreement. You, before you listen to other colleagues, or after, excuse me, and who have something else to say in support of this convention, can inform us, that we have convinced you of these arguments that are more than well founded and that I could list you for another hour, but I am already 18 minutes, and a lot of colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party should speak, but you have the opportunity to say yourself at the beginning and since this is generally taken or left, to say not to leave, but to reject as a Serb and as a Serbian patriot, and as a police minister such an agreement. You will convince me then, as well as colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party and the public that you are ready to fight to the end for both Kosovo and Metohija and for the protection of all citizens and that foreign intelligence services and agents and mentors of America and those from the West, who are destroying our country and people, cannot do what they want in this country. Otherwise, you will be in the same basket for me as they are, and they are the greatest evil that has prevailed over Serbia and against which to fight to the end and will be fought by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4664	I'm sorry. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Valjarevic, I ask Dr Mamul to wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4665	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 226, and since I have the honour today, that is, that is, that is to say that we have a Mr. Minister of the Interior of Serbia, I would just like to ask him one parliamentary question, and once he has checked, to inform me in writing, because I believe he cannot now give an answer. On the night between 27th and 28th December 2006, a terrorist attack was carried out at the Povarec Municipality Assembly, a cashier bomb was dropped, which then caused only material damage. After the event, the goal was to disable the meeting of the Assembly, because the previous days so-called. The democratic opposition in Pozarevc following the entry into the Assembly of the Municipality and the breaking-in of the door, and was also informed by the SUP chief, however, he did not react at the time, only reacted when this occurred, and at the invitation of your member of the Democratic Party of Serbia at the press conference, he has noted that he called for the re-play in Pozarevec on October 5th, there was a drop of this spoon bomb, which caused material damage. After that, we didn't get any statement from either the Assembly or any of the parties that asked the SUP chief to give us information on who the perpetrator was, because we have some information that the unsub was from the so-called. then the democratic opposition, which came to the Assembly of the Municipality, that even the councilman in the Assembly of the Municipality. I'm looking for this written information to let us know how far the investigation has taken place and whether the perpetrator has been discovered. This 130-year-old building, back in the Milos Obrenovic era, has never been damaged for such wars as have passed, even during the last NATO aggression, when our country was bombed like this, and after an attempt to violently conquer power in the Municipality of Pogorec, when they failed to do so, there was a terrorist attack. I ask you to inform me in writing, me and the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4666	The People's MP Gjorge Mamula came to the floor, and let Slavko Jerkovic prepare himself. Here you go, if you want to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4667	I apologize, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask my colleague Valjarevic to address here, first of all, with true claims. He's said a few lies for a moment. The first of the untrues is that there is some kind of democratic opposition in Pozarevec. There is no democratic opposition in Pozarevec, but a bloc that has legally reached the parliamentary majority, unfortunately, of this congregation majority and the realisation of its authority needs to be taken into possession of the government, and this is not possible by the usurpation of Councillor Grubetic, and you know it very well. It is true, too, that an incident occurred, that is, the bombing and what the whole town of Pogorjevac knows very well, and that is that the bomb was planted inside and at a time when the Serbian Radical Party hired private security from the people of the criminal record. That's what all people know very well, not just from the police, but from all the citizens of the Fireman municipality. You've been continuing a very bad practice since yesterday, that you're dealing with some topics that aren't here or time or place. Serbia has other obligations, and there are very reasonable MPs here, who do not want to spend neither money nor taxpayers' time, and two radical MPs from Pogorec, I do not know what topics they are dealing with. I would ask you and your authorised representative and your party chief, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and I will ask him on the first occasion, when I see him, to first calm you two down. You have absolutely lost your legitimacy in the Municipality of Porevac. You have once been able to acquire most of it, and that most of it has changed, and my God, today is power, not tomorrow, and it's perfectly normal, and it's supposed to be normal for you, but it's not normal for you and your relationship with the tycoons, the urban mafia, it's led to a very cramping struggle with all your means, and even with lies here for the same power. I'm asking you to stop this controversy like this, which you started yesterday, and I'm also asking you, since we have better things to do with these smarter jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4668	Thank you, Mr. Matice. Ms. Vjerica Radeta according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Valjarevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4669	Mr. Grouchy, you don't seem to be sitting in that seat. Did you hear what Ambassador Matic just said from this place? You didn't react, Mr. Gristle. First you should have asked him on what basis he was saying. National MP Sasa Valjarevic asked a parliamentary question, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Minister Dragan Jocic. Of course, he asked to receive a written reply and convinced, completely justified, that the minister does not know by heart what is going on in Serbia, although such a thing should know, and especially that the representatives of his party are involved in what was happening in Pogorevec. This is the way to defend this event by Mr. Matic now, I guess, has become clear and obvious to everyone. Mr. Matic says he will ask the head of the SRS, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, to reason with the MPs and explain to the MPs what they can talk about here. First of all, Mr. Maticu, the head, or president of the SRS, is Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. The second thing, vice president of the SRS and head of the parliamentary group, is Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Every member of the SRS in this room has the authority of Mr Tomislav Nikolic to speak his mind, unlike you, Mr Matić, listen to me, it will be very interesting to hear, to remind you of something. So, unlike you, SRS MPs sit in this room, do their job, comment on government proposals, submit amendments, and we will always do that, and you will never convince Mr Tomislav Nikolic to tell us that we are not doing it, because, among other things, we have learned it from him, and we have had from whom, you have to admit. You call for reason, Mr. Matice, and what you just said here, no one reasonable would say. You're an impertinent and rude man. You're here trying to turn the water on another well, and you'd better cover yourself with your ears and keep quiet, because now you've made me remind you again of what I said here last year, so you were very angry and offended, so then I brought a photocopy of the solution. Now I ask you, therefore, not the Minister, but you, Mr. Matic, how it happened when you were president of the Municipality of Pogorec that you were able to legalize only two objects that were under strange circumstances in your wife's lease, and in the meantime they were sold, so she is no longer in those facilities, the facility is not legalized, only your two business spaces are. It would be better if you talked about it, and not having patience, Mr. Matić, sitting in this House, that's really your problem. I see the DSS today, there's a dozen of you, and you're sitting here because you have to, because here's your minister. Otherwise, there was no living man from the DSS these days. Because you have to sit down to keep Minister Jocic company and to possibly be able to do something here and say it, he doesn't turn around and notice if you're really there, you'd rather not discuss it. We'll discuss it. We didn't plan on what you're already whispering about not doing tomorrow. As far as we're concerned, we can do it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, Saturday and Sunday. We are prepared, Serbian radicals, to make up for what you missed with our participation, which you missed for several months without establishing parliament until you agreed on the distribution of prey within the government. I'm continuing, just to ask one parliamentary question, so I've extended the time. In that distribution of prey, among other things, I'm asking to be answered by the government by who's the chairman of the Management Board of the Department for the Publishing of textbooks? The director is Mr. Lusic. According to the information we have, the chairman of the Management Board is Milojub Albianic. Lusic's salary is 5,000 euros, and Albianic's compensation is 3,500 euros. I'd like that to be confirmed or disproved.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4670	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mr. Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure. I gave Mr. Matic my word in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta, Article 104. I hope you're satisfied because I've given you five and a half minutes to speak as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I was really startled by Mr. Slavoljub Matic's statement. The man said the most stupidity of the many he said, and said that the SRS in Pozharevec had no legitimacy and that the MPs of the Fireman in front of the SRS had no legitimacy. This is what it looks like, Mr Slavoljub Matic, the SRS in the January 2007 elections, 31.08%, three percent better than the average of the Republic of Serbia. , DSS 12%, four percent worse than the average of the Republic of Serbia, and 4% worse than the average of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Slavoljub Matic, you got it because you made that circus around the Municipality of Požarec. It is your fault that you have such a weak result in the Republic elections in Pogorevec. How are you not ashamed to say and claim that the bomb inside was planted? A cashier's bomb was dropped from the outside on the balcony of the building of the Municipality of Požerevac, aimed at destroying the hall in which a session of the Assembly of the Municipality should be held. The spoon is not planted but thrown, Mr. Slavoljub Matić. The municipality building is next to the city park, ahead of New Year's Eve, when many people pass by, and if you're sure it's planted here's your minister, why don't you arrest whoever planted it, if it's from the SRS. No, it's yours. You broke into the county with the football club, you promised them uniforms, swimsuits, etc., you broke in with them, you seduced those kids. Right? What, it's not like that? The whole football club came and talked about some criminals. You led the criminals, not those boys, but the ones who were harassing them to the Security Department of the Fire Department. You're saying there is no Democratic opposition to Serbia. Did your member Sasa Isakovic call at the Democratic Party conference on October 5th when we did not want to hand over to you the authority you unlawfully wanted to take over? From the Democratic Party, member of the DSS. What does it look like if not on October 5th? What's the October 5th feature? After the crash and the ignition. Was that the result of that call? Yes, it is. Violent entry into the Assembly Hall, later dropped a bomb. Are you saying we broke into that door? There's a security footage when there was a destruction of state property in the municipality's assembly building, the MUP is not responding. You're saying it's not moral. You're talking about morality. What's your moral story look like? What does your story about power look like? You were stolen by the Democratic Party by a councilman in the Municipality of Požarec. You're making a coalition for the government tomorrow with the party that stole your councilman. What kind of man are you and what kind of party is that? We deceived you, stole your councilman, and you went to the coalition with them for the sake of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4672	Time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4673	That's why you get 12%. Ask you a question about your legitimacy and why you no longer have a party in Pogorevec.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4674	If I understand correctly, Mr. Matic wanted to do business, so Mr. Sasa Valjarevic is a replica and I hope that we will return to the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4675	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, again I have to deny something that Mrs. Radeta claims, and it is something that she and I have cleared up several times, and I have completely reassured her. But it comes out here, it's false. If I were to initiate a trial, I suppose I would call for immunity, so the simple public of Serbia should know that every citizen of this country has the right to work, and my wife has the right to work, and to rent any business space, legal, that it is available to all citizens and I don't think there was any abuse. By the way, to say that, as president of SO Firevac between 2001 and 2003, I had a number of demands from citizens, the owner of the space that had not been legalized until then, we managed by means of legal means to bring in the purpose of 150 owners of their facilities. It's a good thing we did. I don't think we should be running around in circles all the time. At the names of my fellow Arsic, I say once again, the bomb was planted from the inside, placed inside, so everyone claimed. Second, even if she was thrown, who threw and what motives he had. All I ask is the investigative authorities to finish the job and show who the perpetrator is, not to bid here and abuse this pay phone. The fact is that in December, the so-called month is undeniable. Parliament Speaker Ivan Grubetic is engaged as a private security for people with a criminal past. That's true. Why aren't these people still engaged? Because you too, seeing your mistake, pulled your job with them and, of course, now regretting and taking every opportunity to correct your mistake. That's true, and I think the truth will come out the moment we bring the Fireman Municipality into legal status, and then we're going to expose what other people in the municipal government are doing, and that's not a question. You had a chance, Mrs. Radeta, to judge my work as the people who came after me to power. However, what happened in the Municipality of Pogorec, I will remind you, in 2002, all the SRS committees voted for the DSS for the president of the Assembly, voted for a man from the DSS, I will not say his name, but I can look at him. It's me. So, Arsic, you voted for me, Valyarevic, you voted for me. That's true. Why did you vote for such a man? Why did you trust a man like that? That's the truth. Don't put yourself in your own word right now. Please, once again, if you have something against people who used to be a government in Pogorevec, and you have all the municipal authority, file criminal charges, start court proceedings, but also when you come out here, first of all, to serve the truth, and not to accuse people in such a way. I also ask all MPs to turn to the agenda point and try, what Serbia needs, to do and do for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4676	Thank you, Mr. Matice. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta, then Mr. Valjarevic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4677	This so-called. The MP earlier said he was calling on the MPs to return to work, to take part in the debate on the agenda point that has already begun, and I have before me a list of MPs who have volunteered to participate in the debate and, believe it or not, no DSS MPs have. They, by the way, do not usually participate in the work of Parliament for information to citizens, very rarely sit, and if they happen to sit, then the heavy hearts sometimes come out for this pay phone to say something and mainly to say the truth, as Mr Matic said earlier, for the second time. Mr. Matic, you asked Mr. Arsic and Mr. Valjarevic why they voted for you to be the president of the municipality and you said you could look at each other, and I don't see a mirror anywhere, where you looked. If they voted for you, Mr. Matić, then they were convinced that, as the president of the municipality, you would advocate that all buildings without a building permit in the Municipality of Pogorec, not just two business spaces in a building that has 20 business spaces, and only those two business spaces held by your wife. You said, too, Mr. Matic, that Ivan Grubetic, the president of SO Fireman, hires, you say, some private security, hires some criminal people into security, and I certainly know that it is the security of the municipality, the official security, and that no one from the SRS has ever had security from criminal circles. I don't just know if you have information, Mr. Matić, is it not an accident that security from the Pebble Group? I remind you it was a man who was head of security for Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4678	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. You said one thing. Two DSS deputies are on the list, Djordje Mamula has been waiting for half an hour and Petar Cvetkovic. Here you go, Mr. Valyarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of plowing with Mr. Matic. I asked Mr. Minister a nice question, since he's here, I wanted him to provide me with written information about this terrorist attack that was on December 28th in Fireman. But when I've been called by Mr. Matic, then I'm going to make some more truths. When he asked me why I set this up to Mr. Minister – because we are looking for the truth, because we have received information that the democratic opposition in Pogorevec is covering up this case. I said the building was 130 years old, that many wars went through Serbia, that it was never damaged, not even in NATO aggression, and that after the call on October 5th, a bomb was dropped on the SO building. Whoever was in Pogorevec, I invite you to come visit Pogorec, you will be able to see that it is one of the most beautiful SO buildings in Serbia. As for the vote for Mr. Matic, it wasn't in 2002, Mr. Matic is false, it was in 2004, Mr. Matic, it seems that your memory was clouded. In 2004, the SRS was supposed to form a coalition where you wanted to come in with us and with the SPS. However, Mr. Matic, the SRS voted, I did, because it was such a coalition agreement, but you did not say that your committees did not vote, that they had moved to other parties and that they returned the mandates on the same day that you declared yourself a candidate for president of the SO. That's not what you told the citizens of Serbia and the MPs here. Don't tell any more lies. As far as the tycoon is concerned, the SRS has no tycoon, Mr. Matić. That is why we are fighting for power in the Municipality of Pogorec and for power in Serbia, to get you out of power wherever you are and in this Serbia to get rid of the tycoons that finance you. Come out and tell me who's funding you in the Fireman. Is that your DSS member, who has half the city centre in Pozarevec, who said – as soon as we get back to power, two more locals and the whole Tabačka Charshi, it's like the Prince of Michael in Belgrade, it's mine. If I'm lying, come out here, deny it. Tell the citizens of Serbia, and all citizens of the Municipality of Pogorec know this, why you are fighting for power. Yeah, you're funded by tycoons. The SRS is financed from its own resources. We don't have tycoons. Don't tell any more lies, Mr. Matyco, because I don't want to take any further steps with you, we want to work on the agenda points, and I did ask Mr. Secretary a question within this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4680	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr. Veljko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm glad to hear the Fireman, because it's the birthplace of a great man, my personal friend, Slobodan Milosevic, but I'd rather talk about development projects there than these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4681	Dear People's MPs, I know the presidents of the municipalities don't have to know about guns, just for information, spoons can't be planted. A spoon, that's why it's called, the moment the fuse is pulled, within four seconds, it's thrown. It's information, so it can't be placed inside. Unlike the current soldiers, we used to be real soldiers, we had contact with all kinds of weapons. Since I haven't found the material, I would take this opportunity to, Mr. Minister, address you, since I've been in the economy for a long time, when they kept delivering us some contracts, some regulations, for the sake of the union, I've always come from the last item, to see what they really want there. So I am also in this, and I would like to inform you, in this declaration, in this agreement, I have looked at Article 30. I will quote it: "If the Contracting Party considers that the approval for the execution of the request or any other form of co-operation could endanger its security, other essential interests or national legislation, it informs the other party that it fully or partially rejects co-operation." With this last act, we, in fact, any state, can undo all this, so it doesn't make any sense why we accept any state, any moment, or even ours, can refuse this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4682	Thank you. National MP Željko Vasiljevic. One notice, the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, July 18th, at 1:00 p.m., at the blue salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I must take the opportunity while the minister is here to introduce him to an unpleasant fact and to an unpleasant event that took place in Medvedja a few days ago. This is really one example that we have to pay attention to, because this is a typical violation of good international relations. In Medvedja last week, there was an excess at the Medvedja Municipality Assembly. A verbal director of the "Nikola Tesla" high school has been attacked by advisers Mehmed Jasari because he did not sign up for two Albanian children. That would be, indeed, problematic if it weren't for this kind of explanation. Namely, children who came from Pristina with a degree in nine-grade primary schools were asked to enroll in the second grade of high school. This may, by some logic of things, given that the primary school lasts for eight years would not be a big problem, however, the problem is in something else. For the enrolment of these children, the permit was requested by the Ministry of Education, and it replied that children who graduated from school abroad, whose diploma was nostricated, could be enrolled. Of course, that would mean that children who graduated from school in Kosovo and Metohija, and we put them on this criterion, to admit that children have graduated from school abroad, or in another country. We certainly as a serious state and as a state that holds on to its image and to its statehood must not be allowed. This part certainly isn't for the Home Secretary, but this second part, now what's been going on is certainly interesting for our investigative bodies. Otherwise, the vice president of So Medvedja Flyorim Sahitije, was deported from Switzerland, and has over 25 criminal charges, and his own brother is a member of the School Committee at this school. Councilman Mehmed Jasari is a professor at this school and teaches to students attending classes in Albanian. Otherwise, and I'd like to draw your attention, there are only nine students in this class, and according to our law, it's not possible to form departments where there are fewer than 15 students. So much, just to prove how much Serbia takes care of national minorities on its territory and how much rights it gives them, and even against the law. Mehmed Yasari is otherwise engaged in the sale of Serbian properties in Kosovo and Metohija. This committee is publicly held at the Assembly of the Municipality, which is directly transmitted by Radio Medvedja, so that all citizens around the municipality heard it, told the professor, or the school director, "take care of his head!" So he was directly threatened at the S.O.S. session. How serious this threat is, I ask the Minister's office to take a look and see if it's really a serious threat to the school director who didn't want to enroll the children of Albanian nationality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4684	National MP George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4685	This proposal for a law confirming the Southeast European Police Cooperation Convention should be adopted. He's not disputed from our constitution's point of view. Its foundation is in Articles 97 and 99. The Constitution of Serbia. Article 97 regulates our country's co-operation with other states. On the other hand, it is not contrary to international law. According to its content and solutions, this law, or convention, will contribute to good regional co-operation in the area of security in the region. The Convention was concluded, as we know, on 5 May 2006. The basis for this Convention, i.e. the law, is the Schengen Agreement. The Shenghen Agreement solutions have been partially adapted, and they have partially entered the Convention. The legal framework for police co-operation in the region represents this Convention and, most importantly, that national legislation is the legal basis for the application of the Convention. So there's no threat from abroad and abroad. By signing this convention and confirming this convention in this assembly, we will apply our legislation in co-operation with the police in the region. From the content of the Convention, you have seen that it contains an area that regulates police law and criminal proceedings, and that it is an opportunity to achieve a field of security, to prevent threats to public order and security, to prevent immigration, illegal movements, to strengthen police co-operation when it comes to very important and very serious crimes, because this Convention is one of the basis for co-operation against international crime. It also contains provisions concerning secret investigations, secret shipments, to a DNA profile solution. It allows for the exchange of information on investigations, information on suspects and defendants, so that with these solutions, when it is confirmed, our country is taking another step towards the EU. That's why I invite you all to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4686	Thank you, Mr. Mamula. MP Slavko Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law confirming the Southeast European Police Co-operation Convention of 2 July 2007, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proves in itself what the proponents' attitude towards MPs are, as well as towards this high house. In its opening part of the Convention, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, Romania and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro are mentioned as contracting parties. They stressed their desire to co-operate to meet common security interests, their determination to effectively fight cross-border threats to public order and security, as well as international crime, by entering a security partnership in order to further strengthen and improve police co-operation, and that they are determined to further strengthen mutual assistance related to police matters. In Article 1 The bill requires confirmation of the Southeast European Police Co-operation Convention, signed in Vienna on 5 May 2006. Gentlemen, remember that circumstances have changed. No more state unions, no matter what they do in Article 2. The bill mentions that the Convention is confirmed by the law of the Republic of Serbia – the Republic of Serbia is a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We saw that Montenegro didn't care about the community. She went on an adventure, but this does not mean that, as a legal follower, the Republic of Serbia must confirm the conventions signed by automation. A convention in the text that is before us in the most part is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. The text of the Convention should be reviewed, regulated, agreed or at least expressed by the reserves as provided for in Article 41. Convention. If we look at Article 38. The Convention, we will note that the Commissioner of this Convention is the Republic of Albania, which will make maximum use of its rights under Article 30. Conventions to limit co-operation. Gentlemen, it is a state that will first recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Its aspirations and goals for the creation of a great Albania will only be expressed. It's not just the Republic of Albania. Most of the other parties to the convention will join unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, thereby directly taking part in the kidnapping of part of Serbia's territory. Let's wait, gentlemen. Let's see who our real friends are from around here. And depending on their relationship to the solution to the Kosovo issue, we will establish friendly relations, ratify conventions and pass laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this point it is unimaginable that the defence minister or anyone in the governing structure thinks or says Kosovo is not a military but a legal-political issue. That's irresponsible. An inappropriate statement and harmful to the Republic of Serbia, especially to citizens of Serbian nationalities living in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4688	I'm asking Mr. Albianic to sit in place, make a mistake. Excuse me, Mr. Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4689	Minister Sutanovac acts as if he doesn't care about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as if he forgot the preamble to the Constitution which requires him to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and foreign political relations. He, with his statement, encouraged Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija and violated Security Council Resolution 1244. In Article 1 The Convention, when it comes to the scope of the Convention, can be seen that it does not comply with Serbian legislation. Namely, the Code of Criminal Procedure does not know the Institute of Police Investigation of Criminal Crimes, as stated in the Convention. The criminal code in Chapter 8 states that the powers of internal affairs authorities are in the pre-criminal process, but does not prescribe a police investigation anywhere. The investigation is being conducted by an investigative judge at the prosecutor's request, whether it was a public prosecutor, a damaged or a private prosecutor. In Article 2. "Definitions", the law enforcement body cannot be widely appointed, nor can an official, as indicated in the Convention, because the institution of jurisdiction is a constitutional category. It is unclear what is meant by the'staying permit', which is the approval, as stated in the Convention, of any kind issued by the Contracting Party. What does that mean? What kind of approvals are these? Under general co-operation measures, in Article 3. The Convention states that the official authorities worry about improving information exchange and communication structures by informing each other immediately about the upcoming events and incidents of importance for the police, without pointing to data relating to persons, in order to facilitate the fight against threats to public policy and security so that the necessary measures can be taken on time. Imagine this co-operation, if one convention says it will not point to facial data. What kind of co-operation is this, how can it be counterproductive in this way? The promoter assures us that this law does not require financial resources, but Article 3. The Convention provides for financial favourable radio communications and the introduction of single radio equipment. This country will certainly have to pay for it. If we look at point 2) of Article 3. The Convention, any reasonable one would ask whether it is envisaged that we deploy our forces to the border with Albania, Mr. Minister, as next door to the border area. I will leave the remaining time to my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group to continue to analyse the draft laws and texts of the Convention. This concludes, by adding that, in an explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the laws and objectives they wish to achieve, the provisions of this Convention contain forms of co-operation which are partially adapted or directly downloaded from the Schengen Agreement applicable in the countries of the European Union. The government continues to act as if the National Assembly were in its service, that for every proposal, regardless of the interests of citizens, it would provide the required majority and thus achieve the goal of joining the European Union. No one asks citizens if they're for that European Union. No one has explained publicly and transparently to Serbian citizens what awaits them in the European Union so far. So far, no one has explained to them the advantages and disadvantages of joining the European Union. It is true that the European Union is represented by the ruling coalition as a well-being for all member states, but believe me, it is one delusion when there is an increasing number of Member States who are eager to get out of the European Union's interesting embrace. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you about the state of Serbia, as far as the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade is concerned, he is paralyzed in executions. Internal affairs authorities don't go out for assistance. Please check it out and make your contribution there for some Senic or Kovacevic of 29 November that they must not abuse their authority to return assistance from the road or give them orders of orality, certainly by telephone, so that they do not come out to the scene so that the official face of the Fourth Municipal Court will carry out the execution, and you understand it very well as my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4690	Thank you, Mr. Jerkovic. People's Ambassador of Samophalov, come in. Just Constantine to finish, so Mr. Albianic will get his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4691	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, the Convention on Police Co-operation in Southeast Europe is undoubtedly a significant step in terms of bringing our country closer to the EU. For each country's police, this form of international co-operation is of paramount importance, especially for Southeast European countries, and I therefore consider this a priority for Serbia. The aim of this Convention is to coordinate across border police co-operation in this region, which also concerns information exchange, witness protection, the formation of mixed border patrols, then, joint investigation teams, and in particular the issue of organised crime when we talk about drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, and also concerns issues of illegal migration. Serbia has clearly defined itself for Europe, and a major job needs to be done on the European path in the area of strengthening security, reducing crime in the region. That's why I particularly stress the importance of working with our neighbours, repeating my co-operation with our neighbours. This Convention allows for further implementation of Schengen standards and is part of the preparation for the full liberalisation of the visa regime in our country, and when we talk about the problem of visas, I address you as a member of the young generation which has been hit hard by this problem. More than 70% of my peers have never left Serbia, never had the opportunity to see how they live in some other countries, and I believe that getting to know our youth with other peoples, cultures and systems is of vital importance and interest to further progress in our country. Since this Convention is another step on the road and towards that objective, the DS will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4692	Thank you, Mr. Samofalov. Mr. Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. First, the dignity of the Assembly must be respected, which means the dignity of the MPs, secondly, that we are obliged to speak true information for the congregation speaker if we have them. If we don't have them, then let's not make them up and fake the data. What's this about? You accused the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Department of Manuals, i.e. You've accused the director of the textbooks' office. Both information is incorrect. So neither the director of the textbooks' office has 5,000 euros in salary, nor the chairman of the Board of Directors' Boards has 3,500 euros in salary. Of course, why do you do that, if you wanted to ask the Rules of Procedure a matter of Parliament, let's say, that institution, the Department of Books, that you were written to deliver how much it is, you could get that information in a perfectly normal way, so you could ask the question and say that you would be provided the answer to that and that question. However, in your address to the National Assembly there is a false qualification. You didn't want it, that's the situation. You want to get some man of honor, try to write it in the paper tomorrow, and when he gets here, the denials come. Or, when the leaf falls, it should be returned to the branch. That's what you handle. Well, you can't question honest and responsible people in any way. The appropriate answer should arrive, I ask the congregation’s competent service to deliver that answer to you, but what will we do for a lie? What are we going to do about the spoken untruth that stands here? If you wanted an answer, I repeat, if you wanted that answer, you'd get it, as you're going to get it, but the question is, what are we going to do for 3,500, maybe on an annual level? Who's going to add, will you pass me the monthly shortfall for the sufferings I've suffered here, who's going to add that? (President: I ask the MPs to allow Mr Albianić. I could really use it if I had it monthly in the budget that you're talking about. I live modestly, all people know that, I live modestly, honestly, I do my job responsibly and honestly, and it is not worthy of you to address the MP in this congregation home in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4694	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, and let Mr. Petar Cvetkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to cut this short so I don't repeat myself with my colleagues because they have presented a series of facts that indicate that the draft law on the validation of the Southeastern European Police Cooperation Convention should not be adopted. I listened very carefully to the minister, Mr. Jocic, and I must tell you that on the basis of his exposure, I was under the impression that he himself did not agree with this convention, for the simple reason that Mr. Jocic here gave us these general provisions. Of course we all advocate against crime, public order and security. So, in that sense, of course, we all want to work together with our environment and to do it ourselves in our country. However, Mr Jocic did not refer at all to any other members, of whom my colleagues made detailed arguments, which spoke against this convention, such as Article 13. "Emergency Search." You know, it's just amazing, I don't see this security situation that we're using to get some power into our country's territory. Here the promoter says they'll be marked, they'll have something around their hands, some tape, they'll have some marked vehicles, and now we need to appreciate what the forces are and what they're doing in our territory. First, I think one of our colleagues mentioned, we're members of Interpol. So, if the search is for a person, a criminal, a drug dealer, of course we'll look for him, chase him, and deliver him to that country. I don't see any reason for any police force to cross our territory past our security forces. Mr. Minister, it is not clear to me that you are here a representative of the motion, why this point and placed on the agenda when you know it, I will also remind fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, that your predecessor Dusan Mihajlovic, as minister of police, acted as the British Intelligence Service and their special units present in Serbia, may still have asked him to do so. Mr. Jocicu, we received this information from the senior officials of Serbia's MUP and the BIA, who even brought it to the press. In particular, I am talking about the situation when Mr Milosevic was conducted in The Hague. We were told, by your men, by your predecessors, that the operation was conducted directly by the British Intelligence Service. These people, who said that, have their own name and name and they brought it up in the press. So I'm asking a question, if that's true, and we don't see from this material that we signed with Britain, how can their police and special forces be present here? If that's not true, I'd like you to deny me. Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you, since you are the representative of the promoter, you heard Mr. Todorovic. You know we get all kinds of information from the structures where you're the minister, that there are various services here. I can understand some co-operation, but not that they're digging through our country. It's terrible that special services stay here. I'll see you on the Security Committee tomorrow. I'm sorry you didn't come early, but we're gonna have a lot to ask you, because we haven't figured out who he is yet and how he arrested General Tolimir. Fellow Members of the People, I ask the question is there any logic, legal or any other, that our police are setting up co-operation with the police of the Republic of Albania, and as you have heard, is the bearer of this Convention, and that the same police must not set foot in the territory of their own state, in Kosovo and Metohija, while we know it, and you know it, Mr Minister, the Albanian police are walking unhindered through the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as if it were their country? Secondly, how is it possible that the proposer of this law, or the government of Serbia, does not mind that Albanian officials, whose state is a confidant of this Convention, are supporting the kidnapping of the works of our territory, and we are offering them an agreement on police co-operation, which, of course, will benefit the Albanian separatists and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija the most? These are clear questions, Mr. Minister, and I hope you don't see a handful of strangers in my presentation, but we're talking like serious people. In the end, it is my conclusion that we should not accept this convention, because we will have more damage than benefits, and above all they are the principal reasons, because they are taking away our territory under the auspices of the European Union, the United Nations, behind which the United States stands. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this convention, as well as a number of previous ones, has come to the Serbian government, which has been ordered to adopt this, means, translated, ratted and put to us for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4696	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4697	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we are near the end of this debate today on the draft law on the adoption of the Southeastern European Police Cooperation Convention. We're already somewhere, the moment we can discuss some common denominators. So it's hard not to mention, and I don't know if it's necessary to tell anyone at all now and to mention that Serbia is not a lonely island in space, that Serbia is not a country around which there is nothing, that Serbia is not some anachronous country, but rather, that Serbia today is a modern country which is, normally, like all countries in the environment and in the world community, all modern and modern countries, directed to co-operation in many ways, in many respects, in many parts and globally, in the entire world community. Therefore, when we consider that crime is to the extent that it is internationalised that it knows no borders, knows no religion or any other restrictions, that crime at the level of the region or the world is organised, that organised crime lately is the force that threatens and some countries, that force that is on its way or very close to taking over or has taken over some political elites, it is possible one, but not the main reason for the adoption and signing of this Convention. The convention was signed between Southeast European countries. I will remind you, Southeast European countries represent one ring, whether external, sanitary or any other ring towards the European Union. What is the first or among the first arms to prevent the import of crime into the European Union? There is also our role, the role of Serbia, which is more important, before we prepare to join the European Union, and I say we are aware that Serbia is always in Europe. So there's no need for us to go there, we are in Europe, but it is necessary to prepare ourselves to join the European Union. Southeast European countries' co-operation: Moldova, Romania, BiH, Macedonia, Albania, Serbia-Montenegro, with regard to crime control, is fundamentally undermining this convention and this law on the adoption of the Convention, co-operation in countering organised crime. Organized crime endangers all of these countries, no less or less individually, it's, like I said, the planetary evil or evil of this region, especially, I have to mention, because none of the speakers mentioned it, in preventing organized crime, for example, a trafficker, where, interestingly, you noticed, Moldova was involved. You are aware of the fact that the trade is now going from the former republics of the Soviet Union, now independent states. Not only that, we in these areas have a more permanent, organised drug crime, as well as other types of organised crime, or individually. All objections, i.e. any alleged fears that by co-operation under this Convention, the states of Serbia or any state signator of this Convention will lose their sovereignty, lose importance when known forward to those facts and when the facts entered into in this law are known, and that is exactly what co-operation on the principles of volunteering, i.e. co-operation on the principles of notification, and so the consent of the host country is conditionally stated. Therefore, the emphasis that it will lose on the sovereignty of any signatories of the agreement does not stand. On the other hand, I would remind myself of the beginning of my presentation, where I said that Serbia is not an island in space alone, that Serbia is a modern state and that co-operation is necessary. With every agreement, every law-making state gives something of its raw power acquired sovereignty, because the state, as you know, is the source of force and limits its sovereignty in the interest of the common good. In this case, it's generally good to contain organized crime. So I think this bill, or the Convention, should be adopted. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, there is no need for more DSS MPs to discuss this, but this opportunity should be highlighted and commended. I must here, regardless of the anger Mr. Minister will have, to commend the work of both the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior, to remind citizens, well-intentioned, of all the successes of the past period, of the arrest of the organized mafia and wish them further successful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4698	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. Let Vlatko Ratkovic prepare himself. I'm sorry, I have to apologize, Srboljub, I'm sorry. Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Srboljub won't get mad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4699	Gentlemen of the People, I would like to ask a question, and I will deliver it in writing. We received information that Milan Veruovic has become a security adviser to Mr. Jeremic. I ask the question – is it true, on what basis, what qualifications and merits did Milan Veruovic become a security adviser, if that is true? There is a suspicion that Milan Veruovic, since we know how much he has disrupted the trial of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, invented the third bullet and what was his role in the trial, so we are asking the question – is this an advisory post in the ministry of foreign affairs a reward for obstruction done during the trial for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. This is very serious, I will deliver this question in writing. I took the opportunity, since the minister is here, he is probably aware of how much Veruovic has obstructed this trial. I ask you to answer this question – is it true and on the basis of which Mr Veruovic deserves an advisory post. Not to you, but to the MIP, so speaking of this subject, I'm taking the opportunity to ask this question to the MIP and ask on the basis of what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4700	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. The word is according to Businessman Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4701	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for reporting to the Rules of Procedure. For me, it is not a question of how Mr. Veruovic now became an adviser, but of how he became head of security to the prime minister, without having previously bothered anyone with his police record and how it is possible that it is only today that it is current for the people who were in the coalition at the moment. Also, not defending him and not attacking him, because I have no right, however, I want to say that in the assassination of Zoran Djindjic, Milan Veruovic took a bullet and remained alive. Maybe even if some of the other security guards took a bullet, unfortunately, that was their job, that thing wouldn't end up like that. Besides, there are a few other questions that you can also ask. Who obstructed the investigation? Why, Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi, whose seven-eight phones, as well as his wife's phone, were on a special regime with the police and why weren't they interested in power? Why was it not an interesting report by the BIE, which spoke of the danger of life to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? Why wasn't it interesting that, among other things, it was a security zone that meant Geprat's street and why much else, I hope that one day we'll find out. Otherwise, Milan Veruovic Burgia, it was his official nickname when he became head of security for the Prime Minister, could never do the job he was doing, in serious countries it is not possible. When you turn the party security into a police force, when you give him the ID of the National Security Service, or BIE, then you have a problem. That job should be done by professionals. They're professionals, no matter which foreigners they belong to. Their police knowledge, their physical skills, their psychophysical abilities qualify them to do such a job. Milan Veruović Burgia should never have been even the lowest police officer! That's the point. Also, Mrs. Pesic, I look forward to the answer to your parliamentary question and I think it is not normal, but it was not normal in 2001 either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4702	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. He has the word Srboljub Zivanovic, and let him prepare Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4703	Ladies and gentlemen, by reading this convention, it seems to me that the minister wants, and so does his service, to cast dust, or to hide behind this convention, all this time or all these years, at the post of Mr. Jocic. I know when we were sitting here in Parliament in 2001, but since then, that time has been quite different. I think he wants to appear solemnly, when he participates in giving certain thanks to this service, then, and now, as minister, he wants to conceal his incompetence. First, I must tell you, there was already one signature or entry into the Partnership for Peace, to call it that, a document that this Dosmanlian government or, with then Minister Vuk Draskovic, signed this shameful document, that NATO forces can do any inadmissible in the territory of Serbia, according to the law of this state, acts without being punished. It's actually transferred to this convention. It is also interesting to say that all these years DOS authorities have seen the presence of crime, the mafia in this country. As my party sister Natasa Jovanovic said - this convention can only function on the basis of the Constitutional Charter, which is that this country is sovereign and independent. I ask you, is Kosovo and Metohija part of Serbia, or whether this Convention applies to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, if we know that Kosovo and Metohija have the greatest criminals, the largest mafia, the largest drug distributors serving Western Europe, and normally all the countries of the East and West. For our laws, it's inadmissible, and for our police, it's inaccessible to function. My party colleagues have spoken a lot, but what's most important is what I wanted to say at the beginning, which is why you throw dust in the eyes, all the citizens, and even those patriotic forces. The patriotic forces of the Serbian Radical Party, that's because many operational units are operating on Serbia's territory today, we don't know which service they belong to. I didn't get an answer, when in the middle of the month on Cera and Cera's slopes, an operational police service functioned normally in the capture of Hague indictees, and the Office of Internal Affairs in Sapco did not know about the action. Please, as it is possible for you to enter the territory, let someone come to your territory, in your yard, and you will let him walk, so that he can engraving in your backyard without your approval. That's probably possible for you. It is possible, because it seems to me that Mr. Jocic wants to wash himself as a person and that, in the end, as well as his current Prime Minister, he does not know what is actually going on, as well as the night when there was a combing and when they were breaking into certain objects, those people who are there, who, with all this trouble, live, military officers from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, those people who couldn't find apartments, and these are our officers. Back that night, I saw about a thousand present and I don't know where they were going, because there were about 30 or 40 buses. We heard here when the government was set up and when they took an oath, when Mr. Jocic took an oath saying he didn't know what was going on on in Belgrade City. Also, that's my question I asked, and now I'm asking Mr. Jocic to answer me. I see, Mr. Minister, that you're getting some sleep, but this is going to go slow too, wait. What is also very important, is mentioned in the presentation of many MPs, it is a tobacco mafia, so the bankruptcy mafia, and the road mafia, but I am surprised that you are all initiating and implementing it when it is necessary, before certain elections, in order to probably show how much your service, your power, or how much of the minister's activities were in the previous period. Gentlemen, you have to cut, before anything happens, you should have caught up with you, if you've already said you've been following them for years, in order to eventually set a goal and a time when this operation will happen. I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, that you don't even know that it's also one operation, now on Sunday, carried out in one, to call it the forest section near the town of Sapac, the summer house, between 10.00 and 10.30 hours, where it was also blocked, the police were not allowed to enter, because the former director of the public utility company, Mrs. Daniela Lovrin, was not able to clear that area, and this is our resort, the police were not allowed in. I'm asking you a question, how could it have happened that this task force worked without anyone knowing about Cera, where the children were stopped when they went to school, to search their bags. They thought, by any chance, if the children weren't carrying food to the Hague indictees. What I am also interested in from this convention and, as you can see, that certain services, that is Article 13 point d), that individuals from an operational group of other countries can come to Serbia's territory, as the previous speaker said, have certain features. Who knows, the resident who lives here, whether there are those features or not, will see that certain operating groups operate on a mission. So, the time of Serbian radicals is coming and don't worry. You have to understand, please, just a little attention, because this isn't funny, maybe it's sad because we're going to allow other forces, the forces they're going to operate on Serbia's territory, to do certain intelligence actions. Just one more question, and I'm sure I'm done. You know, an amnesty has been performed during your period of many Shipatarian terrorists, who are now in Kosovo and the OKK's Penitentiary Metohia. Therefore, I wonder, who has amnested these people and who also today, and it was when Batic did it, but you did it in your time, when you allowed some Albanians who participated in these groups, when you promised them that they had been liquidated, to have been liquidated by Serbian patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4704	Thank you. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, not there. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the minister is here and that the minister is a lawyer, we will have to warn him of certain legal principles relating to the proposals of certain legal projects. I must tell him that no civil servant and no citizen of this state can sign anything that is contrary to the constitutional system and the legal system of this state. You have here proposed one law, which is contrary to the Constitution and we have said here, that it is Article 29 to 34. The Constitution and numerous legal regulations, which we cannot explain now because of time. It is the obligation of every civil servant to verify the legality and legal act before entering the procedure, in his services and in his legal departments. As far as this Convention is concerned, we must say that in addition to this Convention, and I think of the state of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia during 2002, we have concluded bilateral agreements on police co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and with the Republic of Bulgaria and both agreements have been ratified, they are valid and they are in the legal system. On the other hand, this Convention obliges all those States to sign it. I will look only at the problem, given that time is running tirelessly, the problem of relations with the Republic of Croatia, and above all in the area of police co-operation. I will also refer to the provisions of the Law on the normalisation of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was concluded in 1996. I will call upon one member of this Agreement and that is Article 7 which says that foreign Contracting Parties will provide conditions for the free and safe return of refugees and displaced persons to their residences or other places that they freely choose. Foreign Contracting Parties shall ensure that those persons are returned to their property, i.e. fair compensation, and what is the situation with the return of refugees. The return is almost gone. That is what I say responsibly on behalf of the Republika Srpska government in persecution. We in the government have that information, and you have it in the Ministry, and the BIA has it. What's going on with the returnees? Unauthorized detentions, internal affairs authorities of the Republic of Croatia, unauthorized hearings, arrests of Serb nationalities, harass the arrested, commit certain measures of coercion against the arrested, certain beatings, physical injuries and various other brutalitys. This is what the authorities of the Ministry of the Interior are involved in, and with the same bodies we cooperate, we have an agreement. We have an agreement on normalising relations that obliges foreign contractors to work actively, one and the other, on the free and safe return of refugees and exiled persons. Minister, you in your Service have that information. In the last three to four months, no media in the Republic of Serbia, that is not done in Croatia now, does not publish everything that is happening to these refugees. The locals, along with the internal affairs authorities, are beating up, draining, arresting, dropping bombs on their houses, burning down their crops, stealing cattle, etc. That's what you keep quiet about here. Under someone's orders, the Ministry of the Interior, according to this law, or the agreement between the two states, is required and required to make sure that everything he learns through operational means, and on the other hand there is an agreement that obliges you to obtain information, media exploitation. That I was right best told the government's answer to my asked question from June 12th, 2007. The government has seduced it under 9-3203225-07/2 and in response says -- data on war crimes committed are in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the BIA and other security services. What did the Home Office do in the field of war crimes detection? You're doing everything you can about the Serb people. All Serbian patriots who fought for the defence of the Serb people are arrested, detained, taken away. I've got the data, I'll take it out to the public, but I'll leave it to you to give the information you have to the D.A.'s office to carry out the procedure, inform the Croatian authorities and to initiate the procedure. No data from your ministry and from the BIA has gone towards Croatia to initiate procedures in Croatia. That's right here in the memo, I'll leave you this copy to see. It was signed by Mr Djelic on 5 July 2007. Minister, I request an answer to what the ministry has done to prevent political genocide against Serbs who are in Croatia, these are mostly old people, over whom the local population and the Ministry of the Interior are experiencing, with whom you have very good co-operation. It's embarrassing and you as a minister must offer the public everything you have. You can't hide this information. To this you are bound by all the laws of the Republic of Serbia, one agreement, an agreement on normalisation of the relationship that requires the free and safe return of the Krajisnik to their hearth. Free and safe return to them, there is no peaceful life for Serbs in Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4706	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4707	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am using my business rights under Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ask the Minister, Mr Jocic, one question. Otherwise, for the sake of correctness, I have to say that I have asked some questions in previous sessions to Mr. Jocic and that, in a very short time, every time I get an answer. I expect that, Mr. Jocic, and this time. In his debate, Mr Dragan Todorovic spoke about what I wanted to ask, and once I also asked that about 15 days ago, I don't know if you received such a question from the congregation services. It is the fact that in Jevrem Grujic, number 11 there are rooms in which the UN tribunal's investigators are staying. Those premises are guarded from the outside by the representatives of our Home Office. When the gates cross, you are waiting inside for representatives, or some people who are likely to be employed in The Hague. They're some other security detail. What are you doing in Jevrem Grujic, number 11? That's where people are brought in, to be blackmailed, to be threatened, to be offered money. Why? To be false witnesses in the Hague trial against Professor Vojislav Seselj. It is indisputable, and it is clear to the UN tribunal today, that there is no single evidence against Vojislav Seselj. As a result, nearly five years has not begun the trial, and it is likely that the way Serbian authorities co-operate with The Hague tribunal is exactly what is happening in Jevrem Grujic's number 11. So, you representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when you talk about co-operation with The Hague tribunal boast what you will do, how zealous you are, etc. Of course, so far you've only shown yourself zealous in the extradition of Serbs to the UN tribunal. Now I've also spoken as a member of the defense team of Professor Vojislav Seselj and I've been well informed and I know we're not getting any information or documents, we're on the team that Carla del Ponte is getting. When we find out through our sources that Carly del Ponte has been delivered some material, then we're looking for it in writing, and then we get a part of it with a few months late. The question for you, Mr. Jocic, is - who and on what basis did he release these representatives, or investigators of the UN tribunal? According to information from the people who gave and authenticated the competent courts of their statements, there are some detention units in those rooms, because they hold people there for four or five days to possibly act to sign a statement against Vojislav Seselj, which is required of them. Whose facility is this? Who gave it to be used that way? On what basis do the members of the Ministry of the Interior guard the facility?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4708	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4709	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling for an article. In 225 and 226, to ask Mr Jocic, the police minister, three questions. Mr. Minister, how accurate is it that BIA has a political party department, meaning by listening, monitoring and all other actions directed towards prominent members of the opposition parties, instead of BIA justifying the high amount of funds it receives from the budget and dealing with security matters relevant to the functioning of the state? The second question, please, is it true that all the equipment for the IT service in your ministry, and in the work in the city police building on November 29th, was installed by the German intelligence service in order to ensure some police co-operation? Where did the police officers go to school, where they went to training, from that service? The final question, to answer us, is what are the results and how many criminal charges have been filed against the management of public utility companies and heads of state institutions that have been the subject of an investigation involving your Office of Prevention and Combating Economic Crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4710	I thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4711	I'm calling in an article. 225 and 226. I ask the Rules of Procedure, and I ask the question, since we rarely have the opportunity to have the minister who proposes the laws come before the MPs and answer the questions asked, and you see, the Minister of the Interior did so, so I take that opportunity and ask one question and I would like to ask you an answer. In fact, several times a search was carried out by security officers at Pato Ferenca's apartment in the village of Debeljač, the Municipality of Kovacica, otherwise president of the OO SRS. I ask the question – on whose orders has the search been carried out? At the same time I'm looking for an answer – the result of these searches that Pato Ferenc and his family had? I've been asked to ask this question, because the Pato Ferenca family, for reasons unknown to us, has been exposed to great inconveniences, harassment, so that his children have survived many things in recent years. In particular, I would ask you to order the service to file a report - who issued the search warrant, whose name was the search warrant and whether the name and last name of the search orders for the apartment and other rooms is identical with the name Pato Ferenca. Please, make sure there were any failures and abuses, because I don't think something like this should happen. One more thing, confirmation of stolen items. So that's why the search of the apartment was ordered, based on which evidence and what was found during the search. Whether criminal cases were found or not and whether any criminal and criminal proceedings were committed against Pato Ferenca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4712	I thank my colleague Jojic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4713	Thank you. I also want to ask you a question. I own two guns and one rifle, I pay my taxes in order. In 2005 and 2006 I received a solution from the competent administration that the tax should be paid by Baralic Maria Rajko. So, on my question – why does it not say in the solution that I am Baralić Budimira Rajko, because I am not an out-of-marriage son, far away, even though I wish my out-of-marriage children all the best? I was answered by the police station in Chačka that it was from another file. So this year I got a solution and also paid my taxes neatly on Baralic Budimira Rajko, which is nice of the police. I'm curious. Who deleted my honorable late father from the list of those who have two sons, how many police files exist on Baralić Budimir Rajk, what are they doing, who is playing with me in this way, what was his intention? I don't have any documents that say I'm Baralić Budimira Rajko and the weapons I own, and all the permits I have are on Baralic Budimira Rajko. My passport, my I.D., medical ID, driver's license and every other document says I'm the son of an honorable father, the late Budimir Baralic. So, Mr. Minister, please, this isn't just a matter of security for me, this is an important personal question for me, who after 48 years put me into the out-of-marry son of Maria Baralic. My honorable mother didn't deserve to be a low-class police officer, guided by who knows what interest, to play with her integrity, with the integrity of my father and my own. Most kindly, I'd like an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4714	Thank you, colleague Baralic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 226, since there's a police minister present, I'd like a word with you. Namely, it's about article 54. The freedom of gathering is said to be: "The peaceful gathering of citizens is free. A gathering in a closed area shall not be subject to authorisation or registration. Meetings, demonstrations and other gatherings of citizens in the open space shall be registered to a state body in accordance with the law, i.e. Police." I would like to ask the minister if he is familiar with citizens' gatherings in southern Serbia, as NATO forces and the isolation of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac municipalities from Serbia were requested at the gathering. Are you familiar with this and whether the police have approved this kind of gathering, as these gatherings celebrate Albanian terrorists who know what they've been doing with our police in the past, when there have been conflicts. The specific question – is the police familiar with this gathering and has it given permission for this kind of gathering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4716	Thank you, colleague Stosic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity, since Minister Mirko Cvetkovic joined us, to ask the question of the Interior Minister, given that information has come out, among other things, that Minister Cvetkovic, as current minister, is deeply involved in the sale of Sartida, is not selling, but a crime related to the sale of Sartida. Otherwise, we have already made it clear during the inauguration, i.e. the proposal for a minister's candidate, that there is a reasonable or well-founded suspicion that Mirko Cvetkovic even in 88 privatisations made it possible to alienate the property of the Republic of Serbia illegally. I understand that you are coalition partners and that you are not responsible for going to the end now, but that you are selectively and publicly, and also in some way not to satisfy justice but to work together in the government to bring down the bribes on Zoran Djindjic, because that is the case for both the DSS and the DS, especially the current president of the state and the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, because he and Zoran Djindjic were never only in good relations, but they were also political opponents within the party. I assume you remember all those letters and thesis that were related to the debate on the main committee when it was made known to DS members that Zoran Djindjic had reached the party's post. I'm telling you the facts now. Or are you saying Boris Tadic lied? I don't mind, you come out here and say that Boris Tadic lied in 1994 when he accused Zoran Djindjic of coming as party president. I don't have time right now, but we've read it to you so many times, why are you angry? Now it seems to me, that's my impression, I don't have to be right, that you work together to bring down Zoran Djindjic's bribes and that it suits you. Because as it does not fit, look at the closest environment of Zoran Djindjic. Is that in the party today? Zoran Zivkovic, yes. What function – former vice president. Mr. Chairman, there seems to be a valid reason here to bring in certain specialists to the O.R. to help some people who are unable to endure, perhaps because of the climate in this room or I don't know why, because there are arguments and arguments. If there are people who are unable to hear it, then a fundamental question is whether they can even sit in this room. I'd like to ask you to use that possibility. I don't mind at all, but to help people like that. Please listen to me. I don't understand why you don't accept such obvious facts. I know it's never a topic for you, but it's primarily a subject because I'm taking advantage of the opportunity when our current police minister is here, to warn us of some of the things we learn as citizens. Because, look, if that's not true, that's what I said in the morning, it's actually the most serious accusation, and that's what the current authorities of this country need to deal with. I suggest you clear up on the DS board with these issues and it won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4718	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see here the minister of police and the finance minister, but it seems that Mr Dragan Todorovic is on his way to a health minister's recall campaign. And there doesn't seem to be enough bensedin in the pharmacy. I understand such a reaction but I ask you, Mr. Todorovic, not to take the name Zoran Djindjic, not to do what the DS did. I am very proud of everything Zoran Djindjic has done for Serbia. During his rule, when I was in the Resistance, no piece of the country of Serbia was sold to the NATO Pact, as was done during the time the SRS was in power. I want to remind you of your leader Vojislav Seselj's words: "If a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, I will leave politics. "Now hide under the bench, Mr. Todorovic, never take your word for it again and talk about Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4720	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4721	I am pleased, Mr Milivojevic, that you have recognized yourself in my discussion, I thought of you when I said that it is necessary to show some MPs help because they are unable to bear the discussion of other MPs in the way that this Rules of Procedure and the usual way in which Parliament works. I must tell you about Vojislav Seselj and his promise to leave politics when NATO's boot enters Kosovo and Metohija that it is not true. You deceive the public, just like you do all the time. This is about other things, simple facts, that we've been present for a month, bombing us with information from former DOS ministers. The fact that you're proud of it, it's a serious problem now. You will have to explain it to yourself and possibly someone else if you need to explain it, but should I tell you all the facts that former Interior Minister Dusko Mihajlovic presented, about who all criminals came to the government, what they were looking for, what they ordered, that he was familiar with all of this and Zoran Djindjic. Not only was he familiar but Dusan Mihajlovic claims, or Beba Popovic, that he has been with the Surcinci for some time, that they have, among other things, helped him to get some information and, among other things, pointed out their merits in October 5th. That, are you proud that on October 5th, with the help of criminals, it's a matter of your feeling and I'm not going into it. But what the Agency is saying, as it was called then, the Director of the Public Communications Bureau, Beba Popovic, their mutual accusations, what has been determined so far, so please don't, that's basic logic, the basic common sense requires that it be thought that everything around Zoran Djindjic was deeply involved in crime. Here, you have had the opportunity to hear here the request of Vesna Pesic, who has been in your flock for a long time, to ask about the situation with Milan Veruović. People, this is common sense, as it is possible that everyone around you is deeply involved in crime, to exclude Deputy Prime Minister and Vice President Cedomir Jovanovic, you have eliminated Zoran Zivkovic and many others from the closest environment of Zoran Djindjic, and here you do not accept the fact that you are secretly benefiting from the Democratic Party, you are tearing down the myth about Zoran Djindjic, that is what is the underlying problem. All you can think of is the tobacco mob.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4722	Time, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4723	I'm done. It's so much of an affair that simply a man can't remember all of a sudden. Here, just remember the tobacco mob affair and the ride of Zoran Djindjic by the aircraft of Stanko Subotic-Cannet. It's nothing to you. You remember the explanation... Well, yeah, I understand your motives, the explanation of Zoran Djindjic when he was asked that question was very simple, so he says, they were cheaper than the government. It's only a problem that they were the head of practically the tobacco mob or maybe he wasn't even the boss yet, but remember the explanations of Zoran Djindjic when it was asked how it was possible for Chume to get jobs to asphalt in Serbia, highways. He also said at the time – he was the best bidder.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4724	A colleague of Todorovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4725	So all these things are enough. I say I understand you, but for reason of common sense, it's enough for a normal man to connect some things and that he can bring judgment. You may not be informed as DS members, but trust someone inside the DS, I assume it's Boris Tadic, wants to definitely deal with the bribe on Zoran Djindjic. I don't mind that at all. We want to get to the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4726	A colleague of Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4727	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4728	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4729	So, ladies and gentlemen, I have an obligation to respond to the gravest insults on behalf of the late President Zoran Djindjic. When someone deals with a dead man in this way, and even during his life he announced a bloody spring in Serbia, clear motives for doing so are clear, Mr. Todorovic's fascination with the character and work of Zoran Djindjic. In three years, he was able to repair a lot of what the Serbian Radical Party managed to destroy, inflicting the greatest shame on Serbia for the past 100 years and in recent history. When I spoke to this pay phone the other day, about reading the files of the State Security Service, I didn't read them in Dusan Mihajlovic's cabinet. The file, your associate, publishes you, writes a file here, some Vojislav Seselj, with a master's code, voluntarily hired in 1979, a questionnaire like this, yes, you know what I'm talking about, let's record a little bit of camera to see. That is the same file Mr Dragan Todorovic has, and is published in the book "The Guardians of Yugoslavia" by Ivan Beslic in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When you talk about the Democratic Party, Mr. Todorovic, here, let me just ask you a few things. How did Predrag Vuletic die then, the general secretary of the Serbian Radical Party? Did you kill your own members? To this day it's not clear? How was Mrs Paraskeva killed, the secluded wing, the husband of Peter Jovic? I can ask you that, but it's not really polite to ask, it's not polite to abuse a pay phone like that. I can talk to you about such arguments, but it's not nice, Mr. Todorovic. The parliament should be transformed into an institution of confidence by Serbian citizens. In this way, it is not discussed and the trust of Serbian citizens is not restored to the institution of Parliament. Mr Todorovic, whenever you mention dead Zoran Djindjic, remember that during his rule, no piece of Serbian territory has been handed over to NATO's pact, as was done during the rule of the SRS. When you talk about Mr. Zoran Djindjic, I do not ask you for respect or respect, because these are human traits that you do not have, but I ask you to, Mr. Todorovic, before you throw a stone at the Democratic Party to see what you have done in your party and what you have done for yourself. When you speak, Mr. Todorovic, of the fact that the criminals performed October 5th, not Mr. Todorovic, it was done by Serbian citizens dissatisfied with your policy, dissatisfied with the fact that you traded the Pecko Patriarch for William Walker's jeep, dissatisfied with the fact that you left the High Decanes as a parking lot for NATO tanks, that's what you did. And when you say that you will defend Serbia, I ask you never to call for Serbia's defence again, because where you were defending Serbia, there were Serbs who were refugees, and the dead were not counted. Please, Mr. Todorovic, never defend me and never defend the Democrats. Please, Mr. Todorovic, keep in mind that Milorad Lukovic, the Legion, on October 5th, did not have three years and wore shorts, but played chess with Vojislav Seselj, and this one adjusted his niche devices on the sniper. Keep that in mind when you talk about Zoran Djindjic, Mr. Todorovic. I will no longer participate in this debate. It's enough, there's no need to raise your hand, no sale of Serbian territory, no NATO stock exchange to sell Serbian territory. You will have the right to speak, but, please, with all due respect, you are talking about Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4730	Thank you. According to Business, counterpart Jadranko Vukovic and Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 226, and this will help with this debate and about Zoran Djindjic and the "yellow" mob organization at all. So, I ask that we be delivered a report from the commission in which Vladan Batic, Milovanovic, Vesenov and the institutions were supposed to cause the JSO rebellion. The commission was formed by the late Zoran Djindjic and this report, Mr. Jocic, knows what I'm talking about here. As for Mr. Milivojevic, Mr. Example, who here talks about Vojislav Seselj in the way he talks about the co-operation file. Mr. Zoran Mijatovic, we talked to him, so he told us what it means, lies ordinary. I've been looking at your cooperation file, sir. When you were in the Resistance and sent from Belgrade a team of DBs to recruit you, they worked with you. I press these from Belgrade to report what you do, how you do, the operative presses and ultimately the report is unusable, Mr Milivojevic. You're operationally unusable. You couldn't even be an associate. Don't play with us anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4732	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think you're being charged with the most serious accusation that you're misusing your official position and protecting some of the SRS. I ask you in writing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to provide an answer regarding the accusations of the previous speaker about the death of certain people or you are really protecting, you know, since I assume Mr. Milivojevic is not talking nonsense here, that he is a serious man, a man who has data, a man who knows what he's saying. I won't think for a moment that Srdjan Milivojevic came out here to talk nonsense just to talk. No, he's a serious man, a man who takes care of what he says, and when he makes these accusations, he has to have arguments. So it's your fault, Mr. Minister, if Mr. Milivojevic knows. You either resign, stay away from that place or deliberately protect those responsible for the death of the person Mr Milivojevic brought here. Please, yes, in accordance with... I really, I'll help you, you said you wouldn't, I'm really watching you, here I am helping you. I agree with you to determine the truth. I don't know what you want. I'm happy when you get out. There is no better argument for Serbian radicals than what they want to say to Serbian citizens than when you go out after a pay phone. Our goal is for you to go out for the pay phone. Your one date for us is enough. That's why, Mr. Minister, please, in accordance with the rules, as it already works at the Ministry of the Interior, you get all this information and to provide me with an answer to all that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4734	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radet, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4735	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that some people can't be helped by MPs, so some other professions are needed, but it is still necessary to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Who can't ask for help, maybe it's not too late. I'm sorry that colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, and that seems to be his manner, did it both yesterday and the other day, comes out here, spits out in the worst possible way, says everything that comes to his mind and then, I guess, leaves an impression, says, "Here, I won't say anything else." Of course, he has nothing to say, nor has he had anything before, nor after what we of the SRS are saying here. Don't bother, don't throw it away and don't ask us why we're nervous, tell this colleague I don't know her name, because she never went out for a pay phone. Now I call you, and please, the camera is gone, the colleague is in third row, to come out for this pay phone once in your life, to introduce yourself to those who voted there in the place where you are from, to see you people. Stop throwing, that's not how MPs work. People's MPs, ma'am, dear colleagues, come out for this pay phone and say, as I'm about to say. I'll remind you, here's what "Justice" says today, "Justice" certainly is a good newspaper, I expected your reaction, it's the only newspaper in Serbia that publishes the "Felton Fifteen Years of Lies About Srebrenica". By the way, when you led me to this, I am informing Serbian citizens that the SRS will organise a meeting of "Truth of Srebrenica" on Friday, at 1700 hours in the House of Unions. I call upon all citizens who want to hear the truth and who want to see the movie about Srebrenica to come to the House of Unions to see it. We do things like that, Mr. Milivoevich, and we're convinced, so what Justice is saying today, we've been talking about it for a long time. We're saying that Sartid is criminally privatized, we're saying that Zoran Djindjic was personally involved through Kolesar in the privatisation of the "Cementare" Popovac. I have told this speaker several times that I have data from people in Paracina that Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic, widow Zoran Djindjic, regularly comes to Popovac, probably to see how her factory works, where her husband left her most of the action. You, Mr. Milivojevic or any of you can't say - you can't talk about Zoran Djindjic because he's dead. We can do it! Zoran Djindjic was a politician, we talked about Zoran Djindjic while he was alive. We never agreed with his policy, because Serbian radicals cannot agree with either treasonous or thieving politics. And that's what we'll always talk about, Mr. Milivojevic, and you think about how it happened when the party of Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister, was in power, to be shot at the same time, that should be your theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4736	Thank you. According to MPs, Mr Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4737	Mr. Home Secretary, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we've been discussing various international conventions, some even came before this assembly after 22 years. We have here a request to confirm a convention signed in Vienna in 2006. When reading this convention as well as reading some of the laws that come here before the MPs, it can be seen immediately that they are written somewhere on the side and given to certain countries. When it comes to conventions, they must be identical. But when it comes to laws and they're almost identical in every country. When it comes to the end it can be seen, I find it unserious, because in all the institutions where I've made these mistakes, you shouldn't steal, and in particular you shouldn't send this document to the National Assembly. Here, for example, on page 59 you will see that it says Bosnia and Croatia. It's clearly a mistake, but the mistake, Mr. Minister, had to see someone from your office, should have been written by Bosnia and Herzegovina. This document if adopted, and I join the requirements of the SRS that this document is not adopted at all, that, like that document that has waited 22 years, this document can wait 5 or 10 years to see if such a document should be implemented in our country at all. Let's say, Article 9. - Liaison officers. I know that for the different activities of the country they exchange liaison officers and that it benefits. However, I would ask you, Mr. Minister, how many now or how many in the last two years do you have a foreigner in your ministry, as exists in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance? We have strangers and simply follow the ministries. Do we now need to take these foreigners or some of them under this form and under Article 9. - Liaison officers, especially knowing that they do not come from these countries covered by this Convention. Next, I think this article 10 is bringing certain dangers. Witness protection, it's a new form that's come up lately. But if that only meant protecting witnesses from this group of countries, it might be acceptable. But we have countries in our environment that have allowed us to have, let's call them, private prisons used by the CIA to arrest and conduct and interrogate people from other countries. That's why I'm saying you don't need to adopt this convention. Especially when it comes to Article 13. - Emergency search. I know there's a need for that sometimes. However, it is always notified to the other party on whose territory the search should continue, especially if you already have such technical opportunities then we cannot possibly allow, as Article 34(1) of this Convention says, to continue to pursue the territory of the other Contracting Party without its prior approval. What is all this, gentlemen, that can turn into? I witnessed, while working in the military in the operating administration, that our territory was repeatedly injured from BiH's territory, on this particular issue. These were not members of the BiH service, but members of the services of some other countries. How do we I.D. them? Only in negotiations with BiH in Sarajevo, the US general acknowledged that even though they had GPRS devices, they were not, as they were, aware that they had moved on to our territory, but he admitted that they had moved on to our territory. So, because of the possibility that there are forces of certain services in our territory, because in the territories of these neighbouring countries with which we sign the Convention, and because it can be used against our country, I am absolutely against it. One of these findings is that officials involved in the prosecution can carry their official weapons; their use is prohibited, except in cases of legitimate self-defense. We've seen what legitimate self-defense means to those who only have the right power. We, by the way, were asked to sign conventions with certain countries that their citizens, especially their employees, could not be held accountable even if they committed a crime on the territory of another country, or on the territory of our country. Macedonia, with which we sign this convention, has experienced it on its own skin. She experienced that her citizens were simply trampling in traffic and that no one was responsible for it. Next, Article 14 - Cross-border surveillance. And so far there has been co-operation and co-operation between the police and the states is needed. However, some things are exaggerated. Let's say, in accordance with Article 34, they continue surveillance on the territory of the other Contracting Party, when it approved cross-border surveillance in response to the previously referred request. That'd be fine. However, in the cases of point (2), it says that, when the contracting party providing the request, for particularly urgent reasons, is unable to submit a request for authority, officials who carry out surveillance shall be authorised to move to the territory of another country. All this is urgent, I don't think it could possibly be accepted, because there are different abuses behind it. And at this point, it's said that the persons doing surveillance can carry their official weapon. You know what our law is like. And I, even though I've spent my whole life with guns, have no right to take my weapons out of my house. So here, you should allow foreigners to wander Serbia's territory with weapons and use it only in cases of legitimate self-defense. Who is it that will determine what is legitimate self-defense to individual powerful men coming from countries that are now Serbian tutors? In particular, this member who says that the identity of those officers who are being watched is protected and that neither the identity of those persons, even when the request is made, is to be delivered. Article 16 – Secret investigation in order to investigate criminal offences, Article (5) says: “In extremely urgent cases, when it threatens to reveal the identity of an undercover investigator, the deployment of a hidden investigator on the territory of the other Contracting Party is authorised without prior consent. "We have many investigators and many spies on our territory. Our Serbia looks like Swiss cheese. If we accept this convention, what will be under it all? It's said again, "the real identity of the official doesn't have to be revealed in the request." So we don't need to know who's coming to this country. Article 26 says: "When officials of one Contracting Party work on the territory of the other Contracting Party, they are authorised to wear their uniforms, official weapons and other means of coercion unless the Contracting Party on whose territory the operation is carried out declares that it is not permitted or authorised under certain circumstances". Again, the use of authorized weapons is only allowed in case of self-defense. If it connects to the possibility of arrest, it means that we are getting this one document that Serbia has never had in history, except when it was occupied. Gentlemen, you will vote for this convention, but take good care of it. I suggest you leave this convention for a while, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4738	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, any bill can be classified as one of the two basic groups. The first group includes bill proposals where the basic idea is acceptable, but some members are not acceptable and then we fix them with amendments. The second group includes bill proposals where even the basic idea is not acceptable. This proposal for a law on this Convention belongs to another group. And why is that? The bill, under consideration, is totally unacceptable and is not intended to be corrected by amendments. The first and basic lack of this bill is an unacceptable concept – that national legislation is in force, if it is not contrary to this Convention. Therefore, our legislation does not apply if it is contrary to this Convention. Almost a normal man would think it was a printing mistake. In all sovereign states that appreciate their dignity, it's exactly the opposite. Any member of any convention may apply only if it is not contrary to national legislation. The sovereignty of the state consists of territory, population and government. No state can have prerogatives in the territory of another sovereign state unless it's occupied. Only the occupation force, the occupier has power in the territory of the occupied state. It is known that, as a result of attempts to establish a supranational government of the European Union, referendums for the adoption of the Constitution of the European Union have failed. So what is not good for the countries of the European Union is excellent, is it not, for some countries in the Balkans, but not for the Ustasha genocide of Croatia and for the country of the imperial cups of Slovenia. It is the fundamental right of every sovereign state to legally exist in its territory only the armed forces of that state. All other armed men who attempt to commit prerogatives to the part of her territory are outlaws, following a new jargon of terrorists. Then it is the primary task of every sovereign state to destroy these terrorists, at any cost and by any means necessary, without delay. The examination of the draft law in Article 13 allows armed members of the armed forces of one state to, without permission, even without any notice, enter the territory of another sovereign state and prosecute and arrest the persons they wish. Since there are no prohibitions in this article, this means that they can be prosecuted and arrested and "interested persons" who are citizens of that country and live permanently on the territory of the other, quasi-suspecting state. Such an action could sooner be called kidnapping, there is only a lack of information on the amount of money needed for such a shameless act of international banditism. Some members of this bill contain de facto elements of the known rules in international co-operation within Interpol, but according to Interpol regulations, only armed forces, usually police, and sovereign states on whose territory are brought into custody at the request of Interpol. More importantly, only the court of that sovereign state decides on the status, the possible extradition of the detained person, or determines whether there is sufficient reasonable doubt for the detained person to carry out the extradition. Most importantly, if the sovereign person is a citizen of the state in which he was brought, the extradition to another state is not permitted, but the trial must take place in the home state, according to the laws of that state. The Interpol APB can only provide incriminating data for this trial. Indeed, it is surprising that Article 13. The bill says that the authorities of one state can arrest all persons on the territory of another sovereign state without any restrictions, meaning even citizens of the country in which the arrest was carried out. In Article 14. The bill de facto empowers the states to send agents, intelligence officers to the territory of another sovereign state to carry out the'monitor', as stated in this article, which is also unacceptable. Even in the Federation of the United States, only the common police, i.e. Feds can act on the territory of any of the United States, and only with permission, most often on call from the local police of the United States. The possible entry of a US armed police force into the territory of another country is unimaginable. It is absolutely unacceptable to Article 24(3) There is no sovereign state that would allow in its territory the unformed faces of another state to wear uniforms, weapons and everything else, whether or not tanks... (President: Time. Just a second, let me say a few more sentences. It's called the right of occupation forces. It is known that military attachés must not carry weapons, perhaps only symbolic sabers, and may wear uniforms. This also applies to official visits by representatives of the armed forces. For this reason, the provisions of Article 24. The bill goes beyond even a shameful agreement, the truth, never ratified, which the traitor and longtime UDBE official Vuk Draskovic signed with a criminal aggression against NATO, on the arrival of NATO troops in Serbia. Just to remind the Belgrade District Court, the trial of NATO criminals -- Clinton, Albright and Solana -- was held. Everyone was then sentenced to maximum sentence, to 20 years in prison. Then there was a terrorist coup in October 2000 and the farce began, the Supreme Court, on order, ordered the District Court to repeat the trial because of petty procedural errors and then appeared apparently, on the orders of Zoran Djindjic, Rade Terzic, as a public prosecutor. He's just dropping the charges and the charges are gone, the trial's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4740	Mr. Milickovic, I'm sorry, you've got twice as much time as you have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4741	I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure when you won't let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4742	Yes, thank you. Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether representatives of the parliamentary groups want or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Here, there's a word Peter Jojic. Let me tell you one thing, Mr. Jojich. You used your 20 minutes, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4743	If I took advantage of the time that belongs to the rapporteur or member of the SRS, I will use Article 226 and I would ask the question, since the proposal for a convention is not regulated, given that Interpol was founded in 1923 by 135 countries and that Serbia is one of the members, and Serbia has signed several conventions and agreements related to police co-operation. I ask the question – whether all the conventions signed by Serbia or the former Serbia-Montenegro or the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be put out of force. Whether these documents signed and ratified by our country and the legal predecessor of the Republic of Serbia will be put out of force. In practice, we'll be signatories and these conventions with these small, insignificant countries in the environment, and we've left our employers out here. We went even to give the version of this convention in English, and with England and America, we do not conclude any agreement compared to this convention. Therefore, if this convention was to be presented in a foreign language to the Serbian public and to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, they think it should have been done in Serbian and Russian, because we believe that the Russian language for us is more acceptable than the English one, which you put first. I'm asking the Minister's question and I'm asking for an answer, please let us know, will it remain in force for all of these conventions, agreements and Interpol institutions, if you adopt this convention? There can't be 10 documents in this country in use, and it's police co-operation. The promoter intended for this convention to unite police co-operation, as I understand it, and I expect Mr. Minister to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4744	Thank you. Before I conclude a unique review of the bill's proposal, does the proposing's representative, Dragan Jocic, want to take the final word? He does.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4745	Now, there's no stranger at the Ministry of the Interior, another thing, we'll know everything that's going on and if this convention applies. I understand the concerns of some MPs, but I have to say something that is a historical fact. When we were most incarcerated as a country, we were best suited to manipulation and twirling. That's what they've been saying for the last 15-20 years. No one gave us this convention, no one was given anything, and we don't have to sign it with any country. There have been many conversations here - Albania, Albania, Albania! We won't sign it with Albania unless it's of interest to us. We will not sign with any country in the Southeastern European Convention unless it is solely in Serbia's interest. Therefore, this convention is only consent. It's not a deal between us and any other country. I thank the SRS MP, I think he said he was a businessman, which paid attention to Article 30, where it is said and where there is a member of the suspension – that anything that threatens the security of our country and other interests will lead to the suspension of this Convention. I would like to point out, as a citizen of Serbia and patriots, as you will, that I will never allow as interior minister to be stronger than the state. That's what led me when I joined and signed this convention. Another thing, honourable MPs, the statehood or sovereignty of a country can be destroyed in various ways, but make sure that at this point, the strongest factor that will destroy the country's sovereignty is crime. Southeast Europe is the site and intersection of serious crime that affects the European Union as well. But let's not be interested in the European Union and it certainly has an interest, when it dictates certain solutions, let's deal with ourselves. Let's deal with the small states, which are listed here, which certain MPs have given as an argument, to humiliate Serbia's signature or to reduce Serbia's signature on this convention. These small countries are the transmission of transnational crime and organised crime that destroys Serbia primarily. Normally, in Articles 1, 34 and 42, there are enough protective mechanisms to prevent the abuse of what we predicted. As one MP said, crime is not in one place and is not in one dive, not in one pot, criminals do not know the borders, even if they do not know the language between them, crime is very widespread and very fast. So this convention is just one minimum of what, if we want to, and we don't have to, sign with other countries to exchange data, to prevent it. I have to say one very honest thing now, and if we are to be honest, we have the most reason to sign this convention, and the most reason for it is for Serbia to sign this convention, because thanks to the work of the Interior Ministry, almost all the important criminals have escaped from Serbia and are in dissipating. If something needs to work, and if we need to act offensively, then this convention is the most appropriate thing for us. Of course, there is always concern and whether something will be misused or not. However, all those who spoke about certain services must say that this is about police co-operation, not the co-operation of secret services. Once again, honourable MPs and opposition and the ruling coalition, I thank you. When we sign the agreements, we're sure to watch everything that's said on your part, which makes sense, and it's completely realistic to fit into those bilateral relations. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-18-0.u4746	Thank you. I am concluding a unique search of the bill. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle and in general in the voting day. We stop here, work continues Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 155 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Nenad Bogdanovic. We continue to work towards the proposed agenda. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Complementary of the INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON SUCCESS AND CONFORMITY OF CARIN PROCEDURES You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. I remind you, according to article 149. Item 3 but corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 37 minutes; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour, 16 minutes; the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes; the Parliamentary Group G17 plus - 22 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the SPS - 19 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of Minors - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the Union of Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - seven minutes; the Vojvodjanski MPs - LSV, SVM - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is the MP, Vlado Sekulic, on this item of the agenda. Consent to Article 149a. Article 3 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. Does the Ministry's representative want a word? (Yes) The word has a finance minister, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
