ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10119	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Since more than one third of the MPs are present, there are conditions for work. I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate all Orthodox Christians who celebrate St. Dimitri's glory today. Since the minister announced he would be 15 minutes late, we'll start when the minister arrives at 10:30. We'll delay by 12.00 hours. [[After break – 12.00.]] One more good day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The quorum was established at 10.00 hours and then there was a break. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT (Principles) The mandated representatives of the SRS and the SPS signed up at the end of the working day yesterday, and then we cut off the work. Do any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups appear for the word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10121	I know it's a great deal of interest and everyone on the Internet is following this trial, so on behalf of the party, I have to be present here on behalf of the law that the SRS considers important, which is the law on constitutional court. Since we often launch proceedings before a constitutional court, then we have a strong need for the constitutional court law to be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, given that the SRS has submitted 29 or 30 amendments, I don't think it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure if you, Mr. Obradovic, gave a word to the Government's representative, that at least two sentences would inform us of what is acceptable to the Government and what is not, and then I would focus this exposure on those amendments that are not accepted, because I think it is illusory that I explain the amendments that the Government has accepted if it accepted them. I would ask, if it isn't some serious violation of our rules of procedure and if Mr. Petrovic wants to, even if any indication, yes, because in the opening statement, I explain 29 amendments, and then you say that he and I are adopted, then we're wasting our time needlessly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10122	Mr. Krassic, would you like to go ten plus ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10123	I don't care. I would like in this opening statement to concentrate our discussion on what has not been adopted as far as our amendments are concerned. I wouldn't bother the audience by why we need a constitutional court law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10124	Mr. Krasic, he'll take the Minister's word, he'll give an explanation, and then you'll continue the exposure. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10125	The amendments arrived yesterday until the beginning of the session, but also during the day, so that we at the Justice Department are now studying all these amendments. In any case, I think that in the most well-meaning way possible, not because of well-intentionedness, but because we're very open that anything that represents proposals that can improve the law will be accepted. At this point, I cannot give Mr Krasic or other MPs a statement on any individual amendment. I think we'll have that by the end of the day tomorrow. In this debate we are in principle ready to hear all the principled remarks, but also suggestions and remarks in particular. It will help our observation get some more arguments, and we can decide in a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10126	Now the word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic. After him, Verica Radeta, then Slobodan Maraš, and again the Verica Radeta, appeared in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10127	Now I've been shortened, there's no need to explain why a constitutional court law is needed and why he needs to solve these three major areas. It's also an obligation under constitutional law. I think it is a good thing that the draft law, as a matrix for this new bill, had in mind the existing Law on Procedure before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and the legal fact of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and what it had in mind, and this is noted, that federal law, the Law on the Federal Constitutional Court. I think it's a good thing it's doing the matrix, because we're one of the few states that first entered what's called the process - constitutional protection. We, as a state, were among the first to go into the process. Many states don't have their constitutional courts, and we're the first to go, in that ideological mile 30 years ago and change. All of our amendments, which probably the legislator could have noticed, were based, above all, on the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But I have to draw attention to you that there are some areas where we simply couldn't intervene with the amendments, because we had the same misunderstanding as with the legislator. You know for a fact that there are several provisions in the existing Constitution guaranteeing the protection of the rights of persons, judges, prosecutors, etc. I think in some subsequent cycle, we need to change this law in that sense that some solutions from future laws on judges and prosecutors would be accepted. And what you have put into the Constitutional Court Act is just something of a principle, and in this law should not be just a provision of principle nature, and we have not touched these provisions with amendments, because we know that this law too must be brought into line with some of the solutions that are specifically derived from the rules on judges and prosecutors. In addition to these termological alignments, which we insisted on, I would only draw your attention that the first of our several amendments should be accepted for the simple reason why the Constitution did not foresee the reason for the end of the term of office - death. We believe that since the Constitution cannot be changed, that, as an objective fact, it should be seen in the Constitutional Court law, and in that sense we have submitted several amendments to who is to see it and we are going to some solutions where, for the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court itself is asked quite a question in the part where the mere finding is. I think you'll accept these amendments, because we have a very bad experience with the end of the term of office with judges, in practice we've had a bad experience, where some judges have been waiting for a solution or for a decision of the National Assembly for a year, and even in a situation where he's retired, or when he's simply asked for a personal request to be resolved, so as the Assembly and its mechanisms meet, goes through the board, comes through the Assembly, that man has long since left the court. I think these solutions are the result, first of all, of knowing the problems in our practice. It's these initial few amendments. I would draw your attention to this amendment concerning Article 15(2). It's a court judge's discharge. There is a very new methodology that is based on the provisions of the new Constitution. We insist that attitude 2 be cast out. We gave one big explanation why that attitude should be cast out. ''The fulfilment of conditions for the discharge of judges of the Constitutional Court shall be determined by the Constitutional Court. ''We think it should be thrown out. Why? Whether the conditions for resolution are met is assessed by the one who initiates the procedure before the National Assembly. Since the procedure can be formally initiated by the President of the Republic, why would his proposal or initiative be conditional on whether the Constitutional Court held a session to determine whether the conditions were met. Why am I telling you this? This is a kind of degradation of the authority of the state authorities involved in this process. Degradation of the authority of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and those two judicial bodies. Do we have this in practice today in our legal system? We do. Where? At the National Bank. That's a bad solution. I don't know what the governor of the National Bank of Serbia did, but we can't get rid of him in the National Assembly, and we choose him. Why? Because there is a provision in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia that says that the council, the monetary board, etc., this singing society, determines whether the conditions are met, so if they conclude that the conditions are met, then we can move on. I must draw attention to you, what you have suggested goes beyond what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't accept, we'll explain this in more detail, but I think there's a reason to accept this. Of course, I don’t want to talk about Article 16 — a health care facility, so the authority responsible for the PIO regulations determines whether someone has lost their ability to work; not every health institution can. That's what we suggested. Article 19(1); either you adopt this amendment or you should practically delete Article 19. Article 19 shall regulate under which conditions may be suspended from the work of Judges of the Constitutional Court, if proceedings are brought against it, etc. I think attitude one is too wide and allows the Constitutional Court itself to in some way commit abuses in judgment. Otherwise, we really believe that it is incompatible with the continued exercise of judicial office in the Constitutional Court, it is a very specific judicial function, therefore there is no permanent function, but a time-limited mandate for them. The alternative to this, if you do not accept the amendment, is to delete the entire article 19, because there are few countries where there are such solutions that the judges of the constitutional court are suspended from work, because there is some reasonable doubt that they have done something, etc. We tried to consider justifiable reasons, so we suggested erasing the first attitude, which is too wide and in practice can cause some abuses. This intervention in Article 21(2) is in accordance with the Law on civil servants' salaries. It's exactly the same formula. So, if he's out of office, he's entitled to six months' pay unless he's hired or granted a pension right in the meantime. In that sense, our formulation practically casts two attitudes out of that article. What follows is the obligation under this law on the salaries of civil servants. You'll probably accept this. It's not everyone's name, it's just a legal or physical person, it's a minor change. I hope you understand that this word "bearer" should be replaced by a participant in the process. In the public debate, in the current practice of this Constitutional Court led by Slobodan Vučetic, there have been many abuses of proceedings. I have to distract you. Once on behalf of the Assembly, I was a representative, defending a regulation before the Constitutional Court, and several times I participated in public debates as a representative of the instigators of a procedure before the Constitutional Court. I have direct knowledge that this is in practice the abuse of proceedings in the Constitutional Court itself. I think the public debate could be ruled out in some proceedings, but we said it was only possible in the process of assessing the constitutionality and legality of a general act under these conditions that are mentioned here. There can't be that much discretion at the Constitutional Court. Because, as you've formulated this, it comes out that before the Constitutional Court, a procedure is being conducted to prohibit the work of a political party and not to be in public debate. I think the purpose of disfellowshipping the public debate before the Constitutional Court is not to speed up the procedure, etc. Public debate should be avoided if there are already principled legal views on issues that are now on the agenda. It is illusory that 16 times public debates are organised on the same issue, and at some times different persons have initiated the procedure. So there's already some legal attitude. The Constitutional Court has already taken a legal position and should only limit it to the assessment of constitutionality and legality, and such is the largest number of cases before the Constitutional Court. We almost didn't have these other objects. As far as the constitutional appeal is concerned, we hardly have any experience on the republican level. There's little experience at the federal level, but really very little, and it's limited experience, since then the constitutional appeal could only be made through a legal person who was authorized by the statute to represent and fight for human rights. You've now given one better formulation that every single person can do it. That is good because that is how we avoid the European Court of Human Rights. Why should 1,800 to 2,000 cases go towards Strasbourg each year, when we can provide for one human rights protection procedure and get rid of it very quickly by the constitutional court taking positions on identical situations, and then these positions of the Constitutional Court enter into court practice, and our courts are more rarely in a situation so brutally in violation of human rights of citizens. That's why our fight long ago was to put a constitutional appeal into the constitutional system. It's precisely because with the Constitutional Court's decision, you get a good and quality legal attitude. This legal position must be binding on all first-degree and second-degree courts, thus acting preventively to avoid any harsh violations of human rights in the process. That way we avoid, we must avoid Strasbourg as one instance. I don't know exactly how many cases there are, but I know that one year there was only 1,800, I think, objects, and how much memory only serves three objects, two or maybe five, has so far been resolved by the European Court of Justice. (Lidija Vukicevic, from the scene: Just five? ) They are also buried there with Ukrainian objects, and especially English. Since I've already taken that subject, England has no respect for the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, you must know, Russia does not respect, France does not respect, Germany does not respect the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. If we want to preserve the Institute of Public Discussion, I completely agree who should be a participant, and the more people should participate, especially these people of legal science, because they need to expose all these views that matter. There's something similar here and in Article 40. Yes, the fact is that the words "unconstitutional and illegality" appear only in one place in our Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's wrong, because it needs to come from something that is the original obligation of the Constitutional Court -- it assesses consent, whether the general act is in agreement with the Constitution or the law. When you say "unconstitutional and illegal", it's something that's done, more jargonically. I don't argue that it was in the existing law, but I think it was a mistake in the existing law and nothing spoils this initiative to regulate this law. Mr Petrovic, so far in our practice, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has been authorised to pass future individual legal acts, which would be passed under some law whose constitutionality is assessed, so the Republic Constitutional Court could issue a measure that such acts are not adopted and such acts are not implemented, but they are rarely used. Two years ago, the most severe abuse in the Constitutional Court was committed. Let me tell you right now that it was impossible for the Federal Constitutional Court to carry out a temporary measure. I think that this formulation, where we have inserted the word "specific", should indicate, means that if a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or the legality of a general act is initiated before the court, and based on this general act, some individual act is adopted in order to act as a temporary measure, a ban on the adoption and enforcement of that individual act, that individual act must be brought forward, and only then is that measure sought. The temporary measure cannot apply to any future individual and general act that has not yet been adopted. We are now suffering because of this situation, the National Assembly is suffering because the Constitutional Court has annulled the integrity and authority of the National Assembly because of Mladjan Dinkic. You remember, there was a law here on the assistance of families and indictees before the UN tribunal, etc. I'm not getting into it. Almost all parties voted in favour of the law, perhaps only the DS did not vote and most political party representatives participated in the draft law. We're not getting into it because it doesn't matter. When the law was passed, a media harangus against the National Assembly began. Mladjan Dinkic said - however the Assembly can pass any law, I will not apply that law, I will not pay any money under that law. They found three or four NGOs to launch proceedings before the Constitutional Court. They literally wrote it on two sheets of paper, but they were sickening where they were looking for a temporary measure - to prohibit the adoption and enforcement of any individual act under the law, until a final decision on the constitutionality of the law was made. Vuketic immediately stamped, gave a temporary measure. So the state must not adopt individual acts, but there is no assessment of the constitutionality of the law. The law was passed in 2004 -- to date the Constitutional Court has not resolved the question whether the law complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The temporary solution remains valid - cannot be followed by that law. What the People's Assembly does-- turkey dots don't work, calm. A public debate has been held, said a decision will be made - no decision. What kind of decision can be - the initiative is rejected, the proposal is rejected, it is determined that it is in accordance with the Constitution, it is determined that two members do not comply with the Constitution. But you don't have any decisions, and everything's blocked. I'm not getting into what's behind this, I just want to stay in the field of constitutionality and legality. I realize that someone has animosity to some people, and I realize that someone is politically evaluating one way or another, but from the point of view of constitutionality and legality, it's a difficult anomaly. So that this anomaly doesn't happen anymore, we have proposed this amendment, and we will especially insist on it, because we have seen that there are possibilities for anomalies in this formulation, if these words don't come -- a specific individual act. So in order for you to seek a temporary measure, you must file a concrete individual act and ask for that act to be suspended until the final decision on the constitutionality of the law. This is how we want to reduce the future work of the Constitutional Court in the borders of the Constitution and the law. So we just want to prevent abuse, evidence of abuse, here's what I said. Next, Mr. Petrovic, all our amendments are extremely good. To tell you the truth, we've written the amendments as if the Constitutional Court were going to be the Executive Board of the SRS. Now, let me tell you, we've been writing amendments for ourselves and we're writing all the other amendments for ourselves, but we're initiating proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The SRS often runs it, and we care about the procedure to be... I'm running out of time. I hope I've managed to point out the seriousness of this subject, the seriousness with which we have approached this topic. I've only tried seven of these amendments in some way to introduce you, but you understand what this is about. There, Mr Petrovic, I say to you - look seriously at these amendments, all amendments are in the function of improving this text and preventing possible abuses, and are based, above all, on experience and on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10128	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. A mandated representative of the SPS came forward, but before him, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Verica Radeta, and then the MP of the people, Slobodan Maraš, then Verica Radeta. You've reported in total three times, but we have to share that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10129	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I remind myself that yesterday, Mr Oliver Dulic, I warned that he had violated the Constitution when he proposed candidates for the Constitutional Court of Serbia and that the opposite of the Constitution, as a senior state official, had given myself more authority than he had under the law and by the Constitution, and that this was, by definition, a coup. Afterwards, Mr Oliver Dulic scheduled a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to somehow win the proposal's legitimacy. He said so when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was scheduled, however, at the very session of the Committee, we faced something that was at least shocking. Of course, we will talk about this extensively when this point is on the agenda, but simply, as a member of this committee, I couldn't help but, first of all, because of the public of Serbia, and also because of the MPs, I am not warning what we came up with yesterday and what we found on that committee. Why didn't I wait for the beginning of this agenda? Because news was released in all the media last night that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that all candidates for Oliver Dulic for the Constitutional Court meet the requirements laid down by law. That wasn't supposed to be the subject of that committee. It is true that the Committee has made most of such a decision and that is proof that they only have to comply with the rules and that, of course, you can vote whatever you want. What have we established? That, for example, one candidate was proposed by the Vojvodjan Group of MPs LSV-SVM; that one candidate had proposed an SVM - List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma; that one candidate had proposed a G17 Plus parliamentary group; that two candidates had proposed SPS. And five candidates we don't know who suggested. Now I'm not talking about these candidates who knew who suggested them, whether they were members of these parties, whether or not, as they meet the conditions, we're going to go to the agenda. We have received five candidates, which I now say to you, also being judges of the Constitutional Court, because it is obviously a deal between Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic, within those ten, sent five agreed to vote here, and Mr Milos Aligrudic admitted yesterday at a session of the Constitutional Committee, when he was brought before the final act, that these five candidates were DSS candidates and that only DS had no candidate in the ruling coalition. Indeed, another explanation, other than what we have concluded, is that there is no, and especially what is all these five biographys, I said, written by the same machine, so Mr. Dulic warned me that this was typed on the computer, and he does not seem to know that the computer is a machine and that this was obviously done after my intervention, and until the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was held and that for these five people we do not have the consent to accept these functions. I'm going to go wider on this in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10130	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10131	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I expected that Mr. Minister, who has been a MP for years, would at least honor the National Assembly of Apology, and as far as I understand we didn't get an apology from the Minister for his delay, that is, not for the two hours we've been waiting for him to come to the National Assembly. I suppose the minister had some serious business, but I think he should have told the MPs at least one word of apology for being late. I have reported for breach of the Rules of Procedure and several members - 225th position 1, 226, Article 77, paragraphs 1 and 2. Unfortunately, as usual, this is not the president of the Assembly, first of all, I wanted to address him, i.e. to ask him why, yesterday, he announced that a Trade Committee would be scheduled and he also announced that he would call on all those who are at risk, or who are considered endangered, or who were threatened by the owners of a company, or the top of a company, and above all he thinks of the state authorities, or the president of the Anti-Corruption Council Mrs Barac. What does it matter? We haven't won yet, and I would ask that, if there is a president of the Trade Committee, to tell us when the Committee will be scheduled, and if it is already scheduled, it is excellent, we didn't get the time when the Committee was scheduled and we learned from the public that all those who were listed as being threatened were not invited to this committee. Why is this important? We are witnesses that indeed the government is standing on the side of a company in charge of a body that is the advisory body of that government. I will remind you, the opening of the Gala water factory attended by Minister Dinkic, the opening of the Delta City, was attended by Mr Djelic, what they said will not be mentioned. Furthermore, what Minister Bubalo is doing, which has been trying for days to change the statutes and as far as we can hear today, is a point in the government, to change the statutes for the branding agency, to allow the vice president of a company to be at the head of the agency and, of course, what Prime Minister Kostunica did when in his cabinet, as far as we know, the contracted sale of Ce Market. The president of the assembly said he doesn't care about "Delta", that he doesn't want any more talk from the assembly pay phone about it and that the Trade Committee should be scheduled. We haven't received until a moment ago that the meeting of that committee is scheduled, it would be good to invite those who are in danger, or those who are threatened, to invite those who are threatening, and I suggest that, since the branding agency is an advisory body, as I understand it, so it will be, according to Minister Bubal, that we also invite the chairman of the advisory body, or vice president of the company to attend the Trade Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10132	The word is made by Minister Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10133	Of course, I apologize to all the MPs and the chairman, I thought the notice had arrived. Since today is the government's session, on Thursdays, I have scheduled a Committee on the Legal System, whose chairman I am before the beginning of this session, but unfortunately we have failed to finish. And, of course, I won't be at the government session, which starts at 13 o'clock, while this debate is going on, but I was obliged to do what I have to do in order for that session to be held. In addition, the budget has been agreed upon, so I ask that you have understanding and that you receive an apology, and I hope that we will continue successfully and end this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10134	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vjerica Radet, after which he has the floor of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is also chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism in the National Assembly, will give all the explanations, and then MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10135	I have actually two injuries to the Rules of Procedure under Rule 226, which are so very connected, so I would ask you, Mr. Obradovic, to speak for a little longer than three minutes, that I would not report again, because I really have no intention of obstructing, but to seek some explanations that I need to perform my parliamentary function.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10136	Since we're going to consider this a notice, I'm going to give you your time back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10137	Thank you. So my first intention was what Mr. Maras asked, where is the minister, and Mr. Petrovic said earlier that he was late for the session of parliament. I can accept that, but Mr. Petrovic knew yesterday that there was this point on the agenda that we're talking about today, where he represents the government, and you had to coordinate those committees of yours, the councils, I don't know what, to move. We had our Constitutional Committee after six hours last night. You could have done the same thing in the government. Why am I talking about this anyway? Because we hear very often that SRS MPs are obstructing parliament's work, and then there's talk of how much it costs a day of Parliament to work and how Parliament's dignity is being destroyed. We often hear this very often from representatives of the ruling coalition, so let's say this morning I read in one newspaper – I don't want to challenge the replica, so I won't say the name, but the MP who said it knows who it was – how radicals sat in front of the computer yesterday and on the internet followed the start of the trial of Vojislav Seselj, and the Democrats were working in parliament. That's one notorious lie. It is true that not only Serbian radicals, but millions of people sat in front of the computer yesterday, those who have the computer, both last night in front of TV and the night before last, and only tonight will they hear what Vojislav Seselj said in his defence, or in the defense of Serbia and Serbian national interests, it will indeed be a pleasure for everyone to see it on the second RTS programme tonight from 21.00 p.m. It is not correct, the MPs of the SRS, all those who participated in the debate, who were reported to speak, were here in the O.R., and the fact that we went and watched, that it was really very important to us and I don't know who it wasn't. My people, five years of Vojislav Seselj, without any basis trapped in The Hague, and we should now be ashamed that we have been eager to finally stand before the tribunal's representatives and the Serbian public and to tell what it has, and it is in the interest of Serbia's defence and Serbian national interests. Mr. Minister, I expected you to say that you had a meeting with representatives of the court's staff. After what you said here yesterday at the pay phone, and as far as their pay goes, believe that people are bitter and that we have had many calls both in the party and in the parliamentary group, and people claim that what you said is false. I'm not saying so, but they say the whole truth is that their salaries are the same as in the state administration. They were embittered by your statement that you have no intention of raising their salaries, so they said we were asking how the ministers raised their salaries, and the state administration employees couldn't raise them. Another question, where do I ask you now, Mr. Obradovic, to explain, since I expect this debate to end today and that the next item of the agenda under which Mr. Oliver Dulic is authorized is to give me an explanation of where Mr. Oliver Dulic is. If you don't know that, I'm going to give you some indication that we've come up with, and I'm asking you to check it out and let us know during the day. According to our knowledge, Mr Oliver Dulic, the president of parliament, left on a private plane to Brussels this morning for the invitation of an NGO. I would ask you, Mr. Obradovic, to try to find out, so let's see, to ask him whose name he went there, who called him, what parliament and citizens of Serbia have since his journey. We are used to his educations, etc., but this is really too much, especially since he is the one who talks about how parliament should work day and night, how someone else is obstructing and he is the one who ruins Parliament's reputation when it comes to the first RTS programme, so he talks about how much it costs Parliament's working day, and MPs spend it talking about the Rules of Procedure, as if it's not Parliament's work. So you understand, Mr. Obradovic, the question, and please, first of all, for the sake of the public, I am convinced that our information is absolutely correct, but for the sake of the public, tell us where Mr. Oliver is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10138	The travels of the President of the National Assembly are in no way secret, especially for the public and for the MPs. According to the information I have, the President of the National Assembly is in Brussels and is there today and tomorrow, but in the course of the day we will provide you with complete information, to you, to all the MPs and to the public, on all the details of your question. That's not supposed to happen in any way, and it can't be a secret. Word by Minister Petrovic
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10139	I'm not going beyond the subject of this agenda, through what I'm simply forced to do in response here to the questions that are being opened. I made it clear yesterday, of course I'm talking about the problems we have with the protest of judicial employees, that I will support every reasonable and realistic request. A reasonable and realistic demand is a change in profits in those frameworks that the 2008 budget can withstand. I am not according to the Constitution and the law that increases, nor reduces wages, nor earns anyone, but I am a member of the government that makes, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, a draft budget decision, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts the budget. Beyond what no one in the state administration, including MPs, ministers, all budget users, can earn any profit. So I will support every reasonable and realistic request. The interest of Serbian citizens is that we live in a country that has a stable economy, and a stable economy is possible if we have a sustainable tax system and if expenditures do not exceed revenue and know it, I am sure, and all citizens of Serbia, and to the MPs it is a simple job and I have no doubt that they share this confidence. We can differ around the shade. About the facts, I have to answer this: no one in the judicial administration has any lower income than the staff in the administration. There are several categories of employees in the judicial administration who earn more money than they have employees in the administration. That's the facts. Another important fact is that the ministry's salaries were not increased, they were as large as they were when the previous government was the executive government. The point is not even put on the agenda, so there are no changes in this regard, and I think there is a full consensus among the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because no one has thought of asking for a profit increase, because it is inappropriate and immoral to increase ministers' earnings, when we have really big problems with the earnings they have in the administration and the average earnings that are just over 300 euros. That's certainly better than it was, but no one in this country can be satisfied with it. It's just important that we be realistic. When we're real, then we have a better chance of solving things faster. Just to answer with these few facts, which are important that you all have as information that is accurate and valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10140	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then a National MP Vladan Batic, and a National MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, since this is a topic that gathers the attention of the National Assembly and the public, that I have scheduled a session of the Trade and Tourism Committee for Tuesday at 1400 hours. I consulted the Committee members, through the service I communicated with the Ministry and the Competition Protection Commission and invited all interested and those interested in participating, and now I do so publicly, to come and attend the Committee sessions, of course in the interest of Serbian citizens, to find out what the truth is in this case. What I'd like to say is that the Committee has jurisdiction over the Competition Protection Commission. Unfortunately, we do not have the authority of the Anti-Corruption Commission as a committee, and I do not see that the Committee could consider the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission. However, if they have knowledge of the pressures on the Competition Protection Commission, I see nothing against participating and seeing what is true in this case. So, as far as we're concerned, I'm going to do it again, and I've scheduled a session after consulting with all the relevant people. I was interested in ensuring that the members of the Committee were present so that we could make a quorum and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we had enough time for everyone to be informed when the session was held. It will be held in the National Assembly building, on Tuesday, at 1400 hours, in the Press Room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10142	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. Yesterday I drew attention to the fact that the Constitution predicted the category, but not the details and conditions, prominent lawyers as a prerequisite for electing judges of the Constitutional Court. We've pointed out a lack of data in the biography of individual candidates. After that, a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was held and quite lightly, without defining the criteria, without any clearer explanation, all candidates were told to meet the conditions for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. I already said yesterday, and again I draw attention to the fact that, meaning some minimum criteria of the concept -- a prominent lawyer, only two of these 20 candidates from both lists can, with a strained interpretation of the concept, be under the category -- a prominent lawyer. The problem is other species, too, which the law predicts will be elected by judges in time of nine years. Mr. Minister, one of the candidates is already retired. Five of the proposed 20 candidates next year will be pensioners, 2008. Only two of the 20 candidates that are scheduled can, I can speak but be well-intentioned, welcome them to be judges for the entire nine-year term. Then what's the point of the idea? The bottom line of the idea is that they are currently elected, because six are members of political parties, of these 20. So, party court, hold the water until the masters leave. So what are we doing all this? So once again I would insist that we define the criteria and make another triage at the level of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs based on such defined criteria, because otherwise this is a complete farce. So, all I'm asking is that we have one high-quality court, so it's a furry one. For your question, Mr. Minister, when on the agenda, since there is clearly no time until the new year, there will be a set of laws on the regulation of the judiciary or the organisation of the judiciary, which under the Constitutional Law had to be on the agenda of the Second Session. There's no time physically anymore. So let's be objective and honest -- people, we can't comply with the constitutional law provisions because of that and that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10144	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last year at Mitrovica on November 8th, at the second special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the home of the National Assembly, a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was declared. As Mrs Radeta has just raised the question of the absence of Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, I am reporting in accordance with Article 31. Rules of Procedure. I am amazed, as one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, that the president of the National Assembly has travelled today when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is given, which shows his relationship to this, for the history of the Serbian people, certainly a significant date. But also the relationship between the Democratic Party and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because Dusan Petrovic, who was two hours late today, did not go out for a pay phone and congratulate the MPs and citizens of Serbia the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am taking this opportunity, since I heard that Mr. Obradovic had already done it at the beginning, to congratulate you, honourable fellow MPs and you, Mr. Chairman, colleague Mrkonjic, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to congratulate Mr Tomislav Nikolic, his family and all those who celebrate Mitrovica today, because it is not by any chance that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted just today, at Mitrovica last year. It is no accident that today, on the day of the constitution – when Serbia must fight on its own from last year, but to fight in the long run to restore what our century-old Serbian country – the president of our party after five years, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, began his defence, or the destruction of The Hague tribunal. I believe that, although you have had the opportunity today to follow the Internet, especially individual leaders of the Democratic Party and MPs who knew absolutely nothing about it, not the history of the Serbian people, nor how Serbia was defended back 17 years and over the centuries, tonight in a delayed transfer to the Second Programme of RTS can learn from this lesson about the history of the Serbian people, which is the first hour and a half of the opening exhibition, from today's four hours of his opening words, to learn much from Dr Vojislav Seselj. The synthesis he made not only as president of the SRS, which he did today for the entire Serbian nation, for members of all the national minorities he mentioned today in the most positive context, those who wanted to stay in the community with their Serbian brothers, will make today the first year after the constitution was adopted, he established new foundations and values in international law in The Hague. And we Serbian radicals here to remind you that you don't care about the interests of the state and the people, because if you did today Oliver Dulic would be sitting here today, he would also invite Predrag Markovic, because that was some order, which is the former president of the National Assembly, to come here. Today, the MPs in one, even briefly, in the solemn atmosphere of 10 or 15 minutes would mark the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution. This is how it remains for us to do so with the elected President of the Republic, who will certainly be Mr Tomislav Nikolic next year for his cross glory and that somehow at that time, if God, and I believe in the perseverance of Dr Vojislav Seselj, we wait for him to return to the country as a winner.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10146	I thank my colleague Natasa Jovanovic for all these congratulations, and I join absolutely all of her congratulations and her beautiful wishes to the people who celebrate fame today, of course, and Dr Vojislav Seselj. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10147	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, first of all I would like to tell Mr Stefanovic – who is the chairman of the Trade Committee, I am pleased that it is scheduled for Tuesday at 1400 hours – I believe in your goodwill, but what you said, the only one you can call, is the Competition Protection Commission. I would suggest something to you, quoting Rule 78 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 4 and 5, where it says that the Committee's work can be attended by both professional and scientific workers, and in carrying out the work of its work, the Committee may, through its chairman, request data from the Ministry and other republican authorities and information of importance for the work of the Committee. Given that the Council for Corruption, whose President Verica Barac, against whom a criminal report has been filed by the Delta Company, is a state body, or body established by the government, which should as an advisory body assist the government in the fight against corruption, I think there is all the ground to call and Mrs Barac, as she is currently the most vulnerable person on the issue. I would also suggest that you invite Mr. Deedier from the Competition Protection Commission, and I would suggest you call Minister Bubal because I think his participation in this whole story is very important. I would like to refer to Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, just to comment, since she commented on the relationship of the President of the Assembly towards the Constitution, or the Assembly, the only thing I can say is -- what the Constitution is, is the president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10148	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word has been given by MP Milisav Petronijevic, so Vladan Batic, and again by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal not to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but to the article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, according to which MPs have the right to be informed of everything that is going on, is in the interest of doing those jobs they have. I'm asking this for a reason why it's very urgent. I'm looking for a notice, and I'm asking for the National Assembly to be notified as soon as possible of the following. While today one part of Serbia's citizens, primarily the government, celebrates paraphrasing the Brussels Agreement, the other part is skepticalally wondering what it contains. The life of an ordinary citizen cannot come first. From what he looks, we've just received one piece of information. In Belgrade, Banov Brdo, on the street of Pera Todorovic No. 34 is one apartment building of 54 apartments, which houses refugees from Croatia and BiH. As we speak here, there's an action under way involving police, firemen, etc. to move these refugees out. I'm looking for information on what's going on, considering that the citizens are upset, because that picture that's being seen there, around that building, looks like an action being conducted against some terrorist group. It is about refugees from Croatia and BiH, and it is about an action that is under way, involving both police and firefighters, of course, media, etc. I ask as soon as possible to inform the authorities and to note that there are refugees from Croatia and BiH who have no place to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10150	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, then by the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, an explanation and I urge you to do something about a judicial strike. Yesterday, I was well-intentioned to do so because, by living circumstances, I have some experiences on this plan, the situation is not changing. Unfortunately, she's getting worse. This is more of a question for the finance minister, but inevitably also for the minister of justice. So it's not an explanation, Mr. Petrovic, when you say there are a lot of employees in the judiciary. It should be a matter of strategy, of justice in the future, but that doesn't explain the difficult material position of employees today. It's not even an explanation when you say it's a difficult position and employees in the authorities of the administration. It's completely true, but it's not an explanation. I can ask the question to your explanation - what about the directors of public enterprises, who have a salary that is like an annual or two-year salary of employees in the judiciary? Councillors, ministers' advisors, not to mention tycoons, not to mention one plane flight, and there are a dozen totally pointless flights. One flight like all court employees earning during the month. If we make a comparison of this species, we'll go far. Today, Belgrade-based justice employees were backed by the presidents of all five Belgrade courts and the chairman of the District Court, and the campaign continues. I was in a county prison in Belgrade. It's starting to get mixed up there, too. I'm just distracting, appealing, and asking for urgent action, because there's going to be complete anarchy and chaos. I'm going there, by the work I'm doing, and I'm uncomfortable because I'm an MP in this House, I don't have an answer, I don't want the whole situation politicized. Yesterday you did not answer what I asked you - how much debt did Minister Stojkovic leave you? I fully understand your position, but we also need to understand these people's demands because I repeat once again, when people see some in Serbia rich, I guess they have families, they have children, they think they'll survive and what they're going to do tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10152	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. I apologize, Mr Dusan Petrovic has the word before the People's MP Neboja Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10153	Of course, everyone chooses how they will deal with different topics and MPs are elected here by citizens and have an inalienable right and obligation to discuss each issue. I understand all MPs who deal with a lot of concern and attention and this question, because that question is worth it, I mean a protest that is currently in the judiciary. It wasn't the idea to make any excuses. The relationship between government employees and employees in the judicial administration appears as a topic only because the issue was governed by one law and because the law passed by this Parliament in 2006 and which came into force on 1 January 2007 levelled the employment of employees in the state administration and employees in the judicial administration. The law also found that in those cases where earnings are employed in the judicial administration more than the salaries of staff in the administration, the issue and the subject will be settled so that the salaries of employees in the judiciary will have to wait for the increase in the salary of staff in the administration. I would like to say that it is necessary, in order for this situation to change, to adopt the law in this House, and all of these are the topics that are being debated. It is quite near to my senses, and I am quite aware that one category of employees can't be a comfort for another category of employees, but all MPs know well that profits can be as much in the amount of money they make, that the budget depends on how much taxes are collected. I won't comment on this subject at all. So once again, I'm going to say I fully support all those requirements of the judiciary staff, the administration, which are real and which can be achieved. If I said otherwise, I would not tell the truth, and I will not deceive anyone, nor can I promise anyone more than the citizens and the people of Serbia can pay. If he has an idea, how to get more money than he now has in the budget, I'm sure he's also the finance minister and the Prime Minister will be very pleased to hear any proposal which, as far as I can figure out, can consist of either introducing new taxes or increasing existing taxes or in what collectively is called printing money. So, I support every requirement that is realistic and I believe that in all these consultations on the new budget, so the proposal for the 2008 budget will be found space to improve this state of affairs as far as possible and that it is very important that everyone, with great well-meaning and caring for each other and taking care of the state, conduct talks and negotiations on this topic and that is my appeal to everyone who participates in this debate, regardless of the position.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10154	I thank Minister Petrovic. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will once again mention that I have called, as chairman of the Committee, the Committee on Trade and Tourism, for Tuesday, at 14.00 p.m., precisely in the interest of clarifying everything that is unclear about this situation that has been mentioned for several days and is in the interest of the National Assembly and citizens, of course, to make it clear. Of course, it was primarily to secure the quorum, since you know that I am the chairman of the Committee of Parliament's opposition and that the quorum would exist, it is necessary to be attended by MPs of the parliamentary majority. Since I think I have a deal with most of the parties in principle, that this committee is held then, that's when I set it up, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it and all this stuff that we said to clear it up. Also, I'd take the opportunity, when I've already answered my word to say about this item on the agenda, to have this inexplicably reminds me of the election of members of the State Auditing Institution. We also held a session where political parties proposed members, allegedly independent state-owned audit institutions, who should in fact control total budgetary spending in this country. Now we have again that the parties are proposing the Constitutional Court judges, in no case at all, with the principle that these institutions should be fully independent, we have not proposed candidates, because if the party proposes them, any party, that they will fully carry out their work independently. Now we have a situation, and I respect fellow Socialist Party of Serbia, who then tried to propose two members of the State Auditing Institution, which was on the Committee, of course, guess, that only the candidates proposed by the government parties, or the ruling majority, have passed. Therefore, I fear that the choice of the Constitutional Court judges will go similarly, that there will be proposals that will come from the ruling majority parties, there may be proposals for those who are not, but of course no judge who is not proposed by those who rule Serbia will pass. So we'll get the Constitutional Court again, like all other institutions, which will slowly, but surely go under one party control, and there's no talking about serious and stable independence. So I would ask you to seriously consider this issue, whether Serbia is slipping into one kind, whether it is one-party or multiparty, but a party state, which has no stability and the strength of the institution, which will be able to deal with all the challenges that we have today in Serbia, and certainly many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10156	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The word is by MP Zdravko Topalovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to stop by the Rules of Procedure for a moment, so after one discussion, we can continue. Mr. Peter Jojic, you're right behind Zdravko.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10157	Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, Mr. Mrkonjic, members of 225 and 226. My esteemed colleague Petronijevic from the SPS pointed to a real current problem. Today, they tried to move the Belic Mirko family from 34 Pera Todorovic Street to Banov Brdo. It's the municipality of Cuckoo. By the way, let's note that this is the home municipality of the Belgrade mayor, Mr. Alimpic, who we know has come to the post. Let me just point out that these are DIPOS' apartments, it's five soloists, and it's a terrible situation. The right to tell you, these solders are abandoned, not maintained, and DIPOS takes economic rents from $100 to $400 a month. I'll point you to another problem anyway. Mr. Belic Mirko is a refugee from Republika Srpska, was in captivity at the Ustasha camp. The problem would not have been allowed for them to all, as well as other employees of DIPOS, and they as long-term users of these apartments, and apartments and purchases. They're not allowed to do that. I must say, the public knows that on October 26th, the Serbian Radical Party helped the Shujic family from that building not to be forced to move out. Today my colleague Zvonko Mihajlovic also helped the Belic family. I have to mention another problem at Chukarica, it's an asbestos settlement. Having no place after the war, following the NATO Pact's aggression on our country and Kosovo and Metohija, the Bulatovic Branko family, Tatjana and two blind children of 14 and 13 years old, Luka and Jovanovic, found refuge in the asbestos settlement, on the street of Komovska 5. Their eviction has been announced. The children are blind, attending a special school in Zemun. Mr Bulatovic Branko was a member of the Serbian special unit MUP, wounded in Kosovo and disabled. He has lived to be stripped of his official weapon, has no compensation for being wounded and threatened with emigration. The settlement is no longer for housing and it is very dangerous to live in an asbestos settlement, but simply this family has nowhere to go. The MUP has no solution and they do not want to give them temporary accommodation, and according to some of our information, a municipal apartment on Žarka Pucara Street on Chukarica has been emptied and has been described by employees in the municipality, i.e. One of the management of the municipality, I end up, thank you, not giving this family a chance to settle temporarily. Otherwise, little Luka, although blind, is the winner of numerous awards and medals, as a young and perspective chess player. It is necessary to help this family, and it should certainly be, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to inform the city administration and everyone in charge of finding some temporary accommodation for this family, because it is in catastrophic condition. Mrs. Tanja doesn't work, Mr. Branko does, even for some information he was close to suspension, neither guilty nor due, no means to live, children are blind and receive 5,000 dinars to help with their disease, which is terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10158	I thank Parliamentarian Zdravko Topalovic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10159	Mr. Vice President, I asked two parliamentary questions 20 days ago and asked the National Assembly president to give an answer. I asked what salary for 2005, 2006 and 2007 was the director of JAT. Second, how much was the director of the airport's salary. According to us, JAT's salary was 16,000 euros; the director of the airport was 12,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, with 16,000 euros, 85 salaries of judicial employees, with a monthly salary of 15,000 dinars, could be paid from 15,000 to 18,000 dinars. And there are those who have, as he said, a fellow Serbian Radica Radeeta MP, there are 9,000 dinars. So when you add up two directors, they receive the monthly salary that 150 employees in the judiciary should receive. I'm looking for an answer, and I'm going to insist that we get an answer: is that correct? On the other hand, I know the position of the minister of justice. Mr. Minister, the situation in the judiciary is extremely difficult, especially when it comes to administrative workers. Judges and prosecutors have been raised, but administrative workers are not. My opinion is that, in order to improve the position of employees in the judiciary, especially those with low salaries, it is a proposal that court fees cannot be entered into the budget, so that the finance minister deploys them and pays from the budget of the JAT director and the director of the airport, because these are salaries from the budget, because they are public enterprises. On the other hand, my proposal, also, Mr. Minister, is high time to amend the Law on Court Taxes and to go to court budgets, to form a court budget and to keep court fees 100 per cent. It has nothing to do with the finance minister. This must also be affected by the minister of justice, because he is headed by a judicial institution that, in any case, can and should contribute to improving the position of judicial employees. One more question, if you'll excuse me. I ask the question: when is the proposal of a constitutional court candidate being made, why is there no candidate in law, if she is a constitutional category? You have prominent lawyers and experts in law enforcement. The bar is probably responsible for that with those who put together a list of these candidates. During the Informburo, lawyers were persecuted and placed on the blacklist. Many have ended up as informers on the Gol Island, many have been prosecuted only because they fought for justice and democracy. If the lawyer is a constitutional category, the lawyer must also fight for certain constitutional and legal rights and the protection of the fundamental and elemental rights of our citizens in Serbia, which they represent. Noting for the third time, a lawyer is a constitutional category. My remarks this time are solely the fault of the Serbian Bar Association.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10160	The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, and then, according to Business, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10161	By the way, I've been patiently waiting since yesterday afternoon to get word from the regular procedure, because I'm the president of the SPS Parliament Club. So, I'm not answering for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm reporting in terms of the subject we're talking about. At first, I would like to say that the need and interest of Serbia is to have a constitutional court. Serbia today does not have a constitutional court. In Serbia today, you have no one to complain to if you think there has been a violation of the Constitution, a violation of constitutionality and legality. In Serbia today you have a situation where there is no one to judge what is in accordance with the Constitution or what is not, so different things happen, such as. that yesterday, the Constitutional Committee discussed whether the proposed judge for the Constitutional Court met these criteria or not, which is absolutely not the authority of the National Assembly Constitutional Committee. I'm also saying this because you're all aware, starting with the minister and beyond, that the deal you've reached inside the so-called. The ruling coalitions that by the end of the year you will call the elections in accordance with the Constitutional Law, that it can lead you to a very difficult situation, in which the crisis will re-emerge between December 10th and 31st in interpreting the threat of national and state interest and the threat to Serbia's territorial integrity and integrity. The following situation may arise: even if it is estimated that this interest is at stake, the question is how will you get into a situation so as not to discuss the elections without changing the constitutional law. And to change the constitutional law, you don't have enough two-thirds majority. If we don't have a constitutional court yet, then we'll get into an even harder situation, that you literally have no one to complain to. I'll give you a concrete example. RIK gave an interpretation at the beginning of the election process that municipal presidents could be candidates for MPs. On this basis, the SPS has run on its list and the presidents of municipalities. When the elections were over, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest gave an interpretation that this would be a conflict of interest. The committee is not competent to determine who will be the Messenger and who will not. We have two MPs who are presidents of the municipalities and we ask that the Constitutional Court give an interpretation of whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Where's your constitutional court? So if we wanted to respect the Constitutional Law, we should have discussed this by the end of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly, after the formation of the parliamentary majority, that is, after the start of the work of the National Assembly in the new assembly. It is obvious that there was no opportunity then, no political readiness, no parliamentary majority, to do so. The SPS believes that it is very important for this country to have all the institutions, and that means that it has a constitutional court. We believe that this bill could have been better, that it does not define all the details of the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and that it also leaves this problem that we discussed here yesterday -- when it is said that the Assembly is proposing, who is actually proposing it in the Assembly. We have also brought the very president of parliament, who only played a role in uniting someone's proposals, into a situation where he puts the signature below what the Parliament's proposal is. We've discussed this more than once, so I don't report to all these agenda points. It has been tried to make an agreement between political parties, to have parliamentary groups present their proposals, not their members, but their proposals for judges of the constitutional court. It has also been tried to make a certain political proportion and that there is some agreement, such as was agreed when permanent delegations were formed by the National Assembly in international institutions and organisations, where it was also signed by the president of the National Assembly, but based on the agreement of parliamentary clubs. Some political parties did not want to participate in this, and the SPS submitted its two proposals. We have no reason to hide it. We want to form a constitutional court and we have made two proposals on this list. Of course, if someone asked me, I could sign for some other candidates who were on this list, so whoever you choose, I'm sure the SPS will have a majority in that part of the constitutional court. A lot of them used to be SPS candidates and I don't mind. I'm glad you remembered them. You weren't always ready to stop by signing it. We have nothing to hide. We've proposed two candidates. Some who are here were even members of JUL, but not on our side. They weren't proposed by the SPS. No, they're not proposed by the SPS, they're proposed by your coalition partners, Mr. Ristic. So, from your coalition partners in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you don't have better personnel than JUL did, then I don't even know how you rule at all. Just do it the way you do it. But, okay. Well, this is a woman, too. I made a little joke, I don't think that's the point. The Constitutional Court in the past period, unfortunately, was not a constitutional body that protected constitutionality and legality. He was a body or body that participated actively in politics. I'll just remind you, during the handover of Slobodan Milosevic, the federal constitutional court declared the government's zero regulation at the time. He also said it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's constitutional court has not moved to do so. You have further, the SPS challenged before the Constitutional Court the mandate taken from us by Branislav Ivkovic's party, with the help of some former DS structures. The Constitutional Court did not answer exactly how much they needed Branislav Ivkovic. They just called after that. I am rightly in favour of anyone who complains that his mandate has been stolen, but be correct to the end and say that the SPS was right then. And no, you, on the basis of a letter from individual SPS members who organised factions within the SPS and on the basis of a letter sent by the chairman of the Congress Committee, Bane Ivkovic, concluded on the Administrative Committee that the internal problems in the party were such as to await the meeting of the SPS of that Banet Ivkovic, to see who was right, who was wrong. What gives you the right to talk about it? The Constitutional Court, of course, didn't react to all that at all. The Constitutional Court has reacted to it several times. Of course, he did not react to other attempts in the next term of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, etc. In all, even the president of the former Constitutional Court was a political activist of one of the parties to your ruling coalition. He was a political activist for the SPS, he was a candidate for the first election on the SPS list, then he was in the G17 leadership, but it doesn't matter, he was eventually the President of the Constitutional Court, I have nothing to say. Now there are some who appear here and wonder how political parties propose candidates. Wait, who's been suggesting this so far? What, they were falling off Mars? What, are some scientific circles not proposing candidates? They always suggested political parties. Don't play political hide-and-seek. That's why we here openly and honestly suggested two candidates, because you asked for it. Will they be chosen? I don't know. We have proposed our candidates for the audit institution, you have failed to respect them. Both of our candidates are better than the ones you've chosen, because your candidates don't even meet the conditions to be, and you haven't even reported to defend them here. We also proposed candidates for the National Bank of Serbia Council, etc. We have officially proposed two candidates here, but on this list of these 10, I think we have at least five or six candidates. Therefore, whoever President Tadic elects, I am sure most of those five will have just as many SPS candidates. Of course, I'm kidding, it's a big question whose side they're on today, but here's just a question of whether you, who have been fighting the SPS all these years, are ultimately admitting that the highlight of your proposals is former candidates and members of the SPS. Your proposals, highest and best, for the highest organization and institution are our former members and candidates. Thank you. We haven't been able to get a confession like this in a long time. What are our current members to you, when the former members are in high places like this? Of course, I'd like to ask the minister, yesterday the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was initialled. Turkey initialled it a long time ago, but it hasn't signed it yet. I don't want to make a parallel, I'm sure there's more than a decade. I'm asking you, since they've been published in the media in part of it, what does this part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement mean when it comes to Cosmet? He says the agreement will not apply in Kosovo and Metohija. Does this mean that the EU is receiving Serbia inside without Kosovo and Metohija? Does that mean anything? Say it means whether it is in agreement with that resolution we adopted here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, within the same department, at least that's what the media says, Serbia is committed to leading a good neighbourly policy. With who? Is that true of Kosovo? Did we commit to leading a good neighbourly policy with Kosovo? Did we initial it? If we initialed it, who authorized who to paralyze it. I certainly didn't empower you, nor did the MPs of the SPS. I don't think you were authorized by the other MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we ask that these topics be discussed here in Parliament. The state delegation that is discussing Kosovo and Metohija cannot come up with new ideas and initiatives in the negotiations without us reading about it in the media, resolving the situation of Kosovo and Metohija and the status of different principles, Hong Kong or any other. And if they are tactical moves, this is being discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I think it's time to hold a session of the National Assembly, because we're getting close to that December 10th. That December 10th was important to us, not because you will hold the elections or not, and whether someone will prevent or help Tadic become or remain president, but because this country is really waiting for the problem on December 10th. From what we're seeing, we're not clear about state policy in the next period, are we stepping down from our proposal. What's our proposal? Essential autonomy. Our proposal is Resolution 1244 and essential autonomy. Our proposal is not Hong Kong, because it was not adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one has the right to change the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until it is decided here. Secret diplomacy can be conducted, but it is decided in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it says in the Declaration that we adopted around Kosovo and Metohija. I just want to say here about these tycoons. Of course this opens up another kind of problem. I am only saying this because there is a member of the SPS, a former high-ranking official also named Pavel Domoni, but in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, there is a head of the New Sad office of the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights in Serbia, Pavel Domonia. But it's not ours, it's probably one of yours or theirs, I don't know which one, who said yesterday that Kosovo should be independent, and Vojvodina should get Hong Kong status. The solution to halt chauvinism and violence in Serbia is for Vojvodina to gain Hong Kong status and for Kosovo to be independent, Domoni said at a press conference in Novi Sad. Since this belongs to your portfolio, Mr. Minister, since the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights deals with the issue of Serbia's internal arrangement and future status of Kosovo and Metohija. In all normal countries, such statements would have caused a ban on the work of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights. At least he deserves your reaction. Because it is not a domain that this committee deals with, it deals with the protection of human rights and human rights violations, not with the resolution of the status of Vojvodina or Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I'm just asking that when you talk about tycoons, don't call them "Milosevic's tycoons." Much more those tycoons of yours became after 2000 than they were Milosevics. They may have set off at the time of Milosevic, they may have earned the first million, but they've earned hundreds in your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10162	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic spoke. I'm sorry again, Mr. Batic. I'll give the word to Mr. Secretary again. Here you go, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr. Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10163	Just to answer Mr. Dacic's questions that I can answer. As far as paraphrasing is concerned, we talked about it yesterday, and I think we did one very important thing for the citizens of Serbia and that in the negotiations that preceded us, the initialling on the one hand and the agreement that will, of course, take effect when the procedure in the parliaments of all EU countries is over -- we managed to bring Serbia one step away from the EU. I'm sure this will be a very important thing for a decision that is primarily political, of course there are also very significant technical and security-technical aspects, which is to get the status, as it is usually said, on the white Schengen list. I think it is very important for Serbian citizens that they can travel across Europe as soon as possible, and that they do not need visas, as is unfortunately necessary now. When all the agreements that are signed and confirmed here, when Parliament has ratified them, we will have, I am sure, since 1 January a much easier visa regime for several categories of citizens -- for pensioners, students, professors, and for business people, and that this will be one big step that will bring us back or allow us to come into a better position so that we can fight better, I mean the citizens of Serbia and all of us, for all of what is possible for the better life of our families. In this position that Mr Dacic said to define that the agreement parafisculating Serbia's territory outside Kosovo and Metohija, I don't think it's complicated at all. It was regulated by Resolution 1244. With the Security Council's decision in Kosovo, reminding ourselves all together, the UN administration is responsible there under these circumstances for regulating the various aspects of national and everyday life. That's how the government of the Republic of Serbia could negotiate for this area in question. This, of course, is fully in line with the efforts, above all, of the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic, in this major diplomatic struggle aimed at defending state territory. I'm not getting into it. I'd just give one grade. The proposal tabled by the negotiating team does not go beyond the mandate given by parliament to the negotiating team. Hong Kong is part of the People's Republic of China, it's part, part with a very specific regime, but it's part of the People's Republic of China. We are in the framework of the mandate and the guidelines she gave, the framework provided by this assembly, the negotiating team is struggling to keep Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, which is the state goal. I haven't heard of this statement from the Helsinki Committee. I'm sure if there are elements that could lead to the initiation of the procedure, that's what those in charge will do. It's not the Ministry of Justice and it doesn't run the register of the Association of Citizens or anything else. I don't see that there has been a problem with freedom of speech in Serbia so far, with freedom of expression, and certainly there will be no future. It is good to have the Constitutional Court established as soon as possible, because he is under the Constitution competent to deal with these issues. Here, I am taking the opportunity and a good clagworth has given Mr. Ivica Dacic to have the Constitutional Court in place as soon as possible, that we will then have an institutional, constitutional body, which will be able to make measuring decisions on such issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10164	I thank Minister Petrovic. The word came from Ivica Dacic, a replica. Right behind that, Dr. Vladan Batic. Mr. Batic, wait a minute, we're just giving one to Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10165	I answered about what the minister said. Of course, Resolution 1244 has been defined that the government in Kosovo and Metohija is carrying out UNMIK, but sovereignty has been defined under the sovereignty of the then SRJ. I am much more concerned about this second sentence in what I read, which is -- that Serbia is committed to having good neighbourly relations -- what, with whom. It's in the Kosovo section. That's why I warned if it was about something like that? Serbia can, of course, enter into a negotiating process around Kosovo and Metohija to give different ideas, but I would only return to Resolution 1244. She's talking about essential autonomy. So when we talk about different models of essential autonomy, the Hong Kong principle is very different from what the government, or the state negotiating team, has proposed so far. It may be a good tactical move, but all of this should be discussed and decided at parliament sessions. In doing so, I respect the need not to have big public debates and our negotiating tactics presented in advance to our opponents. It can also be held closed parliament sessions, consultations, talks and arrangements between the heads of the parties located in the Assembly can be held. That is why we propose to discuss Kosovo and Metohija again in the National Assembly before 10 December, because I don't think any subsequent debate will solve the problem afterwards. I am sure that Serbia will again have a political crisis from December 10th to 31st, which will primarily be based on two things that you did not agree in the ruling coalition, which is -- who will assess whether state and national interests are at risk from December 10th to 31st, and that it will be less threatened by state interests in January. Let me tell you right now that I'm sure they'll be more threatened in January than in December. So, can the Constitutional Law change if there's no two-thirds majority? And of course, does the ruling coalition have one presidential candidate or more? You've reached an agreement, and you're already preparing to go with two presidential candidates. You have reached an agreement, and the agreement in fact means only delaying the crisis that Serbia will re-enter after December 10th and that date that was set as the beginning of some final development of Kosovo and Metohija's future status. I once again said, the SPS will vote for this list of candidates, because all political parties have been invited and we have put forward our proposals. In the end, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I forgot earlier, but I'm in charge of saying that on behalf of the SPS, and I've been talking about it, not wanting to mix up the subject and not reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. There was an incident in Kruševec between a senior DS official and a president of the MO SPS, who was 78 years old. Namely, the vice president of the Municipal Committee, the director of a special hospital at the Fishing Pool and your candidate, as you say, for Mayor Kruševec, has done serious physical harm to that man he said physically attacked, and I don't know how a 78-year-old man could, even if that is possible, be so prepared and inflicted serious physical injuries. I don't want to get into who's guilty and I don't speak party. I don't think it's appropriate for the man who was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be dealt with in this way with anyone. It is about Branislav Katancevic, director of the hospital, whom the Serbian government has appointed. I don't dispute whether he's a good man or not, but that's not the manner in which the Serbian government has appointed him to deal with anyone in this case with a political opponent. It's an invitation for you within the Serbian government. You just have to react to this. In Kruševec, press conferences are being held, TV teams are being broadcast, in Kruševec talk about it, and I am obliged to say it on behalf of the SPS, and you are obliged, as the Serbian government who appointed this man, to talk to him, to determine all the facts and to see if it is possible for him to remain in such a function or not, because it is also your face.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10166	The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, followed by MP Rajko Baralić, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, MP Slobodan Maras, MP Dragan Vujadinović, MP Srdjan Milivojevic and MP Svetlana Kitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10167	Mr. Chairman, you are discrimination against DHSS and I as DHSS MP. You've called me three times, so you've brought me back, I've had the advantage of being a DHSS MP, reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, compared to Mr. Ivica Dacic, you haven't allowed me to speak, but I'm apologetic, so I forgive you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10168	We'll take the time back, that's my apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10169	Dacic spoke for six minutes. I understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10170	You must understand party discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10171	That doesn't justify you, Mr. Chairman. He's referring to Mr. Secretary, and I don't think there's any need for you to answer things that don't concern your portfolio, no matter what they do to the government. But indeed, here I have also experienced that Ivica Dacic, as head of the SPS parliamentary group, supports my proposal as DHSS MPs, that the negotiating team lay down accounts for the Serbian Parliament on what it is doing. That's what other parties' MPs are asking for, but there's no answer. A friend of mine, an aphorist, Ilija Markovic from Novi Sad, on this smart proposal for Kosovo's status to be arranged in Hong Kong, wrote one aforism -- as far away as Serbia is from Tokyo, you know what Serbia is to Tokyo, so much Kosovo from Hong Kong. To return to what is related to you, Mr. Minister, that is to your portfolio and this topic of the agenda. I've asked more questions, and it would be good for you to answer that. What do you think is a constitutional category or constitutional term - prominent lawyers, and is it respected on the lists of candidate judges of the Constitutional Court? The answer to the second question - are the people who are supposed to be retired under the PIO law already now able to be candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court? Should next year's pensioners be elected Judges of the Constitutional Court for a period of nine years? Is it normal, and there's Mr. Dacic right, that party, party people, party members, be judges of the Constitutional Court and then it won't be a party court, not a constitutional court? He's right, Mr. Dacic, that most candidates...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10172	Please be quiet. Once again, I return to Vlad Batic time, a man cannot speak, do not be angry, but there is no point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10173	So most of these people were SPS members, now they're members of some other parties. The party people can't be judges of the Constitutional Court. It's a bar, I guess, and birds on the branch clearly; party members. It's stupid enough for the parties to propose, but it's also stupid enough to be party members, so that doesn't make any sense. Something that can be a suggestion, Mr. Minister, about that subject that's unpleasant, about the strike in the judiciary. And a question and a suggestion. The budget envisions and the money is likely to arrive, or say what is happening to them, for 1,100 projected, planned employees in the appeals, administrative and cassation courts, and the money is foreseen by the budget. Are those from the budget arriving at the Department of Justice and can they redistribute that money to employees in the judiciary? That's one question. To those who work, who are not virtual workers, employees in virtual courts. Secondly, can at least in the projected budget for next year, so that you can absorb these dissatisfactions, in that department of court taxis, single out a higher percentage for judicial employees? I think that would solve the problem, because it is a shame that some directors of public enterprises have four thousand euros in salary, and employees in the judiciary 200 euros, i.e. that the director of a public enterprise has 20 times the salary of someone who works in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10174	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic called, and then I suggest we give a break, and behind the break is the first Mr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, then Slobodan Maras, and Dragan Vujadinović, and Srdjan Milivojevic, and Svetlana Kitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10175	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 225, paragraphs 2 and 3. Mr. Minister, in March of this year, I submitted an amendment to the Law on Courtships and proposed that Cačak become the seat of the Court of Appeal for the area of district courts Užica and Cačka. The government has already said that it does not accept the initiative. I am patiently waiting for these deadlines to run in a regular 90 - day session and for the National Assembly to declare this. I now inform you that there is agreement in Chačka between all political parties, including yours, that there is agreement between the two district courts on this matter. The initiative is supported by the Royal District Court as well. I'm simply asking you to declare this properly. Now I'm telling you publicly, if you're willing to accept what is the subject of the amendment and the addition of the law that I have submitted, and possibly you mind why I or the SPS did it, I will be very pleased to withdraw the initiative, so let your MP, Dr Costa Milosevic, write it the same. The SPS MPs will vote for it. It is important to us that Cacak be given the Court of Appeal and be the seat of the Court of Appeal, it is completely irrelevant whether he will do so on the initiative or request of one MP from one political party or others. This is supported by the Bar Association. I don't want to call you about it anymore today, I'm simply asking you to give me the right answer, because I think that's a very important question. I'd like to get into a situation where we can talk about this here, offer arguments, tell you how many cases it is, what kind of interest it is for that region, because according to the current solution, it's the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. We don't see that in an effective way with four appeals courts of which one Kragujevac, who was in charge of our territory, will be able to solve this matter to the satisfaction of everyone in the state in the way we think it should. So, the MPs have all of this, and you have, and I ask you to make this clear, to come to the opportunity to talk about this, to offer arguments, and then to get the right decision. Thank you for listening to me very carefully, for the last 30 seconds, especially.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10176	I give my word to Mr Dusan Petrovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10177	Quite briefly, a few notes. The answer to Mr Batic and some other MPs. Of course the Syntagma is a prominent lawyer is one legal standard. That legal standard of price, for each of these proposed candidates, two instances, one that suggests the other that chooses, and there is no one outside of it who can evaluate, nor has a right. So, this parliament estimates who the prominent lawyers are, when it elects from a list of 10 candidates that the president of the Republic sent to the Serbian Parliament. On the other hand, when parliament sets out its proposal of ten candidates, it will also assess who the prominent lawyer is. This is one guiding norm and a directing legal standard, I don't think it's disputed and I guess there will be a lot of disagreements about it among the MPs themselves, but I don't think that's the thing that's unnatural. On the other hand, around the court fees someone has reopened the debate here, the judiciary budget is 22 billion dinars in 2007, something over seven billion dinars will be collected from the court taxis. So, it's a very small possibility that by redistributing the court cabs we solve this problem, 60% of the court fees enter the judicial budget, the rest goes into the regular budget. So it would be great to pick up more than 22 billion dollars of court fees, but it's just not a real thing. As for what Mr. Baralic was talking about, that's a very dedicated question. We establish all the criteria necessary for the network of courts, both municipal and county courts and appeals courts. Appeal courts are a constitutional institute. When we propose here a law on the Supreme Cassation Court and the Court of Appeals, this will be one big issue, and what I can certainly promise you is that we will objectively determine the number of cases in one year, the needs of citizens and efficiency, the urgency of the judiciary. Of course, in addition to his independence and honesty in his work, there are three elements that will be specific when we make a decision on all issues, including whether or not he will be the seat of the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10178	I'm taking a break until 3:00. The first speaker will be Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10179	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10180	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting under Article 226 because I am afraid that in the morning part of the session I did not understand you very well, namely your comment when it comes to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. What's this about? In fact, you yourself said that the Payments Act had entered into force and started to apply since 1 January of this year, and we all felt that any new law would bring about something better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10181	Mr. Dimitrievich, you need to interrupt the exposure for a moment. One of the points of the agenda are parliamentary issues at this session, which was not usual earlier. Otherwise, parliamentary questions are raised at the end of all agendas. We must respect the Rules of Procedure and the point written that they are parliamentary matters. Therefore, it is clear and understandable that we are acting that way. You have again called for a member and the use of the Rules of Procedure, and that we already have time for this session. You must call on or another member of the Rules of Procedure, that some procedural questions or your parliamentary rights have been violated, but do not use 225 and 226. It's already been arranged.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10182	Mr. Chairman, may I have a word? Have you changed the Rules of Procedure and is this some newspaper that we MPs really don't know about? This is the first time something like this has happened. I must warn the public that I did not expect to warn the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that my basic parliamentary rights are being violated here. I have the right to know, Serbian citizens have the right to know things, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to leave the pay phone without wanting to violate any discipline. The Socialist Party doesn't want to behave like it's inappropriate, but you think hard and I expect you to be correct and give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10183	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I'm reporting for violation of article 200. Rules of Procedure. I asked the Minister, Mr Petrovic, from this same pay phone on 9 October of this year. The question referred to how it was possible for one who was in custody to give an interview to a daily newspaper. After that, the next day, as the day before, Minister Sutanovac replied that he had nothing to do with the gentleman, or man, I expected that also Mr Petrovic, the minister of justice, would come forward through the media. You didn't answer and then I asked that same question. That's when the president of the assembly said that I was very incorrect and that I didn't wait until there was a certain amount of time. Article 200. The rules of procedure say that the government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. The written reply of the Government, or the Secretary-General, shall be delivered to the MPs. Exceptionally, if certain facts requiring a longer or more complex analysis are to be identified in the preparation of an answer to the parliamentary question, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but not more than 30 days. Today is November 8, day 30 from the day I asked the question and the answer to that question has not yet been received. I just wanted to remind you, Mr. Petrovic, and that's why I used this right to report to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I will participate later in the discussion and try to draw attention to some failures in the Constitutional Court law, but I ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10185	The People's Messenger Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10186	Here, this time I will quote the Rules of Procedure and the current Article 226 which says, and I ask you to take away this time, because I quote the Rules of Procedure: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers, officials etc." Now, Mr. Chairman, may I continue my story? In the morning part of the session, the minister spoke about the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, he also provided certain information and said the law came into force on January 1st this year. Do you, Mr. Minister, believe that this law has brought something better or something bad to the workers of this large segment of society, employees of the administration, the judiciary and public enterprises? It's certain he brought something good, but a small number of people, and a larger number of workers, he certainly brought something that's much worse. Namely, what was the essence of this law? The essence of this law was that they were all put into the same basket, that they were all put into one so that some of the few could be rewarded, and that the more numerous were taken away, and that with a large range of coefficients, which the union was asking for to be reduced, and that you did not answer, made even greater social differences in this large segment of society. Is that, I remind you, what you said in the 2000 election campaign, in December 2006, when you promised, and now you claim to have compassion for these people? Whether you're going into opposition or anyone who wants to help these people, who you said -- who wants to help say what budget positions are being removed from to give to these people. One explanation of the positions of the budget: one decides who is in power, not the ones who are in opposition. You have no right to have compassion because as far as I know, you are not in opposition, nor are you in the opposition part of the government at the moment, because the Democratic Party has given your ministerial post and the post of Minister of Finance. The SPS has the right to point to the problem, it is ours to feel for us because we are in opposition, and by the time we were in position, we really wanted to help to the extent that the SPS took part in the government and how much it could, and now, unfortunately, we remind you that you are in a position, that you are in power and that you must not have compassion, but you must help these people and specifically respond to what will happen to the coefficients, whether the differences in the coefficients you have promised will be reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10187	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrievich, you've quoted Article 226 again. I would like to note that at this session, the 6th item of the agenda - Parliament issues, which refer to the spectrum of questions from art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. It was never on the Serbian Parliament's agenda. We cannot try to use a session of the Assembly to ask questions as the minister arrives. I don't think it's fair to the Rules of Procedure, to ourselves. I let you go, but I'm really asking you not to. I had the impression that we had agreed on it and that it was a matter of procedure and in the procedure there was one point of the agenda. I'm really appealing to everyone. National MP Svetlana Kitić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10188	Dear Vice President, Ministers, People's MPs, Mr Albianic, I call on Article 201. I will read to you: 'After having answered the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. So I got an answer to the parliamentary question I asked, and that's when and why there's still no taxes on baby equipment and baby food. I've got the expected answer - it's being prepared, it's being, it's going to look at itself. (President: Please focus on the work. ) It is common when it comes to the endangered layers of our society, such as pensioners, children, displaced faces, Roma, rural population, disabled and poor, which are growing every day. Your slogan is-- life can't wait. That's exactly why I'm talking to you. I don't know if kids can wait to be born. For months now, until exhaustion, we've been bringing in various declarations, agreements, emergency laws to enter the European Community, but for a moment, we stop and separate from the irrelevant. Is approaching the European Community more urgent and more important than real problems? The real problem is that babies are getting rarer or not born at all. Let's stop for them, for the babies. At the request of His Holiness, the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, accepted the proposal to abolish the equipment tax. (President: May I have your attention, please? ) So, Mr Vojislav Kostunica has accepted the proposal to abolish the tax on equipment and food for babies, but nothing concrete has been done on this issue, which means that, to this day, there is still a tax on baby equipment and food. You know that the SPS has repeatedly launched the initiative, and before the Serbian patriarch's proposal, to abolish VAT on food and baby equipment. Then we instructed the reasons why it was important. We all know that the white plague of hara, that we are among the four oldest nations in the world. This way again requires the SPS to lift the VAT on baby food and baby equipment, because babies can't wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10189	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10190	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would use this exposure to make one general finding that such a bill will be supported by the Roma Party, that we will vote in favour of this law, because we believe that Serbia should define its institutional framework and that it is simply an imperative of today, an imperative of time. This law offers a lot of good solutions. However, in our opinion, there is room for him to be dressed up and in that direction, I will say only two things that we think should be further defined. One question that should be further defined is the question - when the Constitutional Court judge can speak and comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, can he comment on it during the proceedings, can he comment after the proceedings, and how does he comment on it? Does he comment in a positive sense, that he always speaks in the spirit of reasoning about the decision made, or does he have the full freedom to comment, to express his own opinion? I don't think this definition in Article 3 gives us enough space to be able to say reliably what he can do, what he can't do. In this sense, we have submitted an amendment only to processfully create space for ourselves to define this question in one conversation, with the Minister and with the Committee, and we are prepared to write the amendment of the proposed text in the spirit of one who supports both the creator and the author of the law. We've got a few options. We support the variant that, while any member of the Constitutional Court - a member of the Constitutional Court, he must always speak in the spirit of reason. However, this does not oblige him enough to speak in the spirit of reasoning after making a decision. This creates a certain space for politicizing the whole issue. Another thing I would ask the minister to try to explain and listen to us is a question - to whom can members of the Constitutional Court address and which students can they convey their knowledge? In Article 16, and in accordance with the Constitution, it is defined that the Constitution creates a space for the law, to exempt certain activities that may otherwise be considered as a business in ordinary life, but in this law, that the exact definition is taken in the spirit of this law as a job. In that sense, some exceptions are listed. For a short time, I'd read what our definition says. I think we should put in "science" here in front of "cultural and cultural, humanitarian and sports society," because there are two possibilities: or we should delete the list and say only that it can be a member of a society; if we're already sorting examples, it's logical for people who are scientists and judges, because we know where we choose them, to be in the first place, to allow them to be members of scientific associations, and not for example. sports clubs, etc. On the other hand, in Article 16(2), we should move on as well as give a lecture on the invitation to colleges. '"Be careful what situation you have today. The Constitutional Court judge can go to law school and teach law students. The same judge cannot go to the Faculty of Political Sciences or at the invitation, without compensation, to pass on his knowledge to students of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Serbia. Also, the same judge, if we talk about European integration, cannot appear at some European university and defend the constitutional concept, decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and thus make our good practice affirmative in Europe. Let's take it one step further. There are a lot of good colleges in the world that give great lawyers. Why not allow these professors, or judges now, to hold certain lectures at some universities outside Europe at the invitation. Why am I saying that? They can do it under this law, but how? I'm setting up a humanitarian aid association, I'm calling on a member of the Constitutional Court to be a member of that association, this association is building a project with the Yale Faculty, and he's leaving as a member of my association, because he has the right to meet the association's programme, there to give a lecture, but he can't give a lecture without a membership in that association. So we would just make it possible this way, I think it was also a request from the legislator, the textwriter, that maybe we agree on that as well. We just need one option to define it in the text. In that direction, I ask the Minister to accept these amendments, because I think there are enough arguments that speak in that direction. Otherwise, I'm willing to perform a certain redefinition of the text, a change, if there is a flaw in the text of the amendment, but in any case, let's do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10191	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, then Rajko Baralić, then Maja Lausevic, then Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, our people have one saying: "As I have been married, I have hoped well." I'm the first one on the list, waiting two hours yesterday to get to my turn, and here I am after a day and a half and I'm finally in line. Well, I didn't say this saying about it. I said it for one other thing. The first two speakers, who really spoke about this law, which was Mr. Marton and Mr. Krasic, as two opposition MPs, really had a good, constructive discussion, referred to this law and said how important and important it is, praised some of its provisions, said they felt that some things should be changed. To expect it was given this subject which is very important and which we have today on the agenda that the discussion continues in that direction, because indeed there is one text that many things depend on. There is a text before us that, until it came to this assembly, we debated the Malteses every day in the Rules of Procedure, calling on why he was gone, why he was not brought in, and finding various reasons. So, the discussion was just by opposition MPs going in one real trash, so later on, they took another direction, went a long way, and today we lost the whole day talking about other things. But so I don't fall into the same trap, to get back to the subject. So, I'll go back to the Constitutional Court Act. When, a year ago, on this very day, we brought the Constitution, among other things, we were all proud of it and were full of our mouths to lead a new institution and some institutions that already exist and to give new powers and new competences. We all inherited it, that we participated in the adoption of that constitution. And indeed, the previous assembly of this assembly had something to be proud of after 180 years of Serbia, as an independent state, for the first time, was the Constitution. As one of the most important institutions of this new constitution is the Constitutional Court. The importance of the Constitutional Court is indeed so great that the discussion of this topic and this item of the agenda should not turn in another direction. Namely, the Constitution itself is an entire part of its VI part devoted to the Constitutional Court, which also confirms its importance. In Article 166, he very clearly defined the position of the Constitutional Court, saying it was a independent and independent state body, which protects the constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. In its second position, he also prescribed that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding. So, we're talking about an institution that's really at the top of the pyramid of state bodies, where we all need to look at it, we're talking about an institution that the existing Constitution has given us the right, a constitutional appeal to address it directly if some of our rights are violated. We are talking about something that is important in our legal system and in our country that, as the previous assembly council had the privilege of participating in the adoption of the Constitution, this assembly council may have the privilege of passing a series of laws in the development of the Constitution, which we passed last year, including this constitutional court law. I'd only be short on one part of this bill, given that I'm the first speaker on this list, and that there are more than 35 registered and of course other colleagues will probably process something else. I would be detained in the decision-making process and in violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. I'd stay at this part for a number of reasons. One reason is that this part of the Constitutional Court law, among other things, speaks of that no one is above the Constitution and the law, nor is the President of the Republic himself. I think it's not only legal, it's also civilizational fluid, which is incorporated into this law, and that, as such, it needs to be pointed out specifically. Here are the very clear conditions and the way in which it is determined whether the President of the Republic has potentially violated the Constitution, the possible sanctions that exist, who makes the decision on the matter and in what way. Namely, this substance is regulated by Articles 93 to 98. The bill we have before us, and it gives the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose component we are as MPs, the right to initiate the decision-making process and the eventual violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. Following the initiation of this procedure, i.e. an initial act by the National Assembly, this act shall be delivered to the Constitutional Court. In order for it to enter into legal proceedings at all, it must fulfil at least three conditions, i.e. as such it must contain the legal basis on which it is being initiated, the provisions of the Constitution which have been violated and the evidence on which the act itself is based, i.e. evidence on which the President has potentially violated the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, when it receives one such act, or when such proceedings are initiated, shall forward that act to the President of the Republic for an answer. It may be necessary to intervene here, possibly with some amendment, because it is foreseen that the Constitutional Court itself sets a deadline within which the President of the Republic should respond to this act. Although a deadline of 45 days is foreseen, within which time period the Constitutional Court is required to decide to implement the whole procedure, perhaps some amendments here should intervene and set a deadline within which the Constitutional Court is required to deliver this act to the President of the Republic, and he should be obliged to give his answer within a certain time limit. Given the number of amendments, it will be possible for us to consider this issue more carefully in our discussion of amendments. Article 94. The draft law stipulates that the Constitutional Court will schedule a hearing, that this new debate is being called upon, on the one hand, by the President of the Republic, and on the other, by the President of the National Assembly, that during this debate itself, the Constitutional Court is limited to deciding only on the infringements of the provisions of the Constitution set out in the Act of the National Assembly on the initiation of the procedure, not possibly on some other issues. Following a decision on whether or not the President of the Republic has violated any constitutional provision, the Constitutional Court shall, on the one hand, forward the decision to the National Assembly as an initiator, as an initiator of the whole procedure, and, of course, to the President of the Republic, as an authority that may have done the injury, which is why the whole procedure has been initiated. It is therefore provided for in Article 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure of 45 days from the date of the submission of the Act of the National Assembly to initiate the procedure, within which time the Constitutional Court is obliged to make such a decision, which is good, because it prevents any volunteering and delaying proceedings or even non-compliance, and we have had a lot of discussions in that direction. It should be mentioned, within the framework of these provisions, that there is the possibility that the Constitutional Court and suspend the proceedings, therefore, should not be quantified by the Act of the National Assembly, but that the procedure should be suspended even before the measuring decision on the act. Two cases are provided for: firstly, if the National Assembly withdraws an act to initiate the procedure; secondly, if the President of the Republic ceases to act in the course of the proceedings. Finally, the decision on the Constitutional Court and on the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic has legal fact since the date of delivery of the decision to the National Assembly and, as the provision of the Constitution says and what is later contained in the law itself, such decision is final and binding. So I've been paying attention here to a specific procedure that is probably not going to be applied in practice often, or it won't work on it, but it's very important that it exists in this law, I would once again say, because in our constitutional order, by adopting a new Constitution and constitutional court law, really no state body, no institution in this country can be above the Constitution and the law. It is these provisions of the dam according to the possible behavior of someone who is at some point the President of the Republic, whoever it is. Finally, I would like to invite all the MPs, given the importance of the law that we have on the agenda today, to call again on how this session has seriously taken place by considering this law, that everyone is making a major contribution to a constructive discussion. We have a good text of the law in front of us, we have a law that is well and trade-written, which is quite clear, which has elaborated the provisions of the Constitution concerning this matter, we have a lot of amendments, I hope that the Minister and Government will accept some of the amendments that will probably improve this text. We have before us a law of utmost importance and, in relation to the importance of the topic that we have on the agenda, I think we should all act as well. In any case, DSS and NS MPs support this text of the law, with any minor changes. We will all gladly vote in favour of this law and definitely establish a Constitutional Court in this country, because this country and this people need it more than necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10193	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure, which says, "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Every time, from this moment on, when MPs from the ruling majority begin their debate with a sentence – here, for two hours we are wasting our time on the Rules of Procedure, and we are here to work, we want to talk about the topic of the agenda – every time I intervene in the Rules of Procedure, not just me but most of the MPs of the SRS. My colleague, the fact that you just tried to explain how serious you are, and we are inconclusive, showed yesterday at those motions for judges of the Constitutional Court, but we'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. I remind you of those two days last week, when DS MPs appeared after every debate of the SRS MPs who said whether by amendment, by the Rules of Procedure, that in the principle debate, because you were then tasked with reporting and wasting time. What you've been doing is obstruction, and what we're doing is doing according to the Rules of Procedure and the work that needs to be done by the MP. The fact that you've been doing those two days to stall the session until you see what the drone and drone are going to agree on, that's your problem. Then you couldn't stall any longer, so then two days we were without a session of the National Assembly, for no reason at all, without any explanation. I remind you that at the time, one of the vice presidents chaired and only said, "We have completed today's work, and the day for the vote will be notified to you by the President of the National Assembly." I can see that you don't listen to what's on the agenda, or what's on the Rules of Procedure, because if you did, there would be, gentlemen of the DSS, I always count you, otherwise there's not much of you, and today there are five of you at this moment. It's easy for me to count it. These yellow ones are 11, that's a little harder for me. I will do this every time because we here, my colleague, are doing not what you like, we are being sent here by the citizens of Serbia and we are doing what is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, as has been spectacularly started today, and so will our President Vojislav Seselj end up in front of The Hague tribunal, on behalf of and for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10195	The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, a replica of the presentation of the Messenger of the People of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10196	I'll be very brief. I know Mrs. Radeta understands a lot of things. I didn't know she was into beekeeping. However, it is approximately familiar with drones and drones. There are also those who are queens and who care about both drones and drones. Without the queen, there can be no bee company. We're the ones doing what the queen in a beehouse does, and you're dealing with drones and drones still, that's your problem, not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10197	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Read the article, you'll find some reason for my announcement, especially to explain some things when it comes to beekeeping...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10199	This is Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10200	As far as this community is concerned, who is a drone and who is a queen, this was best explained to us by Zoran Djindjic in 2002 at the time of the presidential election. As for the members themselves and their roles in that bee community, I must tell you that the role of the queen is to lay eggs and the workers work. You're supposed to be working here, rotting to do the job you're supposed to do, and then after that, what's right. We are pleased that you have managed to finally join the drone and queen in that community. There's nothing to argue about. What's the problem here now? This love flight may lead to a problem between you workers, perhaps it will no longer suit you that drones and queens bring you into situations where at one point you are against each other, and then you are allegedly together, and then you turn out to be the wrong MPs of the SRS. No, we want you to be together. We've been trying to connect you all along. That is why we have not made it difficult for you in any way to come to the opportunity to form a coalition government, because we want to eliminate all of you in the elections together with the votes of the citizens. That's our target. You used the best way to get us, and you'll see that when the election comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10201	Thank you for this contribution to the development of beekeeping in Serbia. We can continue in order. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10202	I'm surprised you don't know anything about bees, but we'll do it next time. Mr. Albianic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the Constitutional Court is a subject and allow me to, before I speak a few sentences about the law itself, conclude that in Serbia, in one continuum, which does not serve the honor or so on. the original or this so-called. A redesigned DOS, there is an exercise of power without the constitutional court. I remind you that was the case in the first DOS government as well as in this one. I remind you that in a state where there is no constitutional court there are no conditions for the state to be considered a democratic state. It is very important that we adopt this law today, although this should have been done before. I pray he does not respect us that we have done anything wrong. In full compliance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of Constitutional Law, we have warned, within the first regular session after a constitutional session, that, as provided for by the Constitution, judges of the Constitutional Court must be elected and constitutional court established, and that we can say that we live in a state where citizens have legal certainty and in which they can exercise all rights, the protection of their rights, in the way it seems in all normal and democratic countries in the world. That wasn't the case here. The debate on the Constitutional Court's draft law should help convince Mr. Minister, as the Prime Minister, to accept some of our amendments and improve the text of the basic law and to see if we can vote or not for this law. In any case, I would like to say once again to the citizens of Serbia and to all of you, dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, that the MPs of the opposition parties have done nothing here, that MPs of the opposition parties, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have been warning in good time for several months that this job should have been done earlier. He, unfortunately, was inaugurated with some other political relations in the coalition itself. It is a real problem that you will solve as you have solved it so far, but just let us know that it exists. Also, I hope that by adopting this law and by electing the Constitutional Court judges, Serbia will stop the negative practice that the Constitutional Court was an instrument of executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, when it was forced to remain silent, unresponsive, inappropriate, in an untimely manner, to maintain the DOS in a way that does not serve anyone who participated in the government. Mr. Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS, spoke of three drastic cases from this negative practice. I won't mention them. I just want to express hope that this will no longer happen, as well as that certain judges of the Constitutional Court will not happen to be the speaker of political parties in certain delicate political events and situations, as a judge of the Constitutional Court has done on behalf of the DS, for example, for three years. So I'm simply asking you to propose and choose people who won't do this. The SPS, when we talk about the personal composition of the Constitutional Court, had the courage to sign an explanation and accept the candidacy of two honest people, professionals, and to say that the SPS stands behind them. They're not members of the SPS, and they have our full support. Some other parties didn't do it. I must say, I've looked at some of the candidates' biographies. I am very interested in which political party will take political responsibility for the expertise and political neutrality of Mr Dusko Celic. I can't wait to see who's going to say this is our candidate. Otherwise, Mr. Duško Celic, except that he wrote that he was an intern in some variants and that it was a reference to him to be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, did not write that he was a member of the CK presidency in the last meeting, that he was the founder of the SPS, that he was a member of the IO SPS, that he was with Neboja Covic, that he was with various others, that he had seven party books. How is it possible then, in accordance with certain members of the Constitution, it will be politically neutral. Who's behind him? To whom does he guarantee that the Constitutional Court will perform its duties in the manner provided for by the Constitution? Come on, please, we're serious people, and I have to say that we're here and because we remember for a long time and because we know everything that any of your candidates have done. When they come to the agenda, we'll bring you biographies, see exactly what they said, what they did, in whose name they did it, and how they became politically neutral after 10 years. A very interesting debate will take place when it is on the agenda. That's what I had to say because I'm asking you, dear colleagues, that when you propose to someone behind you, you stop. Some parties have not suggested anyone and it is legitimate, they do not want to propose to anyone, it is their political position and we do not compromise. Also, I'd like to comment on just a few members here, but Mr. Shane mentioned it here. In the Constitution, unfortunately, there is one illogicality, I must say, with regard to restrictions on the performance of this judicial function in the Constitutional Court, or incompatibility with someone else, and it is said that only professors of law can be at the same time and judges of the Constitutional Court, and that these others have to determine whether to do so or not. Let me read a list of courses at the Faculty of Law that have absolutely nothing to do with constitutional law, say: national history of state and law, the basis of the sociology of law, legal information, copyright and industrial property rights, criminology with pedology, social law, traffic law, the right of the economic system, etc. Now it can happen that, for example, a professor, such as Professor Vladan Kutlesic, who is a professor at Megatrend University and is an expert in constitutional law, can't do this, and someone who, for example, is a professor at Law School and teaches traffic law. It's totally lame, I have to say, this is completely inconsistencies and, unfortunately, the Constitution has restricted it to be like this. This is a constitutional restriction, and it's not a rule of law, so I was simply obliged to say that this is a bad solution in the Constitution, because people don't get in an equal position. Why can a professor of political science or a professor at some other universities, who have very connections and who have a strong reference in the area of constitutional law, not be, and some others may, I hope, have a discussion in professional circles. On behalf of the SPS, we have submitted a ten-command and we will talk about them when we speak in principle. We tried to fix the text of the law. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to consider them and to accept what is possible, to decide whether or not we can vote for this law. We want the Constitutional Court to start working, we want this law to be passed, and we want to put an end to several important issues, to the violation of the Constitution and the constitutional law in the past few months, which exist or have been common to these political turbulences of yours in the coalition itself, and I must say that you have the responsibility to end this matter in one way that corresponds to the citizens of Serbia. So there's going to be an opportunity when we talk about amendments to say a few more things. For the last time, please, I want to remind you once again, because of the citizens, I want to do it for you, there are colleagues among you who have been MPs here since 2000. So, there was a period when the Constitutional Court was embarrassed, when it shamed the institution, when it shamed the law, when it embarrassed everything there was in the world, and it was related to this, when it was the instrument of a ruling coalition, to ensure that at the cost of life and death that the ruling coalition had 126 MPs. I'm talking about mandates, so-called. the mandates of the so-called political parties, so-called leader Branislav Ivkovic. When the Constitutional Court in one way, which is transparently rude, so it is true that using that term, it was silenced to ensure that stolen mandates are counted in mandates that help to maintain power in Serbia, which are designed in Vesic's kitchen, which in various other ways have been abused. What I'm saying is that among those people who went there were a few honest people, but they had impossible pressures. These pressures applied to their families, to unsuspecting crimes, to various threats and threats. These days I hear that one of Vesic, Zoran Vesic, will rise again. I warn you, you will be welcomed by a salva of arguments if you do, because the Vesic brothers are a sublime evil of humanity. What they did to people here, it's a violation of human rights. We'll give you the details. Goran and Zoran Vesic are former DS personnel and you from the DS do everything to stay ex. Otherwise, we'll talk to you in a way that will be very unpleasant for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10203	The People's Messenger Maja Laušević has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10204	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the Constitutional Court. The draft law on the Constitutional Court shall be governed by the Constitutional Court (the chair of the Members' notice to install the microphone), the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's work is public. Any person may request that he be given insight into the case files and all in accordance with the law governing free access to information of public importance. The procedure before the Constitutional Court, therefore, is conducted in Serbian using a Cyrillic letter, and the bill, Article 5(2), allows for the official use of other languages and letters. The procedure before the Constitutional Court shall not be subject to tax. In this way, the legislator actually tried to avoid discrimination and to avoid denying anyone the right to file and initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Participants in the procedure before the Constitutional Court shall bear their own costs if the Constitutional Court does not determine otherwise. As stated so far in Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, decisions of the Constitutional Court, are final, executive and general binding. The Constitutional Court has a Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court's work. Chapter 2 of the Constitutional Court Act deals with the election, appointment and termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court makes 15 judges who are elected and named in a manner prescribed by the Constitution. At the time of their entry into office of the Constitutional Court judge, they swear an oath before the President of the National Assembly. Incompatible is actually the function of the Constitutional Court judge with any other function, except for the law school profession in the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Constitutional Court judge cannot be a member of the political party. It may be dismissed in case it violates the prohibition of conflict of interest, permanently loses its capacity to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court or be sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or an act that makes it unworthy judges of the Constitutional Court. In the course of the procedure for determining the fulfilment of the conditions for resolution, the Constitutional Court judge may be removed from office. The Constitutional Court headquarters is in Belgrade. The Constitutional Court has a president. The President of the Constitutional Court is elected by the Constitutional Court judges of its composition, on a proposal of at least three judges, by secret vote, for a period of three years. The President of the Constitutional Court shall represent the Constitutional Court, convene the sittings, propose the agenda and chair the sittings, coordinate the work of the Constitutional Court, take care of the implementation of acts of the Constitutional Court and actually perform other duties laid down in this law. Article 29 The draft law on the Constitutional Court is normable as to who the participants are in the process. It's very interesting here, and I have to notice a very well-made distinction between the authorised promoter and the authorised initiator. Why it's important we'll see later. So, the participants in the process are state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities, local self-government units and MPs. So, the initiator is every one whose initiative is to initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality. The previous procedure can be stated that it finds analogy in the Law on Criminal Procedure and Suspensions to the Constitutional Court are handed over via mail or directly to the Constitutional Court and must be signed. At the request of the Constitutional Court, a response may be given here to the proposal, the initiative and the solution to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality, i.e. the legality of the general act. The holder of the contested General Act shall be obliged to submit the contested General Act and the necessary documentation within the time limit laid down by the Constitutional Court, which may not be shorter than 15 days, for the purposes of proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Article 35. The Constitutional Court's draft law deals with prudential assumptions. So, in proceedings before the Constitutional Court, we are asked to see whether the Constitutional Court is competent to decide whether the proposal has been submitted by the authorising officer, whether the proposal or initiative is complete and understandable, whether the necessary contributions and the necessary notices and documents have been made. The Constitutional Court will reject the proposal, the initiative, the constitutional appeal or the application, or any other act which initiates the procedure in the following cases - when it finds that it is not competent, unless it has been lodged within a specified time limit and the applicant has not, within the time limit left, removed the shortcomings which prevent further action. There is a public debate before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court holds a public debate in the process of assessing constitutionality or legality, in cases of election disputes, then banning the work of the political party, trade union organisations, associations of citizens and religious communities. However, as it happens very often, there is an exception to any rule, so the Constitutional Court may decide not to hold a public debate, if it considers that the issue of what is problematic during the proceedings, which is the subject of an assessment of constitutionality and legality, is sufficiently clear and that, based on the evidence provided, it can also decide without a public debate being held. All participants in the proceedings are invited to the public hearing. The absence of individual participants in the public hearing does not prevent the Constitutional Court from holding a public hearing. The Constitutional Court may postpone or terminate a public hearing. The Constitutional Court shall also be chaired by the President of the Constitutional Court. What are the acts brought by the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court shall make decisions, make decisions and draw conclusions. The contents of these acts are: an introduction, a saying and an explanation. The Constitutional Court's decisions, apart from the constitutional appeal's decision, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as in "The Official Messenger", in which the Statute of the Autonomous Province was published, the second general act and the collective contract, i.e. in the manner in which the General Act on which the Constitutional Court decided was published. The procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of the general acts shall be initiated by a proposal, i.e. a solution by initiative. The proposal contains, first of all, the name of the act, the designation of the provision, the name and number of the official note in which it has been published, the reasons on which the proposal is based, as well as other information relevant to the assessment of constitutionality and legality. This is very interesting, that in the process of assessing constitutionality and legality, the Constitutional Court itself is not limited by the request of an authorised promoter. So, in the event that the authorising officer withdraws the proposal, the Constitutional Court shall have the authority to proceed with the proceedings, if it considers that the Constitution, or the law, has been violated. Furthermore, in the course of the proceedings, at the request of the holder of the contested General Act, the Constitutional Court may, prior to the decision on constitutionality, suspend the procedure and allow the applicant of the act to remove the irregularities or illegality identified within a certain period. The Constitutional Court may also suspend, pending a final decision, the execution of an individual act or action taken on the basis of a general act whose constitutionality or legality is assessed. When the Constitutional Court determines how the consequences resulting from the application of a general act which does not comply with the Constitution or the law, the Constitutional Court's decision has legal fact since the date of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What is certainly interesting in our legal system is the procedure under the constitutional appeal. Article 82. The proposal for a law is clearly stated that a constitutional appeal can be declared against an individual act or act of a state authority or organisation entrusted with public powers, which injure or deny human or minority rights or freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, if they are exhausted or other remedies are not provided for, or the law excludes the right to their judicial protection. It is very important for our legal system, for the efficiency of our judiciary and for the position of Article 2 82. The draft law on the Constitutional Court, which says that the constitutional appeal can be declared even if the legal means are not exhausted, in the event that the applicant has been violated the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. This legal syntagma is common in our legal system. The constitutional appeal may be made by any person who considers that a certain right has been violated by an individual act or action, as well as by national authorities and other bodies responsible for the monitoring and exercise of human and minority rights. What's the deadline for filing a constitutional appeal? The constitutional appeal may be made within 30 days of the date of delivery of the individual act, or the day of taking the action which injures or deprives human or minority rights and freedoms covered by the Constitution. Article 84. The draft law in paragraph 2 provides for the Institute of Vomiting in a previous situation. If, for justified reasons, a person misss the deadline for filing a constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court will allow vomiting and that person, within 15 days of the end of the reason that caused the failure, submits a proposal for recovery in the previous situation and, at the same time, submits a constitutional appeal with this proposal. After a period of three months from the day of the failure, you cannot ask for vomiting in the previous state. The constitutional appeal must contain the name and last name, the unique birth number, the individual act, and the official number of the individual act whose constitutionality, or legality is contested; then, with the constitutional appeal, a copy of the contested individual act shall be submitted. The constitutional appeal shall not, as a rule, prevent the application of an individual act or action against which it has been declared. However, on a proposal from the applicant of the constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court may postpone the execution of an individual act or action, if the execution would cause irreparable damage and the delay would not be contrary to the public interest, nor would the delay damage the third party. The Constitutional Court will suspend the proceedings, pursuant to Article 88. The draft law, if the constitutional appeal has been withdrawn, should other procedural assumptions be suspended for the conduct of the proceedings, if the authority which has adopted the individual act cancels, abolishes or amends such an act. By decision, the constitutional appeal shall be adopted or rejected as unfounded. In the event that the Constitutional Court adopts a constitutional appeal, the decision of the Constitutional Court to which the constitutional appeal is respected shall have a legal fact as from the date of delivery of the participants in the proceedings. This proposal is very good, normised by Article 90, which says - on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Article 89(3) of this Act, the applicant of the constitutional appeal submits a claim to the Commission for compensation for damages, in order to reach an agreement on compensation and the amount of compensation. If the claim for compensation for damages is not adopted or it is not decided by the Commission for damages within 30 days of the date of application, the applicant of the constitutional appeal may refer the action to the general court of jurisdiction in the part or whole of the claim. The transitional and final provisions provide for, as well as in Article 90(3), the act of the Minister responsible for Justice to determine the composition of the Commission referred to in Article 1 of this Article and to regulate its work closer. The deadline is set by Article 116. Proposal for a Constitutional Court Act. DS MPs will vote for this bill and I urge all MPs to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10205	The word has a folk MP Vesna Pesic, and in turn it is Vlatko Ratković, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Petrović, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10206	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out certain problems in the adoption of a constitutional court law which, in my opinion, stem first and foremost from the fact that I am the Constitution restricting us from being satisfied with this bill of law. I would like to say that all the political parties involved in the adoption of the Constitution are responsible for this, so now that we listen to how much they complain that the Constitutional Court will be a party body, they are responsible for this because such a constitution has made it possible for the Constitutional Court to really operate according to the party's criteria. So, first of all, I would point out that citizens, what is most interesting to them, that they very often, given the state of our judiciary, cannot meet the basic rules of justice and justice, so in large numbers, as you know, address the international court of justice in Strasbourg. We have seen that many of our citizens have received these processes, which really shows the state of our judiciary, especially when it comes to human rights violations. When it comes to this proposal, I would also point out that it is certainly the main newspaper and what is good in this proposal, which is that there is a constitutional complaint that protects the human rights of citizens. Now I'm going to show you how, when this is discussed, we have no guaranteed independence of this court, nor have we guaranteed its efficiency. Because, as we have seen, there have been a lot of such public cases lately, when it comes to efficiency, and the minister knows that there are a lot of out-of-date processes, so let's see how it will be discussed in this constitutional court and when it comes to its effectiveness. My main thesis is that the fundamental limitations of this law, which cannot be changed either by amendments or by this debate, come first from how the Constitution itself has decreed that the Constitutional Court will function. It's about efficiency. The constitution stipulates that decisions in disputes before the Constitutional Court are made by a majority of the votes of all judges, that is Article 175(1). The Constitution. This means that the court will not be able to work in the council, but that all decisions will have to be made in the tide. Since constitutional complaints are likely to be thousands, the question arises whether the Constitutional Court will be able to resolve them quickly and efficiently and to answer all such questions in its jurisdiction. So there is a danger that the constitutional appeal will be a legal remedy only on paper. This problem is another consequence of what I said at the very beginning, a complete lack of public debate on Serbia's new constitution, and it could have been removed that MPs from the SRS, DSS, allowed the professional public to discuss the constitution in general. The other thing, when it comes to an independent judiciary, I think there's been enough words so far, but it's one complicated procedure for the Constitutional Court's election. As you know, candidates of the Assembly are appointed by the president, and candidates are elected by the president of the Assembly, and the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court is appointed by five judges. If there was an opportunity to discuss the Constitution, it would not have been mentioned in the Constitution Supreme Cassation Court, which still does not exist, but could have been said - the Supreme Court in the Republic, and we will not have the Constitutional Court established after this, you will answer me, but I say it will not be, because we do not have the Supreme Cassation Court and I do not know who will and which authority will do it, means that we have these five judges, so we will have five and five, and these five will not be and will not be established in full capacity by the Constitutional Court. So I point out the argument that someone was reading the Constitution, the expert public, that these mistakes would not come. In addition, enough has been said here to prove that the independence of this court is indeed at large, because we have seen that in the Assembly itself we have formed a list based on party membership and we will see that the Constitutional Court will practically be a coalition agreement. On the one hand you'll have, I must say and address the DS, you've given it up – although it's a party way, we could have done it better, but it's not – that you give the candidates, because the president should give up his, so it'll be DS, and here you've left the DSS, and so you've met the coalition request that you have members of the Constitutional Court, so, the Constitutional Court of Justice is probably going to be from G 17 plus, and this other part is going to be DS. Indeed, this kind of court formation casts a mockery in advance, causing huge mistrust of citizens that this constitutional court will satisfy the basic functions, in particular to investigate the legality, to measure the lawfulness and constitutionality and constitutional complaints of citizens, the violation of human rights, if this is how the Constitutional Court is formed. This can be seen by resolution, and I especially ask Mr. Minister to answer these questions. Thus, constitutional provisions on the termination of the term of office, i.e. the discharge of the Judges of the Constitutional Court, show that they are treated in a way as delegates of the body that proposed them, since only these authorities are authorised to require the termination of their duties, i.e. discharge. Article 174(3) The Constitution and Articles 14 and 15. It's a bill of law. So, you can tell by resolution that they're the delegates of these organs you named them. Therefore, the party basis, the party states and the party court, and the politicisation of this body, which should restore citizens' trust in the judiciary, will indeed not be satisfied. Finally, I would point out that when it comes to the criteria for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court, the choice is required that they are prominent lawyers, with at least 40 years of life and 15 years of experience in the legal profession, but the Constitution does not require that they have any moral quality. By contrast, the Law on Judges, Article 14, provides for one of the conditions for choice, dignity for judicial office. The Constitutional Court judge is not asked for any dignity to be a judge, but I have stated that it is a matter, that the Constitution itself has turned our state into a party state, and I have shown what it looks like according to the Constitution, and that the law itself could not even remove one concept of our state as a party state, and then all the other institutions that the Assembly needs to establish. In the end, I would say that not only is there not a moral criterion, but I do not think it is pointed out, in practice, that criteria will be put in place, which are exceptional, significant lawyers who can participate, but I do not think it is highlighted, when it comes to the judges of the Constitutional Court, that certain expertise is sought. Mr. Minister, you know how educated our judges are, how many judges who, for example, are now state secretaries at the Ministry of Education or anywhere they know about human rights, which is why decisions go to international court, as far as they know international law. It's not even a request for any specialization, to know that it's really about people who understand constitutional matter. When the expert side is looked at, and these are the people who are prominent lawyers, there are no criteria, and there is no moral court, nor a moral criterion, so when we look at it we will really have in the right sense a politicized court, as well as all the institutions of such cardinal importance, which we have built here in the Assembly. In the end, let me just ask you a question, Mr. Minister. You, in your explanation for the bill of this law, have given a very ghastly explanation. Why, how, after something you said yesterday, but in the written explanation itself, it was given very briefly, and besides, you stated that no financial resources were needed. I'm specifically looking for an answer here. If we're going to have this many constitutional complaints, if this is how the Constitutional Court is going to form, doesn't it matter now whether it's political, that's what I've already said, but how can the Constitutional Court operate without any additional financial resources?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10207	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Justice, in the architecture of any state, the structure of the government of each state and of every society, the Constitution is a base, foundation or foundation, and the Constitutional Court is certainly, by a trail of logic, one roof institutional structure. We have a constitution that regulates the state, regulates the government, regulates the economic and financial arrangements, regulates fundamental rights and freedoms, but if we don't have a Constitutional Court, there's no one to protect the basic principles of the Constitution and all those solutions that are given in the Constitution. That is why this law, which lies before us as the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, is of paramount importance, because that is why we are surrounding the institutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, by electing judges of the Constitutional Court, and the assumption of this is the adoption of the Constitutional Court law. I must commend this text, first of all, from one legal-technical point of view, which is less important, though, which is that this document that we have before us represents, in some sense, the codification of standards that have so far been broken down into several laws. So here we have both material-legal norms, and procedural-legal norms and norms on the legal action of the Constitutional Court decisions, and that is what has been regulated so far in several legal documents. The constitutional court's basic function, and I don't think it's from the MPs so far, is a protection function. Article 166 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the Constitutional Court protects constitutionality and legality, especially human and minority rights and freedoms. So without this one important instrument, one institution that protects constitutionality and legality, we can't even talk about full protection and the achievement of human rights and freedoms. The details, i.e. the solutions, whether in the material and legal or procedural areas, will be discussed in more detail when the amendments are discussed. What I would like to stress at this point is individual solutions from this law, which are primarily on the line of monitoring of Chapter 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the position and jurisdiction, in the first place, of the Constitutional Court, but which is no less important, these solutions are also on the line of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the normative and practical effects of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That is why I will briefly absorb one piece, one segment of this bill, and it concerns constitutional appeal, and I believe that it is one of the most important, primarily new institutes or sub-institutionals in this legal text and our legal system, in the way it is proposed here in this law, and I am free to say that it is also a civilizational fluid, because in the first place the instrument of constitutional appeal will allow our citizens in an effective way to exercise human rights, minority rights, human rights and freedoms, if they are injured by state authorities. So, a reasonable trial is a legal standard that exists in the legal systems of European states for many years and has been incorporated into our Constitution, and here it is elaborated in detail through this draft law on the Constitutional Court. The trial within a reasonable period is extremely important, especially for those who are in legal practice, the legal theory engaged directly, we know that human rights and freedoms, which are achieved before regular courts, have just been inhibited needlessly and unwarrantedly by the long duration of court proceedings. Therefore, the trial within a reasonable period is one way, one of the instruments, which is incorporated into this law, to protect it. This, again, is on the line, at one course of the European Convention on Human Rights and other documents that this Parliament has ratified. The second thing I wanted to do in this part of the exposure is to enable and elaborate fully on this definition of the Constitutional Court, or the position of the Constitutional Court in Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is its independence and independence. The Constitutional Court is the institution of sui generis, it is in one broad context part of the judicial system, but the Constitutional Court is also the institution sui generis, given the authority's competence, the position of the authority in the system of division of power. If we analyse the constitutional principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial terms, we will see that the Constitutional Court, not only through the provisions of the Constitution, but also through the provisions of this law that are being discussed, plays a specific role both in relation to the National Assembly, and in relation to the President of the Republic, and in relation to the Government as an executive authority, and in relation to the units of local self-government and autonomous province. That is why it is of paramount importance, and this is precisely what all MPs, or all MPs, have shown through one intensive amendment, I think that about 100 amendments have been submitted by the parliamentary groups belonging to the opposition group, and as chairman of the Legislative Committee, and as a member of the Committee on Justice, I pay particular attention, especially as a member of the Committee on Justice, to all those solutions that have been proposed and which legally and technically or legally improve this text of the law. The Democratic Party will certainly vote in favour of this text as proposed. We'll see to what extent we'll accept certain amendments. Of course, all amendments are welcome, we will analyze them and we will participate in the debate on amendments. In the end, I just want to say that the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act creates a legal-technical assumption for the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and, on the other hand, by effectiveing this law, means when it becomes part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to achieve their human rights and freedoms much, much more effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10209	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10210	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it is good for the public of Serbia to point out that the state without the Constitutional Court is the flow of DOS democracy. For two years we have been without the Constitutional Court in that former assembly majority meeting of DOS and now here are eight months since this parliament has been operational we have no Constitutional Court. It is very interesting to listen to yesterday's minister, and today MPs of the ruling coalition who don't know who they're complaining about why we didn't have this bill and the Constitutional Court. Gentlemen, in your hands were both a knife and a cake, and you have no right to speak -- here comes the time, we will finally have a Constitutional Court, etc. Every day since this parliament was established, I have been mostly speaking, and every time I debated it on the first day of every morning, I started saying that Serbia is in an unconstitutional state, among other things, because we do not have a Constitutional Court and that we have not fulfilled all obligations under the Constitution and constitutional law. That's why I was quite surprised when you, Mr. Petrovic, held a theoretical debate yesterday on the necessity of the Constitutional Court in Serbia and in every country, of course, even in Serbia, you said. You said -- here, now we'll have the Constitutional Court law, we'll have the judges, Serbia will finally get the Constitutional Court. We wait for it, we insist on it, and again what you have suggested, and this law and proposals that are next points of the agenda you've done sloppyly, as if you haven't had the eight months you've worked on this. "After a year of dysfunction, we are back in line with the states that have a rounded legal system." I quoted you, Mr. Minister. What did you say to us? We expected you to tell us about the bill's proposal, and that we don't have a Constitutional Court for a year and that we're standing in some order, as you said, the state that has a round legal system, we unfortunately don't have a round legal system, and unfortunately we don't have a legal state, and you know it well. When we establish the Constitutional Court, we will have a two-thirds Constitutional Court, which, truthfully, can exist under the Constitution, but I guess it can't go indefinitely. We have no indication of the formation of the Supreme Cassation Court, which will be obliged to propose five more judges to complete the Constitutional Court. So there's nothing to brag about. You've done something, we've tried to make it a little better with amendments. I'll talk about it when I start to list this bill a little bit. It will be, if you adopt our amendments, a law that is applicable, a law that can survive in our legal system. Without our amendments, that won't be possible either. This morning you said you haven't been able to look at all the amendments yet, at least not seriously examine them. You'll see, we've drawn your attention that you have several members of the Constitutional Law that are not in line with the Constitution. It just can't happen and you have to make it right. You have in quite a number of members of the law a completely messy legal-technically formulated text. Obviously, it's a translation, a confused order of words. I expect that, at least in that part, you will accept our amendments so that it will be at least as easily readable and in accordance with our legal system. You also said that over 1,000 unsolved cases await this Constitutional Court. I understand that one of the MPs of the opposition says that, because we also know that there are so many cases awaiting the Constitutional Court's decision, but you better not brag about that fact, because here I am now asking you what you did then if you allowed yourself to do so, you as Minister and your Government. Indeed, in this area, in the area of justice where you're headed, we didn't have much of a bill so that you could say now, you know, we had this law, uh, this one, so you could explain to me why we didn't have a draft law on the Constitutional Court. It is good that you remember now, better ever than never, all this is not controversial, but just don't say that the citizens of Serbia, who follow the work of this Parliament, get the impression that someone is guilty, I don't know who, but you are not, why we don't have a Constitutional Court and this law whose proposal we're discussing today. It is your responsibility, the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you must make it clear and loud. I said we filed about 28-29 amendments to a law that has a total of 118 members. I quote this primarily because of the public, and I think you'll get it right, too, to see that we did it really in a serious, well-intentioned way. So the text you suggested is the text of a law that, with certain amendments, can be acceptable. It's not about a proposal that the apriors would say - this is no good. No, this is a text that can be customized, which can be arranged, which can be aligned with the Constitution where it is not harmonised; that some members, some of the parts that you have left out, say in Article 13, where you speak when functions stop -- choice, appointment and termination of the office of Judges of the Constitutional Court -- I guess you forgot it, you left it out, I don't know how you didn't mention what happens if a judge dies. That must be foreseen. Unfortunately, death is part of life, and it happens and it has to be regulated. For if we choose 10 judges now, it is two-thirds, and God forbid, if any of them dies, we do not have a Constitutional Court until now. I don't want to talk about it, I don't want anyone to see it happen during their term, but it's something that needs to be laid down in law. The amendment provided for how this can be resolved. I'm not going to read the amendments now, we're going to talk about it when we talk about the law in particular, but only in principle what are the objections. In Article 14, you speak - if the National Assembly does not decide on the termination of the office of the judge who has met the conditions for retirement, that judge's duty shall cease on the day of the fulfilment of the conditions. You have to admit that the end is missing, which is that it has to be determined by a solution. Whose solution? It's the President's decision. How do we know someone's out of office? There must be some legal act that will inform us about it. Article 15 states that Article 2 does not comply with Article 174. The Constitution. This is where you predicted - the fulfilment of the conditions for the court's decision of the Constitutional Court is determined by the Constitutional Court. That's not true. The Constitution makes it clear - the Constitutional Court is initiating. So inaccuracy, but necessary to correct if we want to have a good text of the law. In Article 16, you have positions 2, 3 and 4 which need to be deleted because they are contrary to Article 173. The Constitution. I don't have time to talk about every detail right now, but that's why there's another part of the debate. Mr. Micunovic, our parliamentary group has an hour and a half on your rules of procedure the ability to speak, and believe me, in an hour and a half I may be able to comment on each member. We have to do this a little faster. We also have an objection to Article 17, where it says that the loss of the working capacity of the Constitutional Court judge is determined on the basis of expert findings and opinions - you said - authorized medical institutions, we think it should stand - in a scale with rules on PIO. The formulation is more serious, because what it means is an authorized health care facility. Can an individual doctor give such confidence or some kind of medical commission? If we say it's in accordance with the Law on PIO, it's regulated exactly how it's done, which is an institution, which is a commission, and then it's simpler, easier, and more cellular. The first position should also be deleted in Article 19, which is in line with the previous amendment, i.e. the continuation of the previous amendment. In article 21, you left out, Col. Krasic talked about this, here's attitude 2 - right to pay from Article 1 of this article can be extremely extended for another six months, if, in that time, the judge, who has ceased his post, is entitled to an age pension. And here's something you left out. It must stand, as with all officials in the state of Serbia, that this deadline may be shorter, as that person can, in the meantime, gain pension rights or be hired elsewhere and then reduce that six-month period. That can't be a guess, because if we don't write it in the law, he can say, "I want a salary where I got a job, and I have the constitutional law for six months and the one I don't make anymore." It just needs to be accurate. The legal technical provision is also what we have proposed for you as a member of the 29th and several subsequent members, where you have put everyone whose initiative has initiated the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality, in the following text, is the initiator. First, you can't say "everyone," but you can say "legal and physical person," it's in the spirit of our language and in the spirit of our legal system. Sounds better. And "initiator" is more jargonic and we think it should be nice to stand "initiator." It's no problem to write one more word. In a few places we have this kind of remark and we've intervened everywhere. If, possibly, it is even missed somewhere, if you would accept these amendments, then the legal and technical editorial of the Legislative Committee would arrange this whole text. That, of course, you know. ''The Constitutional Court may postpone or terminate the hearing for the purpose of obtaining the necessary information, notices and opinions, as well as in other justified cases. '"This is a member of the 40th, and it doesn't say what time it is for a public hearing. He spoke to his colleague Krasic as we learned, because we have often initiated in the SRS before the Constitutional Court the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of various acts, illegal and unconstitutional, which have been carried out since 2000, and we have often found out by some people who have called us and told us - hey, do you know, tomorrow is your initiative on the agenda and public debate. Right, Mr. Krasic, we received calls five days after a public hearing was held, with notice that it was scheduled for the other day. So there must be a deadline. We suggested that it be eight days. It could be ten, seven, fifteen, three, but it's important that there's a deadline, that it binds someone. We also have objections to Article 46, which speaks of suspending the execution of an individual act. We put two places in Article 46, paragraph 3, to refer to a specific individual act because we have experience with, reminding and fellow Krasic reminded of the law, it seems to me that he was called - a law on the assistance of the indictees in The Hague, when the Constitutional Court decided to put aside all acts that were passed under this law that had never entered into force and that was done within 24 hours. So this would be a good thing to fix. The decisions of the Constitutional Court - you say in Article 49 - except for a decision by constitutional appeal, are published in the Official Messenger, etc. We don't see why decisions would be left out by constitutional appeal. Why such decisions cannot and should not be made public in the Official Messenger. If the official messenger publishes a lost driver's license, a lost ID card, a lost work book, I don't see why the official messenger would issue a decision on the constitutional appeal. Believe me, it's very important, because the Constitutional Court's decision to make a constitutional complaint in some way creates legal practice. There's no reason not to know that in the widest public. Not just through the media and leaving a comment on a journalist who, by the way, is not a lawyer. Therefore, it shall be published in the Official Messenger as all acts shall be published. We also have objections to Articles 54, 55. I may have skipped some, but I just don't have enough time. Article 54, it is also about that legal-technical arrangement, and Article 55 may look like a legal-technical arrangement, but we think it is more legally correct to say, that within a certain time, it removes the observed ones – you said inconsistencies and illegalities – we think that there should be disagreements with the Constitution and the law. It's simply something that's more appropriate to our legal system. In Article 56, you speak, the Constitutional Court may, in the course of the procedure, until the final decision is reached, suspend the execution, again we have told you a concrete individual act or action taken on the basis of a general act, whose constitutionality and legality are assessed, we again think that it should, which is adopted in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It is similar to that of Article 57. Article 63, if a general or specific jurisdiction is questioned in the proceedings before a court of law or another general act with the Constitution, the general rules of international law, approved international agreements or law, the court will step down and initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality. That's where the president of that court should stand, because the court is a state authority. We had an example yesterday, you saw what a problem was made with the proposal, because of the inaccuracies of the Constitutional Court candidate. The Constitutional Court is both an institution and a building. The assembly is both an institution and a building. There are also persons representing the Constitutional Court, and the National Assembly, and the Ministry, etc. We think it's necessary to present it precisely. The procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law before its declaration must stand here, because it is in accordance with Article 169. The Constitution. The procedure for the assessment of constitutionality before its declaration is urgent and shall be conducted in accordance with the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure. It's not the Rules of Procedure, it's the Constitution. It can't be a sublegal act, and it's so much lower than the Constitution, that it's in the law, and that the constitution, according to which all our acts must be aligned, can't be passed. We also have objections to Article 93, the decision-making procedure on the violation of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. The same applies to Article 114 for salaries, which are received for six months or shorter than that. So this is one part of the amendment that the MPs of the SRS have submitted and we're telling you, when you look at the amendments, and the bill of law and the Constitution, all of what I said very briefly, that without this, you won't have a good law. You're going to have a law that you're going to have to pass here very quickly through changes and additions. I suggest you, Minister, take our amendments seriously. As you can see, our intention was serious to help improve the text of the bill, so let's pass more of this law, to form that, even if it were, the Constitutional Court and to settle down, as you say, in order of countries that will at least begin to function legally. And of course still on your soul why it hasn't been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10211	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic. I'm sorry, Peter Petrovic isn't here. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and then the MP Nenad Constantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are here from some MPs of the ruling coalition heard the right go away to this bill. One of them claimed that this is the rounding of Serbia's legal-institutional system. It would be nice if it were true. Unfortunately, it is not true, because we are just about to pass a set of laws governing the organisation of the judiciary, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutor's Office. We're now trying to build a octrolic or a cranial constitutional court. We have a prosecutorial organisation of Serbia in V.D. condition. Therefore, we are far from rounding up Serbia's legal-institutional or institutional-legal system. We also heard that the Constitutional Court is an institution of sui generis. Apparently, the one who said it doesn't know what the Semantic means by the Sui Genis institution. We've heard of it, and it goes like that, that this is a top-notch codification venture. Now we're going to go back to the glossors, and the post-glossators, and we're going to listen to everything and everything, but of course this is one humble bill of law, with a brightness of shortcomings and failures, which may somehow be in some but not completely, measuring the amendments a little bit better, although I'm still a skeptic. I'll just mention a few things, 'cause I don't have a lot of time. For example, the following: issues of the relations between the state authorities and other bodies according to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Some effort has been made, but even through this bill no adequate and effective mechanism has been offered for the execution of court decisions. The proposer suggests that the Serbian government secures the application of decisions and that in the way the Constitutional Court proposes its solution. It's a new solution, but it doesn't promise much. Why? Because experience so far with similar solutions makes us have some doubts, to be skeptical and to have doubts. For example, we now have a similar situation with the execution of many decisions by independent authorities. Here is the situation of the Commissioner for Public Information, whose many decisions have not been made, because the Government did not want it, and in vain it writes and does not have any cognitive or imperative norm, which will be ordered by the Government to do so. We have a dangerous precedent here. Pay attention, Mr. Minister, to that. The Constitutional Court of the new constitution has received significant and exclusive powers to ban political parties, trade union organisations, religious communities and citizens' associations. I remind you that the head of the parliamentary group of one of the ruling coalition's parties has been making the illusions here publicly: only when the court is formed will you see; and he meant the LDP and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Indeed, if we have one of these general norms, that fear exists. The fear exists so much before this party court is the ruling coalition. Here some opposition parties used the right to be candidates, but they were alive and seen, it will be a party or party court of the ruling coalition, where it also does not take account, within that segment called - prominent lawyers - of that reference needed by the municipal court judge in Serbia's farthest place, which is conscience or security. That's why we have candidates on the list who were members of the last Central Committee of Serbia, Mr. Minister. I don't know if you know it, but one of the candidates on the list is a member of Serbia's last CKK. If you don't mind, it's dangerous. So, the party court, which will have the title - the Constitutional Court, will decide on the possibility of banning other parties. According to the people, “whoever says otherwise is slandering and lying.”
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10213	The word is made by the People's Messenger Esad Juddjevic, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10214	I would like to take the opportunity, very briefly, in accordance with Article 31. Rules of Procedure. Namely, what's this about? Here for days, electronic and printed media have been reporting a very painful situation in Novi Pazar, or events in the Islamic religious community. I would like, on the basis of this article, to call on the competent ministries, above all, to the government as a whole, to do everything within their constitutional and legal competences to enable the believers to identify what concept of the Islamic religious community they want to participate in. So, not to interfere with absolute autonomy guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of churches and religious communities, but to enable, through their jurisdiction, imams, religious officials and believers to belong to that organisational unit they consider adequate, in terms of the consumption of their religious rights. The second aspect, which is very important and is present in events over the past few weeks, is that one of the organisational units in the Islamic religious community is using violence to impose its concept and vision on the organisation of the Islamic community. I think it's high time that what I've received today from the field is that the government is required, based on the Constitution and the law, to intervene in this case, to reduce the tensions that occur around the mosque in Novi Pazar, a simple, simple approach, therefore, to enable believers, religious officials to choose freely in which way and in which objects they will fulfil their religious obligations, which is the fundamental constitutional right of every citizen. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10215	The word has a People's MP Nenad Constantinovic, and then a National MP, Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10216	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I share the satisfaction of the MPs who are before us, not because in this way we are fulfilling one of the obligations of the Assembly, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, to pass this law, but because in this way we are going to enable one of the most important institutions in this country, which is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has been blocked for over a year. That's what many have pointed out. There are reasons for this and there are ways that the blockade will be removed by the adoption of this law, and I will explain that. Why is the Constitutional Court important? The Constitutional Court settles certain legal disputes, but these are disputes which also have policy elements. We are all witnesses, every day we listen from this pay phone to give political interpretations of certain constitutional issues, such as whether elections should be called for mayor of Belgrade or not to be called, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Such legal issues with policy elements should be resolved by the Constitutional Court in a depolitical manner, so legal resolution and legal method. I hope we succeed in the next period to allow this institution to work. It is not true, of course, that the claims we heard during today, that the Constitutional Court will not be able to function when we elect 10 Judges of the Constitutional Court, because the Law implementing the Constitution says that if two-thirds of the judges are elected, that court is established and can begin to work. The basis for the existence of the Constitutional Court is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a special institution that the Constitution predicted and has nothing to do with judicial authority. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that the Constitutional Court was part of the judiciary and that we could apply it, in the end, the Law on Judges, the Law on Courts, and that the Justice Committee could deal with it. The Justice Committee cannot deal with the issue of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is not part of a judicial authority, but a separate body tasked with safeguarding and defending constitutionality and legality in this country. The Constitution itself restricted the proponent to law-making by giving basic solutions to the Constitution. I am pleased to see from this proposal the laws have also used comparative solutions from countries that have a rich constitutional tradition, such as Austria, Italy, Germany, and some solutions that exist in the constitutions and laws on constitutional courts from countries in the environment. I think it's a good thing that the new law is unique, in the sense that it is governed by the Constitutional Court and the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the fact of its decisions. Even though we've heard a grudge from that account, I think it's a much better solution than it was before, to define it by two different laws. The Constitutional Court Act has a number of good and new solutions. I'd like to mention one of them. First of all, this law guarantees the public, is provided and established by the public when the Constitutional Court works, decision-making and decision-making, so that every citizen in this country will be able to know what decision the Constitutional Court has made and in what procedure. Another important rule for our citizens, which has been established by this law, is the practical establishment of poverty law, which did not previously exist for proceedings before the Constitutional Court, which means that our citizens who do not have financial opportunities to conduct the procedure before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court may decide that all costs of the proceedings are compensated. Of course, as my colleague Maja Lausevic said, no fee is paid for submitting any kind of proposal before the constitutional court. In order to achieve the independence of the Constitutional Court and the independence of the judges, that is what I do not think many have understood, although they have spoken of this proposal, under one, the Constitution has made it possible, although a complicated way of choosing, but a way of choosing which guarantees much greater independence than it was before. Selecting this way, where the Serbian Parliament proposes 10 candidates, and the president of the state appoints five out of those 10 and the way the president proposes 10 candidates, and the Serbian Parliament appoints five candidates, definitely guarantees much more independence than we had before when the Legislative Committee or the Justice Committee of the Serbian Parliament did. Another way to achieve the independence of the Constitutional Court judges is that conditions and conditions for the resolution of judges of the Constitutional Court are determined by the Constitutional Court itself. Mr. Krasic, I must say that you are wrong and that I find that amendment not to be accepted, for the simple reason that if a National Assembly or a proposed judge decides and meets the conditions, then we cannot talk about the independence of judges. Therefore, the fulfilment of the conditions for the discharge of judges of the Constitutional Court determines itself by the Constitutional Court, independent of the National Assembly or the President of the Republic. The third way to try to establish independence is to make it impossible for judges of the Constitutional Court to be members of political parties. This was not previously foreseen when it came to the Constitutional Court judges, it was true for judges of regular courts, even the draft law strengthened this constitutional provision and said that the automatic reason for the resolution would be if a judge became a member of a political party. I mentioned the blockade in which the Constitutional Court has been in the past, it's been more than a year and it's been since the President of the Constitutional Court retired. Why was the Constitutional Court blocked? Because we didn't have an institution deputy president of the Constitutional Court and had no one to call a session of the Constitutional Court. The law now removes such a possibility, introduces the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court, and, in the event of prevention, the deputy will be able to convene sittings of the Constitutional Court. It's one of the good solutions in this law. As regards the procedures themselves, the procedures are both better and more precise, those that existed before under the law, such as the procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of general acts and the procedure for resolving the conflict of jurisdiction. There are a number of new procedures in this law, such as the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law before its declaration. Mrs. Radeta, the title in the Constitution is different from what it says, but Article 169 states that the laws are declared, and for that reason it is the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law before its declaration. There is one procedure that we all know was not allowed in the past by law, and this is the procedure when constitutional judgments are passed by the mandates of the Members of the People. We were all witnesses that in the last term the mandates of the MPs were taken against their will. They addressed both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Serbia and received both the one and the other court's response that they were not in charge of such issues. It is now doubtless introduced by the Constitution and this law that, for every matter of mandate and confirmation of the mandate, the Constitutional Court is in charge and the Constitutional Court is required to decide within 72 hours whether or not a right has been violated. What is certainly the biggest newspaper in this law and what we have heard from other colleagues, which is the introduction of a constitutional appeal institute. The Institute of Constitutional Appeals existed in the Charter of Serbia-Montenegro and no such procedure, as far as I know, could have been brought to an end before the Court of Serbia-Montenegro. I am sure that all these procedures that we have discussed, and these are the mandates of the MPs, have never received an epilogue before the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro. In our practice before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, this possibility has not existed practically since 1974 and neither has the 1990 Constitution. What does a constitutional complaint mean? It is important that citizens know and that they can use it properly. A constitutional appeal can be filed by any citizen of this country if he feels that he has been violated by his human or minority right guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the most important freedoms and the most important rights guaranteed by the Constitution are protected by the constitutional appeal institute. What is important, it should also be said that, instead of someone who is in violation of that right, the constitutional appeal can also be filed by other state bodies and organisations, if they are empowered by an individual whose right is at stake. It is important to understand that the constitutional appeal is an extraordinary remedy. Why do I say that? Because it does not belong to legal, regular and emergency medicines that can be used in court. On the other hand, the constitutional appeal cannot be filed unless all regular and legal resources are previously exhausted before regular courts. So, if citizens do not think they can immediately address the Constitutional Court, it is necessary that the protection of their rights be sought before regular courts, unless they succeed, they can file a constitutional appeal. There is one exception to this rule, and this is an exception when it comes to injury to a fair trial and when disputes of citizens last too long and do not resolve within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, anyone who considers that his dispute before the court is not settled within a reasonable period of time, and these are certainly disputes that last more than 10 years, can be addressed by the Constitutional Court through a constitutional appeal and that the Constitutional Court orders the ordinary court to take action. What is certainly very important is that if the constitutional appeal is found to have been valid and some violation of a human or minority right of citizens has been committed, that citizen will be able to compensate. An effective mechanism has been introduced, so that the damage compensation would not be achieved only in a lengthy litigation procedure, envisions the existence of a commission for compensation formed by the minister and with which the citizens will be able to negotiate and to exercise their right to compensation. Unless they are satisfied with such an agreement, they can re-apply in a litigation procedure to determine their right to compensation for damages. I absolutely believe that this law is a good legal framework for the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and I am also sure that the vast majority of MPs will vote for this law. I also call on the opposition MPs, since this is a very important law and law that allows institutions to be formed in this country, and the opposition has also talked about the need to form a Constitutional Court, to vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10217	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10218	Just for the public, because Mr. Constantinović made a lot of mistakes, and I'll only take one. Mr. Constantinovic, and until now no expense has been paid for the procedure before the Constitutional Court. Not because there was no court mark, but because it was regulated in regulations not to pay any tax. When you say the costs of the proceedings, then probably whoever initiated the procedure paid for some lawyer, but it didn't enter the subject matter of review before the Constitutional Court. You have said a number of inaccuracies, one of these is: The Legislative Committee under that previous Constitution was not asked when it was the choice and resolution of the Constitutional Court judges but was asked by the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. But, well, you're not obliged to know the former constitution, it doesn't matter. I have reported most of what you have stated, and as regards your request to remain in Article 15(2), that the conditions for the court's ruling be met by the Constitutional Court. Now with a few sentences I'm going to show you how wrong you are, how contrary this is to the existing Constitution of the RS. You have before you the Constitution, take Article 174, see what it says in paragraph 3: About the termination of the office of the judges, at the request of the authorising officers – and now to stop here, the Proposer may be the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and those of the judiciary – for the election, or the appointment of the Constitutional Court judges, the National Assembly. Well, then to Konstantinovic, an initiative to launch a resolution procedure can be filed by the Constitutional Court. As far as the Constitutional Court can go, that's an initiative. He can't go beyond that. The initiative means that the Constitutional Court can sit down, so that it can make a decision, that decision, the internal, conclusion and says - we Constitutional Court judges voted with so much and so much and we have come to the conclusion that the NN Judges of the Constitutional Court should be resolved, and in that sense we are submitting the initiative to the President of the Republic because the NN was elected from his list, so we ask you to initiate the procedure for resolution. And the end of the story. Absolutely the end of the story. The decision and choice of judges do not belong to the so-called so-called. the adhesion jurisdiction of the judge, the court. It ends only in real jurisdiction. This means, by the fact that someone has been elected judge, he acquires the original right to discuss, participate in the decision-making, etc. So the judges of the Constitutional Court are not the Council of the National Bank of Serbia and that is the wrong provision in that law. They cannot determine the previous something that is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the authorised promoter. If the President of the Republic is authorised to initiate the discharge procedure, he does so on his own, and whether the conditions are met are determined by the National Assembly during the debate, and particularly by vote. It is a similar situation when the original National Assembly wants to initiate proceedings for the resolution of a Constitutional Court judge who was elected from that list that we are voting on here. So that's about theory solved and there's no problem. Next, you said one great lie. Under the previous constitution, the Constitutional Court was not authorized to consider the matter of the mandate of MPs of the National Assembly. (President: Time.) Here, I'm done. So those wanderings that used to be they were right, so some addressed the federal constitutional court for protection, where there was a constitutional appeal institute. But again, the question is whether the decision to terminate the term of office is the individual decision that can be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10219	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. You have injured Konstantinovic's dignity and is now appearing under the Rules of Procedure, under Article 104. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10220	I haven't been harmed with dignity, but apparently Mr. Krasic didn't understand me very well. You read Article 174. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it is true in that article, in the last position, says in the last sentence -- an initiative to initiate the procedure for resolution can be filed by the Constitutional Court. That's not controversial. So it's not a question of who can start the initiative, it's not a question of who's making the resolution decision, and it's foreseen by the Constitution and the law. What is in this law is that when someone initiates a resolution initiative, the fulfilment of the conditions for resolution is determined by the Constitutional Court. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say that the fulfillment of the conditions for resolution is determined by someone else. This does not mean that the Constitutional Court makes a decision. The National Assembly makes the decision. But if you feel that someone should be resolved because he has become, I don't know, a member of a political party or has permanently lost his workforce, the fulfillment of that condition will be determined by the Constitutional Court and that is the measure entered into in this law in order to enable the independence of judges, not to put the motionor, the National Assembly, initiating the initiative and, as a promoter, once again, the National Assembly, determines that the conditions and resolutions of the Constitutional Court judge have been met. Here we have one interstep, where the fulfillment of the terms determines the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10221	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic has the word. Please, let's finish the controversy. Please, Mr. Millyvoy, don't throw it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10222	I'll give you this for free as advice. I don't charge for this, so you know. There is a big difference between the initiative and the motion for resolution. The initiative is something that's being informed of someone who's owned to run something. The initiative has nothing to do with it. Among other things, you can, as a citizen, submit an initiative to the Constitutional Court and draw attention to this initiative that something is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but the procedure will not be initiated, but the procedure can be initiated if the Constitutional Court decides to accept this initiative, then adopt, see the law, a solution that is in motion, and then the procedure goes on official duty. So the initiative is something that's not a legal act. The initiative is something to be notified of, and the motion for resolution is an official legal act that initiates a procedure and does not give up the procedure, there is absolutely no abandonment of the procedure. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court cannot determine whether conditions are met for the resolution of a member of the Constitutional Court. He's not authorized by the Constitution. Whether conditions are met that one of the judges of the Constitutional Court is resolved by a non-binding one who initiates proceedings before the National Assembly, and is always determined by the National Assembly. It's the end of the story. Why do you insist on this, and yet you put it into the story that this way of choosing by the Constitutional Court is a guarantee of independence, expertise, independence, etc. You're speaking some concepts that don't apply to the Constitutional Court at all. The Constitutional Court is a state body. In some countries constitutional and judicial protection is provided not by a body called the Constitutional Court but by a Supreme Court or by the highest regular court in a country. Don't play smart, try to be smart, when you're weak. You deliberately put in here to block the resolution procedures if someone set it off, in the same way because it gave results to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That's why we've submitted the amendment, because we know what he's hiding. Now you will convince me that when you adopt that list of 10, Tadic will choose five judges who have nothing to do with DS; come on, tell me a little about it. As you're going to let me know or convince us that out of the 10 that he suggested, this is where all the Socialists will be chosen -- tie the cat to the tail of that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10223	According to Article 101, the replica has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinovic and I ask you to complete the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10224	Mr. Krasic, we're obviously different in one thing, which is that the DS believes that the Constitutional Court should be an independent state body and it's independent of politics, and you don't think that. The way for the Constitutional Court judges to be independent, that the political authority cannot determine whether or not the conditions are met are met. The decision will be made by the National Assembly in the end, and there will be nothing contrary to the Constitution or contrary to the law. You're saying-- who gives the Constitutional Court the right? The law gives the Constitutional Court the right to determine the fulfilment of the terms and conditions, and it states in Article 15(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10225	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic has the word. There's no replica on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10226	No law in this country can give greater rights and obligations to the Constitutional Court than those prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As neither the National Assembly nor the President of the Republic nor the Government can grab more than what is prescribed by the Constitution. There is no norm in the constitution that gives the Constitutional Court the right to act as a French radio-television. You're not gonna make it to the NBS concept. Tell me, please, why didn't such a provision exist in the current Constitutional Court Act? Why didn't she exist? Are you saying he wasn't independent? We didn't even have one, so we don't have one now. You are now boasting that when the law is passed, we will receive it; and who is responsible for not having it? The Martians? This article in Section 2 will not pass you by, be sure of that. He is deeply contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely opposite, I must tell you. And you have to understand one more thing, the question is whether those criminal provisions are good in this law given because there are several criminal provisions for which you have prescribed that they are violations. We didn't want to intervene here, but all those injuries you've listed in the criminal provisions are deeply intruding into contempt of the court. Later on, tomorrow or the day after the topic, I will open up to you the subject of how the Constitutional Court decisions are executed and why our Constitutional Court does not have that authority, and why he has this authority, in order to enforce its decisions, draws from other authorities. But these are some other topics. Don't be persistent where you don't know, don't be persistent, because you're gonna make a mistake. Say, we want to be like the NBS, I'll understand you, but don't, please, convince me of what you don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10227	Mr. Konstantinovic, I thank you for the constructiveity that you will not go further for the replicas. The word has a folk MP, Miletic Mihajlovic, and then a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10228	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS considers this to be an important issue and that the Constitutional Court should finally be elected. It is certainly necessary to pass a law that regulates everything that is related to the Constitutional Court. And of course, in that part, we don't challenge that need at all and all of the arguments that you from the ruling majority are making here. However, the fact stands, and you must be criticised that Serbia has not had a Constitutional Court for more than a year, at least in this part since the so-called democratic changes were made. It's actually talking about a total irresponsibility, and I'd say, he doesn't have a ruling elite, because it's hard to imagine a serious state in a world that has a constitutional court in its order without choosing it, and it doesn't work. I don't think it's the only example of irresponsibility, one negligence in that is the implementation of the system and the authorities, because the absence of institutions is something that's been a normal phenomenon and can be said everyday life since they came so-called. democratic changes since 2000. Of course, I'm not celebrating the order that was before 2000, and we're ready to discuss that there may have been certain gaps and it's not disputed. After all, in 2000, we left power, probably, partly because of some failures, but it does not give the right for such failures and such a format to happen now. We had this picture and opportunity at the beginning of this year, or after the parliamentary elections, that three months we were under the executive authority of so-called. the technical government, which wasn't the one for this, and for the one in charge and we were in one vacuum, in a political crisis. However, all that was under suspicion of constitutionality in the past, there was yours, I must say yours, once was ours, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, former President of the Constitutional Court, who appeared at the public service, and the public service exists so that the public of Serbia would know everything. It's a nice password, but it sounds a lot, and it doesn't mean anything. So, Slobodan Vučetić was the one who interpreted the Constitution. So you probably didn't think there was any gap in what is legal order, which is an assessment of constitutionality and legality, because he kept explaining it on television, and what is constitutional, what is not, or did it in "Politice" or in some other votes on the first page. Yesterday, we received a proposal from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which should finally be a proposal from the National Assembly, referred to the President of the Republic, from which he will elect five judges of the Constitutional Court. It was on paper format A5, without any other data. Finally, after yesterday's intervention and bile discussion, we received biographies of these judges, or candidates. It is almost inconceivable and inconceivable that one technology and way of implementing the government, including what is the way the National Assembly works, allows us to get a list of candidates, and we do not know who these people are, not to see their work biography, their effect, was finally not seen from that list whether they meet some of the basic conditions given in the Constitution, which is 40 years of life at least a certain number of years of work on relevant jobs, and to be the subject of conversations. Today, the leadership of a departmental community is not chosen in one school, not to exaggerate, there may be some procedure there, but one hunting association does not choose its board of directors or any other organisation dealing with a hobby does not choose without representing candidates, which shows who did what and what effect it has, and only then can it be voted on by those candidates. In fact, this process speaks of underestimating the National Assembly and that we cannot be content with the height, manner, and style of work of the ruling elite. With this final choice, when we actually propose to the President of the Republic, so when we choose from the President's list, we get in fact one piece of the Constitutional Court, or two-thirds of that court, which will not be able to solve any issues under the Constitution, because it has the possibility, as we know, to initiate certain procedures for the assessment of constitutionality for certain acts when it assesses it. It's only possible if you achieve some consensus, and that's a theory only on paper. Therefore, we have asked as an opposition the permanent choice of the Constitutional Court to function and that part of the judicial authority, but it is not final. Article 15 says that a judge's resolution can be if he is a member of a political party. So, I suppose, and it seems to me by some knowledge, and this is known to other MPs, that this much delay in the Constitutional Court's election is actually because of the difficulties in the treaty who will be candidates from your parties of the ruling coalition. Of course, there were some opposition parties who proposed their candidates, but that only serves as a decor. Nor will the President of the Republic on the list of 10 candidates that this assembly has instructed him to elect these people proposed by the opposition, nor will this National Assembly choose I don't know anyone proposed by this President of the Republic, although I don't believe he suggested anything that isn't from your ranks. Thus, this story that the Constitutional Court is independent is really so funny and very resounding in one unacceptable way, which is not accepted at all. Therefore, I would say that there is none of that golden rule of three, in which we have three levels of power independent, which is the legislative authority as an independent authority, on the other hand the executive authority and on the third judicial authority. The pyramid of the entire government in Serbia is the executive power and it is conducting also through the judiciary, and it is also trying to degrade this National Assembly very often and to conduct it. Besides, the actions about what happened yesterday and how you suggested it really shows. Of course, this criticism does not belittle or diminish the importance of the question we are talking about. As an opposition and as an SPS, we are obliged to point out such failures and we want to work and choose what we need today in Serbia, with respect and with respect for the right principles. If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, I would like to take the opportunity, which is beyond this topic, to congratulate, in my name and on behalf of the SPS today, the day of educational workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10229	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, according to the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was declared today exactly one year ago, the Constitutional Court was defined as an independent and independent state body, which protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. Since October 10th last year, the Constitutional Court's work was paralysed, as the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, gained the condition of retirement. He had no one to replace him, because according to the present, or still in force, Constitutional Court Act, there is no possibility that someone would schedule a session of the Constitutional Court instead of the President of the Constitutional Court. This is, among other things, one of the shortcomings of the present, still in force, the Constitutional Court Act and, therefore, in this draft law, this provision has been amended, in that it provides for the existence of the Deputy President of the Court, which, of course, in the case of the absence of the President or his current absence, will be able to schedule the sitting of the Constitutional Court itself. The opinion of the Venice Commission and the Advisory Body of the Council of Europe for the Development and Promotion of Justice and Democracy was that Serbia had so far not had an independent and effective Constitutional Court, which resulted in the inability to deal with human rights and constitutionalities in the best way and most effective way. The adoption of a new law on the Constitutional Court is also necessary because of its compliance with the constitution. The constitution envisioned a number of new jurisdictions of the Constitutional Court, extending the list of disputes it is deciding on. I will remind you that the Constitutional Court has previously decided on the consent of domestic law with the general rules of international law, and now, in addition to this jurisdiction, it also decides on the consent of approved international agreements with the Constitution. To remind you, it is those international contracts previously signed and later adopted in parliament itself. Of course, the Constitutional Court is a member of 169. The constitution has received one brand-new jurisdiction, which is to assess the constitutionality of a law that has not yet entered into force. At the request of one-third of the MPs, the Constitutional Court is obliged to assess the constitutionality of the law that has been passed, which has not yet been declared by the President of the Republic. This introduces the so-called preventive control of the law. In addition to the current jurisdiction to decide in electoral disputes, the Constitutional Court is now in charge of deciding also on disputes arising from the very verification of the mandate of the MPs. It is also responsible, in addition to its authority to decide on a ban on the work of a political party or any other organisation, to decide on a ban on the work of a religious community. Undoubtedly, his most important newspaper refers to the introduction of a new institution – a constitutional appeal, under which every citizen, if he considers that by a certain act of the state authority or action his right to be guaranteed by the Constitution, is a human, minority law or freedom, he has the right to declare a constitutional appeal. In any case, it shall be declared when all legal means are exhausted. However, the constitutional appeal may also be declared if all legal means are not exhausted and the right to trial is violated within a reasonable period, which means that, unless the citizen is satisfied during a certain court procedure, if he considers it to be long, whether it is criminal or litigation proceedings, he may file a constitutional appeal for this reason. I believe that by introducing this institute, a constitutional appeal, it can only help the work of regular courts to boost their efficiency. But, simply, as someone who has worked in the judiciary for four years, I can't, and not to mention, I have to say, it's very rare that deadlines for ending the proceedings are rarely exceeded by the inadequacy of the judges themselves. I must remind you that the judge works in extremely bad conditions, that two or three judges share one courtroom and that it is impossible for them to judge each day. The judge has two days on trial in one week. This also reflects the pace of the hearing, i.e. the search, and the end resulting in the duration of the procedure in general. If the court, deciding on a constitutional appeal, finds that yet some right guaranteed by the Constitution is violated, the citizen is simply informed in such a situation that he can apply for compensation to a commission formed directly by the minister of justice and is obliged to make a decision within 30 days. So, the citizen here is allowed to come faster to the protection of his right, not to seek the protection of his right by pressing charges for damages to one of the competent municipal courts. This is also how the shortened procedure and in any case is something that citizens will use as a faster way to get to their right. I would also refer to the choice, namely the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. Under the not yet in force of the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court is scheduled to have 15 judges, and the Constitutional Court has counted nine judges before. It is important to note that the judges will be elected by five judges to elect the National Assembly, out of the ten appointed by the President of the Republic, five judges will appoint the President of the Republic, out of the ten proposals submitted by the National Assembly, and five judges will be appointed at the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, of the ten candidates who will be proposed at the joint session of the Supreme Council of the Court and of the State Council of Prosecutors. This way of elections removes one flaw that has existed so far, which is that judges have been elected exclusively by parliament. Now in the election process, we have the participation of three state authorities, and what is very important is that none of them will have a crucial importance for the choice and composition of the entire Constitutional Court. In the end, I must say that no objection has been made to this bill so far, both domestic and relevant international organisations dealing with this topic. I must also say that this bill is absolutely in line with European standards, i.e. European Union and Council of Europe standards. The Venice Commission's assessment is that the adoption of this bill will allow the establishment of an independent defence system in Serbia in line with European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10231	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the MP Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if the gentleman from the Democratic Party is being held up to some political tradition. If so, I would like to remind you of the words of former Democratic Party leader Milan Grol, who were addressed in 1945 at the then-Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. He says, why do you communists keep saying the same thing, say once what you have, and don't answer the word again. It's about the same methodology that you do. When you have nothing to say, then the European Union, human rights, European and world standards, etc. Members of the SRS have proved to you and will prove to you even when the debate is under the amendments that this draft law on the Constitutional Court is far from any quality legal standards. Let's get in line. First of all, Mr. Minister, you could have noticed that the MPs of the SRS when they discuss the bill's proposals take care of two things. On the one hand, on the material and legal quality of the bill, and on the other hand on the language quality. Here we are in Article 1. The bill of law we meet with a formulation that deviates from the ordinary legislative technique. "The regulation of the Constitutional Court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of the Constitutional Court decisions are governed by this law." Here, Mr. Minister, we need an inversion, so Article 1 should read about this - this law regulates the constitutional court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of the Constitutional Court's decision. If it seems to you that it's not very classy to say - this law regulates the arrangement, perhaps you could use the synonym, so to say - this law is governed by the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court procedure and the legal fact of the Constitutional Court's decision. Furthermore, in Article 4, you say that any person may request that he be given insight into the case files and allowed to copy the file, in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance. We do not believe that such a formulation is necessary and that an analogy from the litigation process should be applied, that anyone can request a copy of the file, or that it should be allowed to see the files, without any specific conditions prescribed by the Law on free access to information of public importance. Article 4(2) is problematic because it practically allows the Constitutional Court, on a very broad basis, to reject the request for insight into the case files and to allow the copy of the file, as it is said - insight into case files and the copy of the file will not be allowed if there are grounds for disfellowshipping the public, and in other cases in accordance with the law. I did not read further in the text of the Bill's proposal to regulate this issue, which means that the Constitutional Court, i.e. the Constitutional Court, can freely interpret whether or not it will allow for the examination of the case files. We think that such a solution is drastically questioning citizens' rights and, above all, participants in the constitutional court procedure. Furthermore, Article 5(2) — Official use of other languages and letters in the procedure before the Constitutional Court shall be carried out in accordance with the law governing the use of these languages and letters. Mr. Minister, there is no law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia governing the use of German, Spanish, Japanese or Chinese. There is a Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and the law stipulates that the Serbian language and Cyrillic letters are regularly used, and that other languages and letters can be used in accordance with that law. So it's called the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters; it doesn't say, gentlemen, I don't know why you're laughing. It says, a law that regulates the use of these languages and letters. The law is called the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and in official use is Serbian. Article 8, this is really one provision that deserves special attention. It was spoken of by Mr. Vladan Batic, and I don't think he'll be angry if I give someone my interpretation of this solution. "The questions of proceedings before the Constitutional Court which are not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the relevant procedural laws." Gentlemen of the Democratic Party's lawyers, you certainly know that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia there are a whole series of procedural laws. For example, there is a Law on Prosecution, there is a Law on Criminal Procedure, there is a Law on General Administrative Procedure, there is a Law on Infringements, and all of these are procedural laws, but the solutions under these laws are not the same, they are not the same procedural situations, and then the question arises which of these procedural laws will be the judges of the Constitutional Court to apply, i.e. to apply if some procedural questions are not regulated by the Constitutional Court law. This solution is extremely problematic, I think it's amateur and there is simply no lawyer from the ruling coalition who can defend this solution. "On matters of proceedings which are not governed by this law or by the provisions of procedural laws, the Constitutional Court will decide in any particular case." What does that mean? That means the Constitutional Court takes over the UN tribunal's outlines. There, the Hague tribunal itself sets out its own rules of procedure. You're doing about the same thing. So if the Constitutional Court Act is incomplete, and it is, if you haven't set out in a precise way which other procedural law will be applied, then nice judges of the Constitutional Court will take over the role of legislator and write down the rules of procedure themselves. That, Mr. Minister, doesn't exist in any democratic state. There is only one in The Hague, but the UN tribunal is not much of an example of reputation. Then again, one formulation, Article 9: "The Constitutional Court brings general and individual acts to the majority of the votes of all judges, except in the case of the prescribed law". Isn't it nicer to say, Mr. Minister, that the Constitutional Court decides most of the votes of all judges, except in the case of this law? The Constitutional Court shall also decide when it adopts general and when it adopts individual acts. Then Article 10 - The Constitutional Court is a state body; no state body has a legal personality. So, no state body can have any rights and obligations in terms of property, and you say - The Constitutional Court has a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court, which is closely prescribed by the organisation, the way and the public work and the procedure before the Constitutional Court. A very sloppy and illiterate structure, rather than saying - the organisation, way and the public of the Constitutional Court's work is closely prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Constitutional Court - and not as you say - the Constitutional Court has a Rules of Procedure. How can the Constitutional Court have anything? Article 13(2) (There are indeed a lot of weaknesses in this bill, so I apologize if I make up a little bit of time. ) ''If the National Assembly does not make a decision on the request laid down in Article 1, within three months of the date of submission of the request, the court of the Constitutional Court shall cease to be bound by the law at the expiry of that period. '"This -- by law enforcement -- there's no need to write, because it's already regulated by law. So now we're talking about the law. Why do you point out twice that it's a law enforcement issue? If it's in the law, it's understood that it's the law enforcement. Article 16 - The Constitutional Court judge cannot perform any other public or professional function, nor can a job, except for a professorship at the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia. The fact that it's a profession, it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't understand why you interpret the concept of a profession very closely, so you say in Article 16(4) - a professor at law school within the meaning of this law, it's considered to be a teaching course in the calling of a regular or extraordinary professor. Why couldn't a doctor be a Constitutional Court judge? I don't see any reason. To remind you, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Oliver Dulic has proposed to us as one of the candidates for the Constitutional Court of a gentleman who is neither a regular nor an extraordinary professor nor a doctor, but is an associate at the Faculty of Law in Kosovo Mitrovica, otherwise, a man, I will not enter his qualities, he is not a doctor, he is not an extraordinary, he is not a regular professor. Article 20 paragraph 3 - If the Constitutional Court judge, whose duties had ceased, was from the territory of the Autonomous Region, candidates for election, or appointment, they must be from the territory of the Autonomous Region. This, Mr. Minister, is nothing but an artificial solution that imposes territorial discrimination. It doesn't matter if the man's quality, whether he's right, whether he's impartial, but whether he's got to be from the AP territory, and in his other quality and predisposition, no one gets involved. Mr. Minister, I'm really giving you a well-intentioned suggestion to pay attention to the language side of this bill. Article 25. - The Constitutional Court has a vice president. How can the Constitutional Court have a vice president? The president may have his deputy, not the Constitutional Court, to have a deputy president. The Constitutional Court, Mr. Minister, has no legal subjectivity, nor can any other state body possess anything, and especially a living man. Article 26 of Article 2 - The Secretary shall manage the professional service of the Constitutional Court and shall be responsible for his work to the Constitutional Court. No, the Constitutional Court. He has to write to the President of the Constitutional Court. Article 26, paragraph 3 - The Constitutional Court secretary may have a deputy. Mr. Minister, we're talking about an imperative regulation, a regulation in the field of public law. There can't be a formulation - it can, it doesn't have to. Anyway, the secretary has a deputy or he's gone, and not to leave it on the secretary's discretion whether he has a deputy or not, so if he finds the right man from the DS, let's have a deputy; if he doesn't have one, he won't have a deputy. Article 29, relating to the participants in the procedure, to this extent is misspelled, to this extent is not known who is party to the procedure, who is another participant in the procedure, who is the initiator, who is the promoter, that simply because of lack of time I will not comment on this. We have submitted the relevant amendments, so in the debate on amendments, we will explain why our solution is better than proposed. Article 36 - The Constitutional Court will reject the proposal, initiative, constitutional appeal, application, or other act initiating the procedure. Then you list four cases when a proposal, initiative, constitutional appeal, or another act is rejected. Mr Minister, you must add another reason to this list of reasons, which is that the Constitutional Court will reject the proposal, the initiative, the constitutional appeal, the request, or another act, if it is not submitted by the authorised entity. It's a concept, it's a solution that applies in all procedural laws, and in a litigation procedure, both in criminal proceedings and in administrative proceedings. If a person submits an act and is not in charge of submitting the act, the Authority is not engaged in a measurement decision at all, but rejects the act, and therefore this solution should contain a proposal for a constitutional court law by analogy. Here's an example of language incorrection. Article 37 says - The Constitutional Court is holding a public debate - and then it goes stuck - in the process of assessing constitutionality or legality. This one's got to be erased. He says - The Constitutional Court may decide not to hold a public debate if he's already decided on the same thing, and they haven't given a new reason for a different decision on the matter. Mr. Minister, this is bad again. If the Constitutional Court has already decided on a matter, then the procedural principle that applies in all procedural laws is applied - not bis and I go, not twice about the same thing. Therefore, it must be written here, in Article 37, that the proposal, initiative or other act must be rejected, if the Constitutional Court has already decided on this act. And not as you say, he's being rejected if they haven't given new reasons. It doesn't matter if they give new reasons or not. The process principle is that you cannot decide twice on the same thing and there is the end, regardless of giving or not giving new reasons. You are now introducing some newspapers into procedural norms that have existed since Roman law. Article 42 - The Constitutional Court may, in order to clarify matters in the case, hold other sessions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, you see, the Constitutional Court is deciding on issues of its jurisdiction. Whatever question is to be asked, the Constitutional Court decides at the session. I'm asking you now, Mr. Minister, what's the second session if it's not a session to decide on issues in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. I don't understand this concept of first, second, third, fifth or any other session. Article 45 paragraph 1(7) - The Constitutional Court shall, by decision, decide on electoral disputes for which the law does not determine the jurisdiction of the courts. Yesterday I was trying to explain to Mr. Bosko Ristic that the Constitutional Court is also a court and that it belongs again to the judicial branch of power. Mr. Minister, Bosko Ristic may not understand, but I think you're a better lawyer. The theory of the three branches of government -- legislative, executive and judicial -- is that of Montescia. If the Constitutional Court doesn't belong to the judicial authority, then I ask you, what other branch of government does it belong to? The legislation doesn't belong, maybe it belongs to the government, you might want it to be so, but it doesn't essentially belong to the judicial authority. That is why it should stand here - the Constitutional Court decides by decision on electoral disputes for which the law does not determine the jurisdiction of other courts. Article 49 - Constitutional Court Decision, apart from the constitutional appeal decision, is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, a decision on a constitutional appeal must be made mandatory in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. No constitutional appeal can be filed just like that. It is a very delicate legal matter, that there is no other legal mechanism to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms. The Constitutional Court's decision has far-reaching significance, the character of a precedent and one decision that can model future court, or legislative practice. It is therefore very important to make decisions according to constitutional complaints and that they must be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Article 57 - The Constitutional Court will suspend the proceedings when the General Act is in conformity with the Constitution during the proceedings. Mr. Minister, this is where the next question is asked - who's going to assess whether the general act is in line with the Constitution? Only the Constitutional Court can do that. How does the Constitutional Court do that when you've prescribed an imperative standard for him to suspend proceedings? There, another state authority will be left with the freedom to assess whether it has agreed its general act with the Constitution or not. Article 58(2) – The provisions of the approved international contract for which the Constitutional Court has established that they do not comply with the Constitution cease to apply in the manner provided for in that international contract and the rules of international law adopted. The logical question is, and what if the confirmed international treaty does not contain rules at all on what happens to the Constitutional Court decision when such an act is not in agreement with the Constitution, or how it ceases to apply. The same principle should apply here as in Article 58(1), which is that the confirmed international contract ceases to apply if it does not comply with the Constitution on the date of publication of the Constitutional Court's decision in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. There's no transmission. Here I go. Mr. Minister, you're saying the constitutional appeal didn't exist in our legal system. There was, Mr Minister, the 1992 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and as far as I know, the Republic of Serbia is a legal successor and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and the 2003 Constitutional Charter prescribed the possibility of filing a constitutional appeal. My colleagues tell me there's no transmission, because of our practice we'll interrupt the exposure and we'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-08-0.u10233	Thank you. This concludes today's work. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., the first speaker is MP Bosko Ristic. Thank you.
