ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3050	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Article 226. I'm looking for a notice and I'm asking if and when will the procedure for the resolution of war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic be launched? Why am I asking this? For a few reasons. The first reason is because we did not get an answer to the question on which basis and under which law General Tolimir was transferred from Serbia to Republika Srpska without a decision by the District Court in Belgrade, which is the only authority responsible for making decisions on the issue of the UN tribunal indictees arrested in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. How can there be a prosecutor who does not respect the law, or does he respect the law or procedure of an ambassador whose contacts he boasts about? Why did I ask this question? For two reasons. The first is that yesterday I watched a special show dedicated to Mr. Vukcevic, where he boasted that he contacted the ambassadors of various Western states at least three or four times a week. Is he a politician or a prosecutor? The lawyers and lawyers he has here in all the parliamentary groups, I hope, will agree that he has no right to run politics but to do his job. Secondly, regarding Mr. Vukcevic, what did he do in the cases of the murder of JNA soldiers in Tuzla? More than 200 soldiers were killed in Sarajevo, Dobrovoljačka Street, in early 1992. I've received information that he has both cases. You've seen how this man behaves. A few days ago in the paper, I read that if Mrs. Carla, his friend, asked where General Tolimir was arrested, Mr. Vukcevic answered - she doesn't care, it's important that he was arrested, and the other thing doesn't matter if a black or white cat is hunting mice, it's important to catch them. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? He doesn't care if people get arrested by criminals or cops, it's important they get arrested. So I repeat the question, Mr. Chairman, and you see who will answer, "When and if a request for his shift has been launched"?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3051	I understand the question, you will be informed. The word is Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the new draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, and according to resolute Minister Cvetkovic and National Bank Governor Jelasic, the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 is deficited and the budget in the deficit is about 50 billion dinars. According to their statements, this is necessarily evil as a result of the current economic and financial situation in Serbia today. By definition, budget expenditure is necessary to finance the necessary needs of citizens. In addition to social spending, which should at least partially maintain some kind of standard of living for poor layers and giving to the authorities of forces, military, police, judiciary, which should maintain order in the state and defend the state despite the necessary in this bill on the budget of excessive financial resources for the state administration and other budget funds are spent on the needs of all citizens. These are financial resources for health, education and the like, for those branches that can't return the funds directly. These are branches that indirectly return even more than invested financial resources through increasing the productivity of the entire community as a contribution from healthy and qualified citizens. In normal countries, investments in those branches that "earth money" are normally not financed from the budget. Such investments are financed from loans, less frequently through concessions, and loans are financed from fixed costs of realised projects during the exploitation period, which is often a few-tenths of the year. If, in turn, such investments are financed from the budget then unwarranted financial resources are placed on the back of current generations of citizens, and the implemented projects are indeed without serious fixed costs. As universal privatisation is planned in the very near future, there is a real danger that, based on experience from previous privatisation affairs, new thief privatisations and such objects are being prepared. The examples from the recent past really do have a lot of sugar for three euros, and then sold for millions of euros, cements sold for less than 30% of the value and especially "Sartid". The Sartid was sold for $23m and the construction of Sartida costs Serbia nearly two billion. It is often said that the Sartid affair has brought Serbia now Serbia's largest gross exporters. The situation is much less beautiful if it is analysed than the Sartida foreign exchange balance, because Sartid imports iron ore and coke, which is a large import item, so the net external trade balances of Sartida are modest. An obvious example of preparation for thieving privatisation has divided 17, which is prepared by the Ministry of Mining and Energy. These are items 483 and 489. The majority of these items are investments in the development of a pipeline network in Serbia. It would normally be expected to finance these items from a long-term loan, so credit payments would charge gas consumers as fixed costs. Part of the price. For example, a long announcement of the gas storage facility was planned, and the construction of the facility would allow a significantly cheaper import price of gas at the annual level. Therefore, it would be reasonable for the government to treat this investment as a long-term fixed cost, yet the price of gas could be significantly lower. In the event of the expected theft privatisation of the gas import and distribution system, the privileged buyer would be honored by the absence of fixed costs, and this would unduly burden the current generation of citizens, and someone would be fat. Since it's already been four minutes, I'm going to talk about the remaining discussion in particular, or by amendments, but now I'm using the opportunity to ask two questions that don't go in at this time. The first question for the finance minister – does the Serbian military pay VAT on a 30m-euro remont plane in Russia? As far as I am aware of the VAT Act, such obligation is not provided for by the Law. How, then, is it possible for the Ministry of Defence to request the finance minister to grant additional funds of around 5.4m euros, allegedly to pay the VAT? What kind of robbery is that? That's one thing. Secondly, you hear that a formal invitation came from France to Mr Djelic, who served a full military service in France, and of course he had no idea that he was primarily obliged to serve military service in Serbia, or former SFRY, Mr Djelic was called for a military exercise for several months. I ask a serious question to the prime minister – how will Serbia endure without his help for so long?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3053	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, followed by Sasa Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a few minutes, a delegation will arrive in the building of the National Assembly representing the workers of the Kragujeva metal complex. Yesterday, the City of Kragujevac Assembly, which sat until late last night, until 23.00 hours, had to take a stand because of the concern of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and as regards their problem that I acted on during yesterday's debate and the continued status of employees in the metal complex, not only the City of Kragujevac, but also the whole of Serbia. In fact, they addressed representatives of the newly formed government on several occasions and went directly to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The minister did not find it appropriate to take them in, but as the union president, Mr Milic, said, some sleek, sluts who insulted them and did not want to talk to them seriously. They're honorable and honest people. They, five years ago, lost their job in your so-called delegation, and those they represent, a delegation that took Belgrade's path from Kragujevac. The transition process, five years ago. That's when the so-called "supervised" was formed. The Employment and Education Service, which in terms of certain social assistance provides monthly compensation, which is also absolutely minimal and impossible to buy basic life supplies with it, and these people, these are over 4,000, are asking for the status of the Institute to be resolved. I asked you yesterday, Mr. Minister, a question you didn't answer. I ask you again - in the division of the Transition Fund where there are 7.5 billion dinars you have stated that this money is also defined for these workers from the Employment and Education Office. As an MP from Kragujevac, since I participated here all day in the work of the highest legislative body yesterday with my colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, and, above all, Vojislav Kostunica, as they are explicit requests in a letter from the workers, who will be coming to the Assembly building any moment now, to receive them immediately and to give them concrete answers to their demands. Ours is not to interfere as politicians and folk representatives in the work of the union, but we Serbian radicals fully support all legitimate demands of workers, both the Kragujevac metal complex and all of Serbia, and you must, because you promised, as well as the previous government, to conduct this dialogue with people who need help. They're on the verge of existence, they don't know where their factory goes next, they don't know how to get people to whom it's... (Employees are getting out of place: time. Time? It's time, ma'am, for you to get serious, if you're an MP for the ruling party, to listen to me tell you in the most argumentative way about the torture of these people. I don't think that's right, and I don't mind that at all. You can throw as much as you want, I respect your function and as you are a representative of your party, but be sure that's not how these people who watch the broadcast react, and represent these workers and members of their families. That's a lot of trouble. In a way, you are protected when you live in an environment where there are no or no such problems, but there is no city in Serbia in which it is not. Members of the SRS in Belgrade where more than two million people live all the time, are intensively solving problems both workers and unions and people who come to them for advice or for our legal adviser and wherever they appear in the Assembly building. Imagine what it looks like when you're a representative of the people and that party that the people voted for most, that's the SRS, which is the largest opposition in this regime, and you live in the Kragujevac I live in. From leaving the building where you live, through going to the market, through going to the office or communication daily with people, you see that this torment is great and that it is a completely different picture than one which perhaps some of you are protected by both functions and different lifestyles can't see. Suffering and caring for ordinary people is primarily our imperative, our Serbian radicals, and as long as I can and believe that their determined struggle for it will give me strength, I will fight for the rights of workers, just like my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3055	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3056	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the previous speaker, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, the situation in the metal complex in Serbia is difficult, and it is also difficult in Kragujevac. Kragujevac is one of the larger metal complexes in Serbia. Of course, I just want to say that the last government has helped a lot and made a metal complex in Kragujevac and about 50% of all those subsidies have been separated into Kragujevac and what perhaps the vice president of the Assembly doesn't know, and perhaps knows, that yesterday in the City Assembly there was one meeting and there was an agreement, as well as a part of the agenda, the state of the metal complex in the City of Kragujevac. Yesterday, we made one decision, all MPs of the Republic Parliament from Kragujevac signed one agreement and an agreement with the City Assembly, to appeal to the Republic Government, i.e. The resolution ministers in charge of the metal complex, either to welcome us here in Belgrade or to come to Kragujevac, to agree on what further strategy and vision the government has of solving the accumulated problems in the Kragujevac metal complex. I am saying this because I am sure that the government, which is in one part of the continuity, with Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who has done a lot in the previous term for the Kragujevac metal complex, will certainly continue with subsidies in this mandate and that those accumulated problems, as serious people, will be solved in a serious way. I also hope that we will honour that agreement signed by the MPs, that within 14 days we will make one meeting with the resolution ministers and try to solve the accumulated problems, to the pleasure of the metal complex, citizens of the city of Kragujevac, workers of the metal complex and us – participants in the Republic Parliament, i.e. An MP from the town of Kragujevac, including, I suppose, Vice-President Natasu Jovanovic, who couldn't have been present at the meeting for objective reasons yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3057	The replica was reported by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is why the SRS is individually the strongest party in both the town of Kragujevac and why it wins in Kragujevac. Because we, as a team group and as a group of councilmen who are the strongest opposition to the current government, always work so that we never feel when one of us is not present. Mr. Vucicevic, not only am I in progress, but also before that happened on the agenda, the day before yesterday, when you were not, for justified or unwarranted reasons, in the Assembly, I updated that question. Since I am the chairman of our party's parliamentary group, at any moment I know what the committees are doing and when I am in the Serbian Parliament, where I strongly criticise this government of Kostunica, which you belong to and support. I'm telling you right now, and I'm informing the Minister, in accordance with Article 226 and Article 1. Rules of Procedure, that conclusion has been reached, but I am asking, as an MP of the SRS and all my colleagues, that as long as the Prime Minister and Resolute Ministers accept these workers today. It runs 14 days. Since you obviously have more influence, because you are part of the government, please call Kostunica on the phone, convince Mr Cvetkovic, convince Bozidar Djelic, when he returns from this trip, convince Mladjan Dinkic. They're not just looking for subsidies. There are six conclusions to their demands. They demand that the Privatisation Act be amended, to continue privatising those enterprises that entered the restructuring process and are not privatised, as it expired at the end of March. They are asked to allow pensioners under privileged conditions, i.e. with state benefits to retire. They demand that their severance, with the current 100 euros, be 300 euros. They demand that the state and finance minister tell them immediately until the financing of the so-called. The Employment and Education Institute, because they see that there is no job of it, which our people say "there is no bread", is not overqualified and beautiful people have seen the whole problem as everyone in Serbia sees. The big systems don't work, there's no small and medium-sized enterprises, there's no way they can go back to work, and they're willing to talk in that sense to see, based on their, uh, years of internships, social maps and whatever they're presenting to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I've invited them, they'll probably turn to you, too, to come to the National Assembly building. I expect them to be here as soon as possible. They said they were leaving around nine o'clock. Comrade Poscurica and I will see them at the SRS MP's office and mine, as an opposition, to this regime and this kind of government to seek immediate admission to these workers today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3059	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3060	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think there's any reason to call Mr. Vojislav Kostunica on the phone today for the simple reason we agreed on a 14-day deadline, and we're people who respect the deadline. On the other hand, demands that workers of the metal complex and trade unions have are such that they cannot be resolved today until the budget is adopted. We made that clear yesterday, that we have to wait until the First Assembly brings in the budget, so that we can after that solve their affairs, because they are resolved by budget funds. As for New Serbia, we are very transparent and do not deal with demagogy. Two months ago, there was one meeting with the unions in their factory headquarters, and New Serbia was then. As an MP, I signed an agreement that I would protect their interests in the Republic Parliament and make a union-to-minister merger. The agreement, next to me, was signed only by the G17 Plus MP, and it was justified that Mr. Davidovic was left behind from that meeting. At that time, the SRS sent a letter saying that the Fatherland Administration does not allow them to attend such meetings and sign such agreements. Why did I say that? I don't want to get into controversy with my Kraguyevchan, but I don't see why she hastened up some kind of deal. If the unions of the Kragujevac metal complex think it is a solution to come to the Republic Parliament today and receive them by Miss Natasa Jovanovic, to solve their problem, let them choose and solve the problem with Miss Natasa Jovanovic. I personally think the arrangements should be respected. We correctly wrote yesterday, made a decision, the City of Kragujevac Assembly adopted, within 14 days, that we should set up a meeting of the president of the metal complex union with the rest ministers responsible for the resolution complex, which can help, both with the finance minister and to resolve the problem for mutual satisfaction, which I am absolutely sure and convinced – that the Government of the Republic of Serbia also wants to solve, just as much as the unions of the metal complex want. But union expectations cannot be to the extent that they are setting conditions, but in some real context, let us not forget that, besides Kragujevac, where my greatest desire to solve problems is, there are other accumulated problems in Serbia's metal complex and that we must think as a serious ruling group and solve all problems, not only in Kragujevac, but also in Serbia, and it is my desire to do the most for Kragujevac. At the end of the line, we have also said in the Constitution that we will work on a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, and that includes the part of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3061	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3062	You didn't understand me again, Mr. Vucicevic. They don't come to me, they come to you, too, to a colleague of Davidovic and a colleague of Vukkovic's. So, they're going to come into the National Assembly building and it's just a set of circumstances that they're going to talk to me and my colleague Poscure first. Then they'll be looking for you, inform the people at the entrance that you're ready to receive them and talk to them. It is their right, the deadline runs from yesterday and they now want to see what you are exactly like me and my colleague Davidović and my colleague Vukkovic are ready to do, I apologize, and my colleague Zdravkovic in the protection of their rights. So they want to come to the congregation building today so that what was adopted as a conclusion yesterday brings us and we go that way. Don't expect me or any of the SRS MPs to write and phone ministers in the government. What I can do, what I want, and what my right is, and by Article 1. First of all, the Rules of Procedure, and as an MP from Kragujevac, is that this way from the pay phone and through public direct transmission, I call on the ministers to do so. I expect Mr Cvetkovic to say within 14 days when he is ready to receive them, because I am asking him a concrete question – I do not know what he is hiding and what amount he is assigned to the Employment and Education Office of these 7.5 billion. You don't know, neither does Mr. Davidovic, only Mr. Cvetkovic knows at the moment. Isn't that right, Minister? You only know what that amount is, how long it'll take and whether that's enough for these demands. Secondly, fellow Vucicevic, that is neither correct nor true. Whether you are correct or not is your business, I am not entering your way and the method of political struggle. First of all, it's not a country's, but the Central Country Authority of the SRS, the highest body of the party with 100 members, headed by the party professor Dr Vojislav Seselj. That's one thing. Secondly, we have never sent a letter to Mr. Milic or anyone related to the meeting in the flag group, but to inform that we, as a party of our establishment, are not directly involved in the work of the union, that we never go into factory halls and circles to hold talks with the unions, we already have a position, and I think it is okay that by law, you have fought for it, that workers and all those people who need the help of the national representatives are invited to, as good hosts and as high moral people, come to us where we perform that function. In the building of the National Assembly, I will receive everyone no matter who they vote for, who's the problem. It's simply my duty and obligation to all these people of the SRS, because that's why the people chose us. That's the kind of relationship I've had, therefore, ever since the party was founded, that's how it's going to be in the future, and I think people appreciate it. You know, it's happened many times, millions of times, that we can't really help people because we're opposition, and the government doesn't want to listen to what we represent as a problem. But you know what the size of our representative of the SRS is? What do these people always, though they have a hard time, go and say, at least someone listened to us? That's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3063	The word is Saša Valjarevic, followed by Goran Davidovic, and Vladan Vukicevic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Valyarevic. Total remaining time is 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3064	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by analysing this draft budget, I have noticed that this budget is not a developmental one, but a compromise of the ruling coalition. A deficit of 13 billion dinars has already been planned, and this is understandable given that higher expenditures are planned compared to revenues, as the new ministries now in the government cost many of these citizens of Serbia, as well as agencies against which the SRS parliamentary group was also in the past government, because they are parallel institutions that require a lot of funding. They're compared to the state departments for themselves. In order to satisfy the appetites of probably all the parties that are now forming the ruling coalition, you had to resort to this and create a budget like this. Mr Cvetkovic, the minister mentioned in his presentation that this budget and this budget projection would lead to new jobs and an increase in the employment rate in Serbia. I would just mention that since 2000, since the DOS came to power and since over 2,000 companies were privatised, millions of Serbian citizens have lost their jobs. Now, in your budget projection and in terms of economic policy here, you say you need to move on quickly with the restructuring and privatisation of public enterprises, social enterprises, banks and insurance companies. All I'm going to tell you is that this morning I had a meeting with the workers of one of the restructured public enterprises. Given that the restructuring of the EPS, i.e. the Kostolac kopova, now the business company Kostolac, has been restructured by five companies, one of these is now in the privatisation process and I can tell you that the workers came this morning and asked me to present their appeal, since they are afraid that as the workers who have lost their jobs in other privatised enterprises, they will remain. Why am I saying all this? Because the director who left the company, who took the severance from G17 plus, has set up another director who has absolutely no experience, the workers have been on strike for two days. The contracts they had don't realize, so the general confusion is just ahead of the privatisation. Why are you doing all this? In order to eventually, since some are already interested, to say individuals, come to the firm, ask around, see what the situation is that perhaps someone who would really like to buy this company and continue to act might give up on it, and whoever was already planning to buy it and do so for very little value, do so. So they've been urged to present this problem of theirs because surely over 50 families will be out of work. Four more companies that are due to go into restructuring in the coming period have about 700 workers, meaning around 700 families are threatening to lose their jobs. Why am I saying all this? Because when restructuring occurred then all these companies were not equipped at all to be able to operate independently on the market, they were already in the first year, and it was said that four years EPS would finance, or 60%, and 40% would provide themselves with the contracts they had on the market. However, the obligation to sign has not been met. This is known, given that the strikes were two years ago when these companies were to be restructured, so they are now left to themselves, minors. As far as the National Investment Plan is concerned, we see 44 billion dinars here being prepared for the new minister and for the new ministry that I think is unnecessarily formed because there was no need at all for such an apparatus to be created, but surely, given that we are being followed by local and presidential elections, since in the past assembly that part of the National Investment Plan was managed by the Ministry of Finance, headed by Mr Dinkic. It is through Serbia, wherever there were pre-election campaigns and in the re-elections, for example in the Municipality of Žabari during the night, what some colleagues from G17 said yesterday, that they were only working on the plan and projects planned for the National Investment Plan. It is not true, and I can confirm that because when the local parliament elections in Žabari came overnight, the machines of various construction companies began to pave the way for them to prepare themselves for the elections and to achieve the best possible results. So surely now that the DS is managing this ministry, or Mr Gilas, you are now preparing yourself to be in all cities where the DS could not, and also in the municipality of Povorec, where I am one of the MPs, and Mr Arsic is from Požarec, they could not win any better results in these parliamentary elections. They're probably preparing to do some projects now, in fact, we've already applied, but since the SRS is in power in the Municipality of Pogorjevac, the municipality of Povorec and the other municipalities in which they worked, it's trying to avoid even though there are adequate projects and in time we competed. It simply means that it only goes on the party line and only works on purpose to eventually win votes in certain environments. In order not to be too long and take time away from other fellow Members, I will speak more about the amendments. I'd just like one question for the Minister of Health, if you can stop the time. (President: The parliamentary question comes to an end, if you think it is a parliamentary question. Go ahead. You don't have the right to a new time, you have to report for article 198, and at the end of the debate, you have the right to a new time. If you can do that, if it suits you. Here you go. Here you go. ) I would ask Mr. Milosavljevic a question, given that this is his third term: When he came to the municipality of Požarec, he promised the end of the hospital, which was built before 2000, but was not completed, that he would give 6 million from the National Investment Plan. It was in an election campaign. There's a project and it's applied to finish the hospital. When will the completion of the hospital begin, given that they could not pass the censorship in the municipality of Fireman? Since then, there has been no longer any significance from those 6m euros that were then pompously announced in Pozharevc. That's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3066	MPs who have reported to the Rules of Procedure remain in the position to be injured by the Rules of Procedure. Goran Davidovic was just invited. Mr. Matić didn't call you directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3067	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very much in the mood to speak with representatives of the Union of Metal Complex, who will come to the Republic Parliament today. Circumstance was that yesterday at the City Hall session I spoke with these people. In a very open and correct conversation, we made an agreement that there is a two-week deadline to give the opportunity to people in charge, who are ultimately responsible for how much funds will be identified, how much resources will be allocated to solve this problem. But I think, as for responsibility in some previous period, I'd like to refresh a little memory and remind you that for a metal complex and for everything that was problematic in the town of Kragujevac a long time ago, significant funds have been allocated. I remind you that the government of Vojislav Kostunica in the previous period wrote off a debt of $460 million that the Zastava had, that there was a lot of infidelity about not coming out of the car factory "Punto". However, the fact is that in the next month we will still be able to see that this car is being built in the hall of the Kraguje factory. I am personally pleased with yesterday's meeting, and I expect this problem to be resolved anyway. He is comprehensive and requires true participation from all. I think there's also a mood by the government and by the competent resolution ministers to help with all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3068	According to Businessman, MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, first he wants the word Mr. Vučićevic, then Slavoljub Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matić, just state which member of the Rules of Procedure it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3069	That's Article 104, thank you. I just want to remind my young colleague Valjarevic that two years ago when the restructuring of the EPS took place that she was concerned about what it would look like, especially what the fate of the employees would look like. I will also remind those present MPs that five companies from the Kostolac Combinate have been singled out of the EPS and that it has become independent companies that, under contract with the EPS, have secured jobs for the next four years, that these companies have stood up, that they have all the opportunities for business and that we have one very good situation in all five independent companies that have been separated from the EPS. I will also remind you that at that time, the party of Bogoljub Karic tried, simply, by spreading false news that it is insinuating both the Union and the workers. Unfortunately, some workers have succumbed to this pressure and organized strikes. However, all that we talked about today with pleasure can be said that none of this came true. We now have five serious companies that can go out on the market and compete in any way with their own qualities, providing the best services. I guess that's how privatisation is going to be done, so to speak, the former part of the EPS, and certainly there's no fear. The guarantee is exactly what we've been doing for the last three years and in the Privatisation Committee, which is to control the process ourselves and certainly allow all agreed obligations to be realised properly, and if not, to break contracts with bad customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3070	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Vucicevic wants the word, and then Valjarevic the Messenger of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3071	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course I have no intention of meddling in the methodology and mode of work of any political organization. But I want to say that we have our own way. Our way of working New Serbia is that when someone calls us, we go and see how the workers live and work in that company, and of course on their request to help them with everything that is in our power and how much we can. Today I have no intention, I can talk to the union representatives yesterday, we'll talk for sure today, but I don't think I can tell them anything more today than I told them yesterday. I'm really waiting. I don't belong to those people who are going to call and call the ministers from this pay phone. I belong to those responsible people who will come to the minister, talk, make a meeting and connect these people with the rest ministers, of course, to the pleasure of Kragujevcan. It is my obligation and the workers of the metal complex, it is my obligation as an MP from Kragujevac, to specifically tell them and schedule them, and they will make an agreement with the competent ministries that will be in the interest of both the metal complex and the government, and of course the citizens of Kragujevac. So I'm waiting for this budget to be adopted. That'll be in the next few days. Today, we can do an empty story, which, of course, we've determined yesterday that within 14 days, we're going to set the day exactly and we can agree on who's going to talk, who's going to take the unions. Today, we can, just like that, have coffee here in the Republic Parliament, at our Parliament club. I'm in the mood to take the unions down to the restaurant, of course, for lunch. But I don't think I'm going to be able to specifically tell them what the expectations of the workers they represent are. I'll be able to tell them that after the adopted budget and within 14 days. We MPs from the ruling structure will keep our promise to the unions of the metal complex and the citizens of Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3072	The word has a folk MP Valjarevic, and then he has a replica of Natasa Jovanovic, which was recognised in the presentation, then he has a word for his Business, Mr Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3073	Mr. Matić, in one part, I can agree with your exposure, and in the other, not since I worked at the EPS for 17 years, I know a complete system there because I was also a 12-year manager of one of these now-restructured enterprises. Only auto-transport which is resourceful, i.e. the ability of the new director of Perica Mojovic, and not thanks to the management and general director and management of the EPS, or company, has managed to put the company on its feet and prepare for privatisation. He also created a consortium so that one of the tycoons and your financiers would not be allowed to come and buy that company. Otherwise, as far as the other companies are concerned, that's not true at all. The Prim company, which has 600 workers, has so many out-of-date machines that they can't do business alone on the market at all. So that's not true. What should have been done then was to modernise and to prepare with new machines and new technologies for privatisation. This is how he's gonna go for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3074	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the MP Branimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3075	Let me rephrase my colleague, Vucicevic. The problem's right in the budget. There's no money in the budget for what they're looking for. He doesn't have a colleague, Vucicevic. Are you the finance minister? You're not. You can be one day. It doesn't matter what you are, I confess, unlike Veroljub Stevanović, your doctoral qualification. You're an expert in the field of medicine that you do. But it's gonna be hard for you to be Minister of Finance. I don't know why you feel hurt when I call the minister to tell me, here's the third day, where the money is and why the factories aren't subsidized, like the Zastava factory, Philip Kljajic and the others. It's only in the deals, if there is. You know what it was like last time, who called Kostunica to sue you. He didn't want this Davidovic either. He didn't want anyone to call him, except for the secretary and Dejan Mihajlov told him – come on, I'll talk to him, I'm sorry, and he got some answer. It's a hard way to get to them when they're stuck in ministerial chairs and it's not that easy. As for the arrival of people and workers, they come to us, Professor Poscurica and I will talk to him and proceed afterwards. There's only one question to ask, not to you directly, but to this gentleman sitting here, Minister Cvetkovic, where's the money? I'm sure Mr. Secretary will come out and tell us where the money is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3076	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Branimir Djokic, after him, reported no more MPs, spokeswoman Milorad Krstin. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3077	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since yesterday was no time for me to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3078	Please, just say by which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3079	Reporting under Article 226. I would ask if I could have an explanation given that I was a representative by yesterday, until I came here to the Assembly, the Alliance of Essradic Music Artists of Serbia who gathers about 3,500 protocold people in our profession. There's a rumor here that it's not a problem for union representatives and certain structures to come along. I'll talk about the Minister of Culture and the Ministry who's in charge of our area. I should say a lot to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, which is also in some way responsible for our area of culture. To inform you, as MPs, that in three or four years until now, how many Finance Ministers were Mr Djelic, and so Mr Dinkic, we artists have failed to come to them for talks, to agree, even though we have sent written requests, which we have written so many times and asked to receive us, so that we can bring our problems into the field of culture, which to this day have not been resolved. Minister Djelic did not find time for us for all this time, although during his term, the tax was 95% on the artist's copyright fees, when I tell the artist I speak on behalf of all art associations – art artists, actors and escrow workers in culture. For Mr Dinkic, nothing has changed, and despite the fact that we managed to organize ourselves and create a demonstration with our own union here in front of the Serbian Parliament, and we were doing demonstrations during Mr Lecic, nothing has helped us. I want to ask you now, can someone please give me an update on how to reach the resolution ministries and ministers in charge of our area? You well know, when Mr Dinkic showed up and said he had cut taxes on artists despite all the associations that were authorized under the law to represent their colleagues, escrow associations, they never accepted us. That's when the paper shows up, maybe someone remembers or doesn't, his explanation where he says he made a deal with a singer named Pretty Bren at the time that he's going to cut his taxes to escrow workers. Did the finance minister realize that Lepa Brena represents all the artists in this Serbia – both fine, dramatic and literary, so he found it appropriate to discuss taxes with her, not with institutions that are legally authorised to represent their colleagues. To this day, I must say and allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3080	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3081	Let me, because yesterday I didn't have time to get to my turn. We filed for the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3082	Does it have anything to do with article 226?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3083	Notice, let me ask you, how can we get to the culture minister who wasn't here today? The former minister, Mr. Koadinovic, who received so many letters from us, from trade unions and independent trade unions and employers and escrow workers in culture, did not find it appropriate to see us for two years. I'm sorry, who they represent and how they get to the minister, I want that answer, that my colleagues are looking for and that they know which way is coming to the ministry that represents our profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3084	Mr. Dickie, thank you. National MP Sasa Valjarevic has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, Srboljub Zivanovic has a word, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3085	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, can say robbed and poor Serbian citizens. First I would ask one question, probably, many MPs don't know, that these days, 15, 16, 17 on the slopes of Cera, we can say on Cera, the CIA special forces have been looking for Hague refugees, and you know that on these slopes, peasants are picking up raspberries these days. Now you realize what it looks like when masked people get to those pickers and then people feel. What I also have to tell you is that on that last day there was a big storm and a storm and probably God thought of those heroes, so he drove them off their mission. Also, I would like to ask a question and inform the Ministry and the Prime Minister that he will be visited by workers of the Zorca chemical complex from Capca these days. There is no justice minister here, a man who was the president of the municipality, Mr. Petrovic, otherwise someone from the mercy of our city is called Bin Laden and because this criminal privatisation was destroyed by Shabac, the Sabbath economy and all that was worth it. What was worth – 25 thousand workers who worked until then are no longer working. The workers will visit this ministry and this government, to see what is happening to them, because these leaders have found buyers, or they have made commercial contracts with those customers who have run these companies for three or four years and have eventually escaped, not paying salaries to workers, and normally not all the duties that are related to energy consumption and all that is in this production process. Now you see how that local government worked. Also, I'd ask a question, see, there's a harvest on the threshold and there's no, as you know by now, the price of wheat and the price of all harvest products is always determined, but there's no today. The peasants should reap, but to pay for the ransom of that surplus they had. They don't know what price to sell it at either. What I will also report later on in the Rules of Procedure, since I could not get a word on it, is a story about this budget and to remind myself of the 100 euros you promised farmers to sow per hectare, as well as 80 and 90 euros per bottled throat. It was your political marketing, which is pre-election, where you thought, come on, we'll try to get the peasant to vote for the Dosmanlian government again, and you saw when the President of the Republic, Mr. Tadic, spoke to the peasants... (Chairman: Please finish, five minutes.) )......................................................................................................... The moment he talked about what kind of agricultural producer he was when he planted tomatoes, he only raised and picked one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3086	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by the People's MP Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am intervention at the same time as Article 104, asking Mr. Cvetkovic under Article 226, and you will hear what I am surprised that you have not responded on this side and you, Mr. Cvetkovic. Last night, before the end of the work day, Mr. Ognjen Mihajlovic, an MP of the SRS, spoke about the budget, and among other things he talked about financing the military, or the SRS's position not to provide enough funding for the military. After him, a fellow MP from the DS spoke in a row. The lady said, which, of course, is her right, that she doesn't care how much the funds are provided for the military in the budget, but she said she doesn't care how much you and your government, or Kostunica's and Djelic's government, and better say Solanina, how much money you have, she says, for the financing of the military, BIA and CIA. Now, I'm asking you, Mr. Cvetkovic, I've read this proposal well, and I haven't seen anywhere in what division did you predict funding for the CIA? You've probably got something going on somewhere, so we who don't know, but what we're reading, do you pay for the training of Dragan Sutanovac, do you pay for the training of Zdravko Ponoš. We knew by now that the CIA was paying you and we knew by now that Soros was paying you, but that you were paying the CIA money to the Serbian citizens last night when I heard that a woman who certainly knows, imagine, a spokesman of the DS, she knows exactly, is not, what Mr. Todorovic said, Kostunica that she was uninformed. I am now also informing Kostunica that he has pushed the National Assembly's Budget Proposal into which, according to DS MPs, there is and is an obligation to fund the CIA from the citizens of this country. Please, Mr. Cvetkovic, I insist, not only nod your head, but right after me, come out and say it, you have to know it by heart. You have nothing to consult, you need to know by heart how much you paid for the financing of the Sutanovec, Vuk Jeremic, Ponos and other CIA agents who, unfortunately, are now working in the government of the Republic of Serbia and to see how much it is... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... It cost the citizens of Serbia, or how much you predict it will cost them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3088	The word has a People's MP, Milorad Krstin, and after that, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3089	I'll wait, if I have to, here, Minister, I'll give you...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3090	The Minister has the right at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, but there's still a few minutes left for the SRS, and I'm gonna try to be... (President: nine minutes.) )......................................................................................................... A short one so at least another colleague can get out. When it comes to the budget, you can't talk without mentioning that split especially about the agrarian budget. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament from the ruling coalition and the gentlemen of the government, you should know that the harvest of wheat, the harvest of barley, the harvest of tails has begun. The worst thing about this is that these agricultural producers or farmers, peasants, couples don't know or have any vision that's going to be the price of wheat, rape oil and barley for now. It is your fault, gentlemen, because, Mr. Minister, in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to sit with the Association of Serbia, the Association of Vojvodina, the Association of Kosovo and Metohija, and to agree on the price, so that these peasants who waited seven, eight and nine months to reach some first dinar in 2007, and were sown in 2006, you did not do so, but allowed the processors to be the ones who eventually bring the price of these final products to these farmers. It's this devastating policy that you're leading specifically towards the agrarian. The destructive policy that leads to the development of the village. What do you say about these short-term, long-term and non-refundable loans? The short-term loans started today at 8:00, and, gentlemen, here, at 11 o'clock, they broke off their short-term credit claims. You've deployed 1.5 billion dinars on nine banks, because you think it's that development and that aid to individual agricultural producers, or you've simply realized that you're just going to blur and lower the curtain, give them the will to move again, as they only know how to do in the fields, for those tycoons you created, because these tycoons bought the combined, bought the silos, the storage spaces, and they're now deciding which one is going to be the price of what product. Gentlemen, this is not the kind of policy you'll be able to rule for a long time. What about those 100 euros per hectare of farmland, as my previous colleague from the SRS parliamentary group said? That's what Mr. Agriculture Minister told Mr. Pajtic in Novi Sad, some, three weeks ago, that he would be assigned. When we look at the budget, there's no way we're going to get that number of acres times 100 euros and figure out how much that's a burden. What to say, of the 4,800 villages we have in Serbia, in the next 15 years, we will be gone about 1,200. That's the development policy you're leading towards the agrarian budget. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3092	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go. After you, the word has been passed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3093	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for violation of Articles 104 and 226. According to Article 104, insulting the dignity of the People's Parliament and the National Assembly, only the reference of such material offends the MPs of the peoples' dignity, as well as these congregations. It's very easy to prove, gentlemen, and if you've read it, you'll understand. Since I don't have much time, I'd like to inform the MPs of this Section 9, as regards the financing of the Ministry of Defence. You saw that around 63 billion were foreseen, some MPs said yesterday it was too much money, and others said it was a small amount of funds for our army. Since I've just been working on planning budget allocations for the army under the Serbia-Montenegro Army General Staff, I can tell you that for the military, it's not as important as you planned the funds, but as much as you realised those funds. In all those years, the army was getting between two and six billion less than what was planned. For the budget deficit to be ironed out by the government for half a year, it would simply inform the Ministry and the General Staff that they can't count on, say, three billion. After that, the army had to plan its budget. She simply couldn't take the food off, off the clothes, off the shoes, and she'd always take those supplies off the equipment, what you call material here, so none of those years the army could buy any of the new funds. Another problem was an insufficient daily inflow of funds, so at the end of the year, the military would have to make between 600 and 700 million dinars to the interest, and then the next year it would go down with a minus of two to three billion, so, gentlemen, that is why the final bill that you will not show to the MPs is important, because these things would be seen from that final account. When it comes to funds for this year, Mr. Minister, I have a few questions. I am particularly interested in Division 9, Function 210, economic classification 485 – damage damages or damages done by state authorities. This provides for 2.276,000,000. Otherwise, there should be a few dozen million in this item. I'm looking for an explanation as to why such a large amount of funding is being provided because the homeless military reports to me that it's approximately 468 flats of 60 square meters. Next, Mr. Minister, page 138 states that the military is setting aside funds for the rental of capacity for human accommodation due to the inability to provide facilities for these purposes after NATO bombing. Let me inform you, Mr. Minister, that since 2003 there is no need to accommodate any individual in the military because the military has solved these problems from 2000 to 2003. Is this just copying or informing us that this is a mistake or that I'm not well aware of the situation in the military? Next, on page 63 Division, 59 Chapter 28 functions 130, economic classification 511 – buildings and construction facilities in the Kosovo district, scheduled for 336,036,000. Then, below that are the same funds, but now depicted as neutral privatisation incomes from earlier years for Kosovo's district, but also for the entire Division 59, where the districts are spoken of. This is completely unclear not only to me, but to any MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3094	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget of the Republic of Serbia as well as the budget of each country is the best indicator of whether the state is well-organised. I would like to remind you that when the DOS came against the government in 2000, he promised to make Serbia a rational effective state. Today we have a massive administrative apparatus, we have 22 ministries, we have even one minister without a portfolio. The ideological father, one of the ideological fathers of today's ruling Moša Pijada coalition, said that the minister without a portfolio is actually a 'Minister without a Ministry'. The minister of god without portfolios, as envisioned by the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, spends a total of 4.150,550,000 dinars. Today in Serbia, we have around 22 ministries and about 20 administration bodies in the form of ministries. Just to remind you that the first government of Vojislav Kostunica had 17 ministries, and this one has much more, not to mention a whole series of agencies. After 2000, the ruling coalition, or DOS in various variants, was affected by a real political disease called "agencies". According to your American mentors, you started a whole series of institutions, and since you didn't know how to legally define them, or what their legal nature is, you called them agencies, and today in Serbia we have three types of agencies that spend huge budgets. Most of these agencies are actually doing nothing because no administrative, technical, financial and personnel assumptions have yet to be created that these agencies are starting to work. We have agencies as public services, we have agencies as special organizations, and we have agencies that have no other definition, and that's from a legal point of view one completely pointless definition, we have agencies as public agencies within the meaning of the Law on Public Agencys. I don't know whether the Prime Minister or the Finance Minister are in charge of this, that we are today a country that eats itself, because about 50% of the budget is actually determined to finance a bulky administrative apparatus that is inefficient, which is expensive and which is actually filled by the ruling coalition bringing its party personnel, so that the Republic of Serbia is today, as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund indicators show, the state that spends funds to finance the administration and that it is at the very top of Europe, with so many unemployed. With so many economic problems, it simply raises the question of why such a massive administration. I just want to remind you of an organ that I as a lawyer don't know how to define. It's the Environmental Protection Agency. In the Ministry Act, this agency is defined as an organ within the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I would remind you that according to the Law on State Administration, there are only the authorities of the administration as part of the ministries, and you have not defined this agency as the authority of the administration, but as an authority, and I as a lawyer do not know what its legal nature is. It's not the Ministry, it's not the authority of the administration, it's not a special organization, it's a simple organ. What kind of organ? Such a definition is anti-constitutional and for such an anti-constitutional agency you, gentlemen, separate the entire 16.113,000 dinars. Furthermore, for the People's Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, for which I also don't know what it is because it is not predicted by the Constitution of Serbia and the applicable regulations, you have also provided huge funds. I also do not understand in the explanation of the draft budget, I apologize for having to speak faster because the time to escape, for the Ministry of Education on the side of 165 of the draft budget, states that the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 is the largest amount of funds assigned to the services per contract and for pedagogical supervision and educational inspection. I don't understand how the Ministry of Education, in whose original jurisdiction it is to carry out inspection tasks in the field of education, can conclude contracts with someone else. It's simply an illegal and illegal definition. It is the original jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, to exercise administrative oversight in the field of education, and there is no Ministry of Education with whom to conclude the contract, but only to do so. Also, I don't understand because I come from this world of education myself, you wrote in the explanation of the Budget Proposal on the pages of 165 education programmes and professional training of employees, translation. Then, you singled out funds for energy efficiency projects. I don't know what the Ministry of Education has to do with a project called energy efficiency. It may be a project for another ministry, but it certainly isn't for the Ministry of Education. Here in the end, I have to, Mr. Vukic gave you a lecture yesterday on linguistics, and I don't think it's up to me to remind you of a really huge tabular and logical mistake that's been subdued in this draft budget of yours. On page 131, you probably want to be modern and be great Europeans and so on, you wrote this, "The jurisdiction of this prosecution," according to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, "proceeding criminal proceedings". I don't know if you know that the "process" is a Latin word for the Serbian word "process" and that what you wrote actually means the processing of criminal processes. Take care of the style and language sides of all the bill you're delivering. In the benches where SRS MPs sit there, most of them are educated people, and we take great care not only of the material and legal qualities of the bill that come to us, but also of their language pages.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3096	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3097	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. I'm sorry we had so little time, I didn't make it in time to see one thing I wanted the government's representatives inform me about. Mr. Minister, if I see correctly, this is where the state audit institution says, the total cost of 9.826,000 dinars. I have a question for you – The State Audit Institute has not been established since May 2005. Six years in this congregation, no matter what composition, no final accounts have been transferred. My question to you is – do you really think that the State Auditing Institution, whose advice we have not yet established, for 100,000 euros for this purpose in progress, for the second half of this year, can control all budget revenues, expenditures, secondary budget users, does not matter how. Gentlemen, this institution is the most important institution for me to be established by this budget. This is a legal obligation. I argue it is not possible to establish an independent audit body with a total cost of 100,000 euros per year, which should control the seven billion euros that exist in this budget. My question is whether this is similar to the small budget for both the Ombudsman and the part relating to the trustees for information that relawed institutes, institutes that represent a legal obligation do not actually work. What we are afraid of in the consumption of these small seven billion euros, because seven billion cannot solve all problems in Serbia, we all know that, and unfortunately, we no longer have and this is too much of a exhausted economy. I ask you, if at all possible, given that I have not seen this submitted and the amendment, to be aware of the fact that the strongest argument for this budget and for such a timetable in the budget is that you have 130 MPs who will vote for this, to think once again that as legislators in the course of the debate, you increase the budget for the State Auditing Institution, in order to actually create an institution that will pass all six final accounts to this assembly, to see how this is spent by state and national money. If you would allow me, colleague Obradovic, two parliamentary questions, since I did not do so last time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first parliamentary question: 'Is anyone able to provide me with the structure of state reserves, cash.? ''As we only have ten billion euros in debt to the state, another question: 'Is there anyone who can deliver to me how the state is in charge of currency and per debt type, by classification, in which currency and for what purpose, if possible? '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3098	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic and Dr Rajko Đuric. First Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3099	I'm reporting under Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 2007 Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia in the work relating to the work of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, it is said: "In the jurisdiction of this ministry, the jobs that have been carried out so far by the Office of the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, the Fund for Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the Negotiating Team" have passed. A few days ago, in a daily newspaper, I read an interview with the new head of the Coordination Centre, Mr. Vuk Antonijevic, and I wonder if the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre still exists or has been abolished. If all competences from the Coordination Centre have moved to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, then what is the purpose of the existence of the Coordination Centre? As for the negotiating team, I personally think that the negotiating team was solid, particularly the basis of the team, Mr Leon Koen, Dusan Batakovic, Slobodan Samardzic, and if in the process of negotiating our and Pristina negotiating team the arguments would be crucial, Kosovo and Metohija would not be questioned long ago. Someone purposely on someone's account on the side of that team broke up. After working behind his back, Mr. Leon Cohen resigned and thus proved himself to be a moral man. Mr. Dusan Batakovic is leaving for Serbia's ambassador to Canada and making it easier for the other side to work. At the moment when the process of negotiations continues, of course thanks to Russia's firm stance, the primary goal of forming the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is to preserve and possibly strengthen the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the fields of education, health, social policy, culture, infrastructure and telecommunications. All these institutions consider UNMIK to be parallel and make all of them either abolish or integrate into so-called. Kosovo institutions. Unwittingly or with intent, the current authorities, who are the co-ordinators of the Republic of Serbia, appoint people who were previously elected UNMIK, or Kosovo municipality presidents, as well as Serbian environments in Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, there are those who are employed in UNMIK's municipality and I don't know on what basis they are on the payroll of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In earlier years, you convinced us that the start of large, primarily infrastructure projects and tax-listed the amounts needed to complete these projects. Now it's gone. Can this be interpreted in a way that has failed since the addition of these objects? If so, why? What is one of the most important things for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, is the return of the exiled Serbs. Of course, in order to get back, it is necessary to meet some assumptions. You know that Serbian houses are burned, robbed and destroyed, and that exiled Serbs may return should be refurbished in an ongoing manner. In the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, I do not see that some significant funds have been allocated for this purpose. But, therefore, I see that 30,200,000 dinars are planned on behalf of donations to NGOs. That's why I'm looking for clarifications that are NGOs that are funded through the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sure this money can be used more wisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3100	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3101	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for article 226. Rules of Procedure, but first let me say a few words about the draft budget. In fact, there is one happy news, and it is a new study that shows that Parliament's reputation has begun to grow slightly in the eyes of the public. It's a May 27th survey. However, yesterday's debate could, I think, re-depreciate the reputation of this institution, because we had an unnecessary and quasi-cultural linguistic debate. The participants of that debate have shown...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3102	Mr. Gjuric, I apologize for interrupting you, but it is the right of the MP to speak of the law in the manner he considers necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3103	Of course it's the right of every speaker, but our academics and linguists probably won't be in our debt, because only one MP knew to give a proper linguistic definition of the noun. That, I say again, can bring down the reputation of this institution that has begun to recover from a bad picture. Another thing, let me say about the budget. There's been very clever exposure here, and I'm giving our colleagues credit and gratitude for that. First of all, I have in mind Mrs. Gordan, then Mrs. Jorgenka, who had a wonderful expert presentation and I am very grateful to her, then several extraordinary exhibitions on the specific issues of this country. If you allow me, Mr. Chairman, to ask questions that I will ask, I say that for us MPs is of key importance, under one, the budget and its basic principles, or, let me express myself, the philosophy of the budget; the second question is the structure of the budget and its redistribution; and, the running question is budgetary control which is of paramount importance. Mrs. Jorgenka exhibited for me, ad hoc, two very important things. These may be guidelines for the future work of this Parliament, which is a question of money flows and the Treasury. I personally know, I've made sure that the vault is truly an institution for itself. This is not just a matter for me to discuss about monetary-fiscal policy; it is an extremely important political and democratic issue. (President: Time.) ) Finally, this will end, Mr. Chairman, and given that there have been national minorities, national minorities are still pastors in this country, which shows convincingly this budget. I am using the opportunity of the present minister, Mr Cvetkovic, to ask him to inevitably predict the item for the Decade of Roma, because only because of 10,000 euros, our country lost 12m euros. Macedonia has already won. Mr. Minister, I will be free to give you 200 dinars, if it takes more, to put in a split - 200 dinars - Dekada Roma 2005-2015, because it was conditated by son qua non, so that Serbia, whose name Dekadu Roma was ratified by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, began to receive money and that the programme would begin to come true. Let me give you 200 dinars. (National MP Rajko Djuric gives Minister Cvetkovic 200 dinars. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3104	Mr. Đurić, I thank you on behalf of Mr. Minister, but this certainly is not a way to raise the reputation of the Assembly, which you were just talking about. I give you a warning. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and a National MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3105	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning of the exhibition and the minister and all those who are from this, to say to the democratic bloc, when they praised this budget, said he was developmental, social and transitional, and in fact he is restrictive and economically unusable. I'll tell you why he's useless, which is why he's restrictive. You can see for yourself that the economy has been destroyed, and I don't know where you're going to absorb money because no factory works, it doesn't work, it's all based on the tycoon principle that today imports and exports goods, or this commercial lobby that is today the strongest and which actually rules this country. I wanted my exposure, but I didn't have time to focus on ten significant points, but because of the lack of time, I'm going to rely on a few that are most important and most important, which is that this finance ministry didn't predict money for the families of the Hague prisoners, people who are in Hague prisons today, people who have defended the country, people who are the greatest heroes. You didn't even predict any single dinar to help these families, and even in defending those people who are innocent today living in those prisons. It seems to me that the greatest heroes of today, the greatest heroes of Serbia, are in Hague prisons. Secondly, what is also very important, when you talk about this social programme, I would ask what socio-economic programme are you talking about, when millions of citizens are walking Serbia today unemployed? I'm also talking about Sabac, where over 25,000 people are unemployed, in Sapac, which was once the center of industrial development. Next, what else is important to mention? It's agriculture. I'm interested in when these subsidies you keep talking about, and about agriculture, about the greatest hero of work today, when every social system that's ever changed in this country, it's bound to the village and the peasants, and today it's come to a beggar stick. First of all, you mention non-commercial holdings here. You know for a fact that the largest population of agricultural producers is nursing households, because young people see that their existence cannot be based on agriculture, because the state doesn't think about agriculture at all. (President: Time.) ) First of all, agriculture has to deal with planned production to farmers, and as for how the state will continue to place its products, normally, it should deal with the market economy. However, there is no such thing in this country today. And you know for yourself that over 60% of the population today deals with this production. (President: Time.) ) Also, which is very important, which I would point out, so I'm going to ask you a question, and it's about infrastructure. You mentioned it in the election campaign and you mention the construction of roads here, because it's probably the biggest glue you want to stick to the citizens of this country. But there's the biggest robbery? Look only at the construction of these roads and after a year or two on the same roads there are black spots, there is no technical reception of the road infrastructure. As you can see, that's where the money is stolen, and what you promise in a pre-election campaign with that road infrastructure, to get to every village and every house, these are your biggest political failures. I would ask the current ministry to answer me -- after the 21st parliamentary elections, there was a gathering of disgruntled peasants of Machva, Pocerina, Posavotamnava, when they blocked the roads in order for the Ministry and the Government to hear their demands. (President: I thank you, Mr. Zivanovic. It's starting in the sixth minute. I want to ask you a question. Finally, to answer me, Who ordered the police to intervene and disperse these martyrs who waited five days and five nights for help, to turn to them, so that they could solve their burning issues? Therefore, I believe that what has happened to one of the greatest shame, because you have always pointed out that the sight of your democracy is that the police must not intervene, that every request of all the citizens gathered must be resolved. Probably your five-octobaric coup, when you've solved everything that way, you want to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3106	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3107	I appeal to Article 226, but, Mr. Obradovic, I am not asking for an answer, but I am asking for a notice and an explanation from the present minister, given that what is the theme of my interest is precisely the point of the agenda that we are discussing today. What's this about? We had a complete announcement a few years ago to start importing labor, just to remind you. It is in the concept of what – fair, and we have been importing labour for two years. Let me remind you that for three years, peanuts have been growing in Bora. Of course, I'm not going to ask you about the genus of peanuts and the assessment of how it's going to be this year, but I find it really strange that you're giving some positions here and that you wrote in an explanation of this budget that there are unemployed people in Serbia. When you were telling the truth, when did you announce employment and import or now you admit that there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed? And half the truth. You made that clear to me. So half of you lied, half of you told the truth, that's completely clear to me. In order to know what to do with this draft of your budget law, I think it will be interesting for all MPs to explain to us how you've come to some positions. Can you explain Section 11 of the Budget Law and tell us what your own incomes are, the Security Information Agency. This is column 7, Section 11, the "own revenue of the budget user" is stated and is, of course, given a fairly large amount of funds. Furthermore, in Section 12, I'm interested in what these 111 million dinars mean and something else, and it's still in column 7-7 million, so that's about 119 million by contract service. Is it possible, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you should be paying for consultants? Are you going as a consultant to take Vlahovic, "Deloitte & Touche" or someone else? I don't know what they'd advise you when you made the trade. Let me tell you right now, this is my thirteenth budget, just to remind you, the best budgets and budget laws Mr Zebic worked with Miroslav. When you started making new things in the budget system, then this is the look of a budget where you can't see anything. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. There's time, Mr. Beard, don't worry about it at all. Under the Ministry of Finance you have a position, an economic classification of 612 – the main payment to foreign creditors, 205 million. Imagine, for the recovery of damages from natural disasters, this government predicted 260 million, but that's why 330 million were planned for damages caused by the government's authorities. This 330 million isn't enough to compensate for the damages of your government either. Just to remind you, 12,000 people can count on damage compensation, given that you arrested them unfounded and that's proven. I'm interested in what's behind these items behind these amounts. As part of the finance ministry, you predicted that you would receive some donation from abroad of 6 million dinars. Can you tell the Serbian public who gives you that money and why it gives you that money? To skip the customs administration now, and there are donations, and to come up with a very interesting position called the Treasury Administration. In order not to remind me, Mr. Obradovic, just to draw attention to the fact that you planned 77 billion dinars for that administration, at 170, I read to you, economic classifications 141 – payment of domestic interest, three billion and something;442 – payment of foreign interest 12, and even with some money on the side of almost 13 billion; payment of interest on guarantees 545, paid the principal to domestic lenders 48 billion. In this amount of funds in the name of the designed system, the withdrawal of funds from the budget and the migration through cash registers, the short-term financing of the budget, into the hands of the DS tycoon, which operate through the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Please give us that information so we can see exactly that, whether it's half-half, 50:50%, a lie – true, or maybe 99% is a lie and 1% is true. Since I'm worth monitoring the work of the Democratic Party, I'm working on your bankruptcy, whoever you're dealing with either you from the DS ended up in The Hague or ended up in the CZ. In CZ there is Legia, Sreten Lukić, Djordjevic, all the generals who helped you on October 5th, you used all the coalition partners, folded and dumped. So whoever goes into co-production with DS can count on CZ, The Hague or it's gone. Can I give you a list of who's not here? There is no Kum, there is no Shiptara, those who have allowed you to do what you did on October 5th, and Stanko Sutić is in a hurry, even though he gave 500,000 marks to Mr Micunović on the order of Jovica Stanisic, and there is Korac, and he will explain it to you. You know everything, it's published! Get away from the DS, it's dangerous!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3108	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request an explanation from Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, you either want me to ask you 46 questions, give you answers, or you'll give it at the same time for a position of 42 billion dinars. The predecessors, the MPs of the SRS, said earlier, I think General Belic said that 62 billion dinars were scheduled for the military. It's a shame, yesterday when we heard some MPs say it's a lot, which means that those who think so are not safe or sovereign of their country. Mr. Minister, I'm asking, you're in charge, only if you can't or won't answer, if you don't want to answer us it will be clear why you won't answer – you've provided for the goods and special services of 42 billion dinars. What are these services, what are these goods? Please, I'd like to know. The MPs of the SRS note that with this number of barats they are concocted and that many malfeasances are hidden behind this. What are the special services, what are the resolutions to conclude with and with whom contracts, what jobs? Will there be special services to bring escorts when they go to Dubai? What kind of goods do some resistors trade with? It is known that budget users do not trade in such a way as to present themselves in this budget. The next question is – what are the international organisations to finance the budget, to assist international organisations, in the amount of 441 million. What are your international organizations? Is it not those international organisations and NGOs working against the security and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, MP of the SRS, asked the question, so why didn't you remember to allocate funds to help The Hague indictees? And you know what they do to Hague indictees there? They apply all the sanctions except for the beating. Professor Vojislav Seselj experienced such tortures, except for the beating he did not experience, as you know, I will remind you that the beating and physical sanctions and penalties were abolished in Serbia in 1873. I'm looking for a unique answer. What are the services and goods of 42 billion? The SRS MPs in the previous budget pointed out, it was a definition of special service, and now you've reoriented, so that there would be no objections and that this would not be noticed, you say – services per contract, and in some portfolios, special services, and in some restaurants, both budget and goods users. That's what you have to explain, because there's nothing explained here. I'd only remind you of the next one. We in the SRS pay extraordinary attention to agriculture. If you, Mr. Minister, had directed 42 billion dinars at agriculture, you could have bowed down and bought 12,000 tractors, so that citizens and farmers of Serbia could use it, because they knew what they were supposed to use it for, because three times the income could produce our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3110	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Zoran Krasic, then the People's Messenger, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3111	Article 226 means a notification and explanation, not an answer in writing or a response through the media. I think the minister could collect a little courage, come out and say if there's anything to explain or explain, in order to simply lobby. I'm not sure about these 130. You've seen, you've seen for yourself, that the MPs of the government have submitted amendments and very good amendments. What would interest the finance minister and the public in Serbia, too, is this: you see, we have Division 2, where the President of the Republic is. We have an economic classification of 422, where travel costs are, you planned only 42 and a half million dinars to travel to Boris Tadic. But he also needs services, services by contract. So he concludes a contract with someone, someone advises them, to help him out there, maybe it's some other services, so there's 16 million and 200,000 dinars. You put this office in there, people's office, as it's called, I don't know, with 30 and some employees, completely unnecessary. But our president will cost us, ours -- yours, 170 million dinars. Now, since you have broken up the state twice, first the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, neither guilty nor debt, you are honored by the Air Service. There's probably two or three strong, there's a little bit of those pilots and something else. Unlike some other planes, they're planes that have to work, that are serviced neatly. You planned 253 million dinars for the airline. I am interested in whether the costs of the official travels of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and these ministers when they go abroad are shown twice – once in a position relating to the division of the Ministry, some Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, or all of this had to be as a cost of air service operations. Because the difference in resources is also how significant and how great it is. Just an orientation to remind you that the service of human and minority rights, which cannot fit into any provision of the State Administration Act, will, for example, consume 97.5 million dinars. National Council, that's this spy exposure to The Hague, 25 million dinars. The protection of citizens will spend 24 million dinars this year, and we don't have it, the next point will be that. And the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office 72 million, of which 3.3 million come from the side. Can you explain that to me? And can you explain to me the economic classification of the Ministry of the Interior, where you planned funds for fines and penalties. Who does the police pay for a fine? They pay traffickers fines? In 10 positions, you have damages, probably citizens and legal persons, and the damage is done by the state, by the state authority. Let's explain a little bit what this is about, that one of those positions is not spinning, since you're 50% honest, and 50% are lying, as Mr. Gavrilovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3112	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that there are no more members of the government in this assembly room, because what I'm about to read now concerns them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3114	There are enough MPs present in the O.R., as you can see.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3115	Mr. Albianic, I don't mind any of your flings and all your wits, since it's common knowledge that you're a very funny man. But please don't count on me this time that you took away from me on your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3116	Here, time to start again, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3117	So, in this parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for years we have heard the story of war crimes, for years we have listened to words, of course, of the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and of one of its most prominent members, especially from the existence of a multi-party assembly. From that moment on, we've been listening to the tirade that some people are responsible for crimes, how they committed the sea of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, how they were responsible for everything. On the other hand, we have some democratic majority that is beautiful, too smart, too honest. They lead us to a better future and they are the ones who will bring some kind of prosperity and some kind of prosperity to the citizens of Serbia and their children. But I brought it here today to show you, it's about a man who was Deputy Chief of State Security at DOS, not at the time of the SRS, but during DOS, it's about Zoran Mijatovic. The book is called "The Waiter for Serbia." In that book, and he, as you know, knows everything, he says the next thing -- he's talking about how crimes were manufactured right against the MPs here, how they were invented and who invented them. I will now quote the book of Zoran Mijatovic, so that you may hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3118	Mr. Vukiæu, quote only what the 2007 budget refers to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3119	He's referring to the budget, Mr. Albianic. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not taking part in the debate. But I'm asking you to take away this time that you've interrupted me needlessly and I don't know why you're nervous. It doesn't apply to you, you weren't involved, Mr. Albianic. So, he says, "The Seselj will be engaged intensively by DOS leaders at the time of the campaign for the republican parliamentary elections. There were also those who, by coming to power, felt that Seselj had to be extradited to The Hague, but also to ban the activities of the SRS. It's a fact, and it wasn't very public secret, and it was hard to go because they had a well-organized party and its leader against them. Special tenacity in proving the Radical Party's criminal activity was expressed by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. He has repeatedly insisted that both resistors try to falsify something about the participation of Seselj's radicals in war crimes. And then he says -- how come you, Professor, don't have any information about the crimes of Seselj's volunteers, and for the hundredth time he would ask me my dearest minister. The whole of Serbia knows something about it, but you don't know. Nothing is worth my explanation or the fact that in 1994, in the joint co-operation of the Belgrade and Valjevo centres, we did not know what everything, but I explained that Repic was a drug addict, an alcoholic and his crimes we could not tie to the party or its leader, etc. One day I was invited by Minister Mihajlovic and triumphantly announced to me – Mijatovic, we finally have real witnesses to the crimes of Seselj's paramilitary and its leaders in the wars in Yugoslavia; they are at my office and will come to you in about an hour, and they are serious people. All right, let them come. I answer recklessly to the minister, believing that who knows which time he connected some things. Probably on the basis of my intonation, the minister feels he didn't impress me, so he continues with a more murderous argument: people are serious, they have data on who killed 32 grandmothers. Prepare the reflectors and cameras to record their telling, the future first sablje waver will be scattered after the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. What grandmothers, what frogs? I don't understand anything you're saying. I'm honestly asking the minister. The minister starts to get angry, repeats the story of the grandmothers. He's become the minister's expert on grandmothers. They brought three of the most targeted from the Serbian Radical Party to a certain Ili Matic, who is called here in the book, Ilija servitude from Zaječar, and a certain Dacevic and a certain Jovic. The three of them are asking for their camera to be turned on and then they've concluded, all in all, because they insisted on how and what happened, that Toma Nikolic killed 32 grandmothers, on the question, "How and how can you explain it to me," said Zoran Mijatovic? - 'It's coming out. So there's talk, do you have any proof? '"he says again? - 'It's coming out. Question two: "So where's the word? Well, there's talk everywhere. And they share you, you key witness, who are you? I'm that and that, sir, Cheko, Dacevic. Oh, you're that flower. Where is it, where he killed and who killed, how, on the grandmothers? Are you recording? Come on, explain to me exactly what happened. Now let's go with the evidence. Oh, Cheko's got a little bit of an idea, so it's just like the old one again. It's a story. And who's talking? Well, you don't know that. "The story of the Jackna whose authors are these three.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3120	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3121	A little later when Zoran Mijatovic said it was pointless and funny, he called something later on, the dearest minister Dusan Mihajlovic, angry with me, or Zoran Mijatovic, because he felt he missed an extraordinary opportunity when it comes to war crimes. Today, who knows who we have, we lunatics have power over us. Come on, we've got thieves and criminals, we've got lunatics in power. Can you people believe somebody did this? Now I'm going to read to you about the budget, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3122	Mr. Wolfie, it's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3123	I'm counting on the time you've taken away from me and I think you'll be tolerated. I'll be very brief. Trust me, very short. This budget thing, Mr. Minister. Mr. Albianic, you are not Mr. Minister, and I do not believe that you will be and I am not speaking to you. I'm talking to Mr. Cvetkovic. So, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I know you're more comfortable talking to ladies than listening to what I'm saying, but if you have patience for a few seconds. So I'm going to show you the paper that brought the document in this book and the deputy head of the State Security Service at DOS time, at the time of the Democratic Party. And what can I tell you? The man brought in what, say, in 1998 received Anem's radio network. Now you won't be able to believe, folks, I have to read this for the budget, because non-transparent things are in our budget today, so I don't want these things to be repeated. To see Serbian citizens why Serbia's occupation succeeded. I am not saying this to harm my political opponent today, but to explain the degree of occupation of the Republic of Serbia. The Open Society of Budapest paid 426.800 marks, the Yugoslav Open Society Fund 196,000 marks in 1998 alone, USAID 113.3.60, the British Foreign Ministry, is nothing wrong with Mujo, nothing wrong with Mujo, it's just an occupation, and it may be nice for you, and for us it's a disaster, and for every honorable man it's a disaster. It's not that long a list, but it's big figures. So, the British Foreign Ministry, I don't know what they're motivated by, then the "Anex pro media" 203,200. AIDS, a Swedish organisation for which I don't know what, 114,200, the European Union, stood out in Serbia's occupation even then, 919,000, the Dutch Foreign Ministry, 231,680. "Westminster Foundation", if you haven't heard, is a very important institution for Serbia's situation, 47,000, national investment in democracy, 60,000, commercials for associated members, 200,000, British "Know how Fund" 24,000. It's a total of two million and 698 thousand 460 marks. I, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian radicals, to you, and to the rest of the free forces in society, I congratulate you for being in the first place, along with so many occupation pairs and so many occupation forces trying to destroy our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3124	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, when you say Delic, please stress that, because God forbid the MPs to think of Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3126	I told Bozidar Delic exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3127	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Mr. Minister, please, Rule 226 I request an explanation for the division of 9 functions 210 economic classification 411. Do you, Mr. Minister, in these 14 billion 954 thousand, as foreseen for the salaries of military employees also include funds that have been the state since 2000 and until now owes active and part-time already retired members of the Army for inadequate payouts? Since professionals and civilians have received only half of the legal minimum since 2000, it should now be perhaps several hundred million euros. 20,000 lawsuits were filed by members of the Army. A little lower, economic classification 464 – donations to compulsory insurance organisations. Do these 17-and-a-half billion, Mr. Minister, also include funds to pay the difference in pension pensions to military pensioners who were retired before 2004? These pensioners, regardless of the act in which they are retired, receive significantly lower pensions than those retired after 2004. The Association of Military Pensioners addressed former Finance Minister Mr Dinkic, and he has pledged to address the problem since April of this year. Next question, Mr. Minister, classification 511 - buildings and building facilities. Since there are 15.5,000 people among the military and military pensioners without any apartment, how many apartments are scheduled to be built for the homeless this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3128	Since the total time has elapsed, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want to do so. Yeah. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I think this subject deserves to be said about. For every serious state, and we are constantly talking, verbally, that we are a serious state, the budget is the topic discussed not for three days, but for weeks, because the budget reflects one business philosophy of the government, as the Ministry Act is one institutional and legal framework for the work of the government, the Budget Law is the most important law, because it shows, in fact, what the government intends to do and show what the ministries and all other institutions that are part of the budget will do during the year. For us SPS MPs to discuss this bill, there is no dilemma. We don't support this law, because we don't think the budget is good, it's not reviewed, it's transparent, as some people like to say. Many positions are unclear and there is a huge disproportionateity among certain ministries in relation to the importance that the ministries have in life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that means spending money or through obligations that these ministries have. There are a lot of people who are financed from the budget and, in the end, what's essentially not a developmental budget and you'll see when we talk about certain positions, how accurate this finding is. We must say that, given that today is June 20th 2007, that this is not the 2007 budget, this is the budget for the second half of 2007. It is interesting that neither the promoter, nor those who supported the budget, are this verbally, because we have seen that many of them who support the budget, in fact, essentially think that the budget is not good, because they talked about the bad budget items and talked about the 2008 budget, and what is a hidden way of saying that they disagreed with the 2007 budget, went pretty coldly over this fact. It should be recalled that the National Assembly was established on 14 February 2007 and since then all responsibility for budgeting is objectively on the assembly majority. It should also be mentioned that the proposer, and it is interesting that those who have supported this budget, have skipped to say one word about how Serbia is financed to this day, or until the moment this budget is adopted, because it is one way of funding that is neither constitutional nor legal. The draft budget, i.e. to vote, needs to hide this illegality, to conceal it and to subsequently legalise it. It is very interesting that part of the congregation's majority, which said a few weeks ago that the budget was both the first and the only and most important that should be the subject of the Assembly's work, and before that, before they became the majority of the assembly, and I mean, above all, the MPs of the DS, claimed that the regulations were against the law and that they had not said one word, but not a single word of that period, which means that they were essentially much more suited to the fact that they had entered power, rather than ready to give meaning to what they were saying to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You remember a few months or a few weeks ago, they said that the draft budget law is something that is most important, because it needs that illegality of the Regulation to be eliminated. Of course, they condemned those who had adopted the Regulation on the financing of the Republic of Serbia, because they were their friends from the congregation majority, but they mentioned Kosovo as a very important topic, and there is nothing of it today. It should also mention the fact that, although this is for the state, the most important issue for the government is another important issue in the classification of the issue, because it is most important for the government that the issue of trust is raised to the government and the second question is the budget, that we received the law only on Friday afternoon. You have seen for yourself that this budget has several hundred pages, that certain parts of this budget are written in a very unblemished way, letters are very small and it takes a shovel to read something and to essentially try to figure out what is in that budget. We must mention that the MPs are DS, because they are essentially defending the budget, and MPs and colleagues from the DSS as if they do not exist as part of the congregation's majority, because they do not clearly involve themselves in this story. That's definitely what we saw when we formed this government and in practice it's now showing itself. You saw when the government was formed when it proposed, or mentioned the names of members of the government, that only the MPs of the parliamentary group applauded certain ministers. You can see that now. So, if he is a DS minister, these other MPs have no obligation at all to talk about the budget, nor to say anything positive about the budget. We've seen that this budget has been attacked in a hidden way. Interestingly, DS MPs immediately said that the budget is very high-quality, transparent, which means that the previous one prepared by the minister in this government, who is now doing another job, is considered a bad minister. It must also be said that this budget law was drafted in a way that did not respect the procedure for preparing and proposing the budget set out in the Budgetary System Act. In fact, the Budgetary System Act very precisely determines the obligations of this budget. It has to be said that it is not respected. For example, the Law on the Budgetary System states that the budgetary objective in preparing the budget is macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development and a reduction of the financial risk of the Republic, and the next view of that same member says that budgetary apropriation is used to finance the functions of the authorities of the Republic, to carry out their tasks and other purposes in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In an explanation of macroeconomic stability, there is no meaning in a serious and valid way, nor in financial indicators of what happened to macroeconomic indicators in 2006 and which elements condition the possibility of such idyllic estimates of macroeconomic stability. It is also surprising that the commitments of the Budgetary System Act under which the budget memorandum is defined in Article 1(2) of point 17 of Article 1 of the Budget are fully left out – a memorandum on the budget of the medium and macroeconomic and fiscal framework on the basis of which the budget and financial plans and the organisation of compulsory social insurance are adopted. The proposal lacks data from the 2007 memorandum on budget, economic and fiscal policy, with projections for 2008 and 2009 that the Government adopted on 2 November 2006, which, by law, obliges the Government to propose a budget or each government will have its own memorandum. After, through my amendment, I'll say something about it, show the government's relationship to its obligations. When you hear that, then it won't be at all for the MP, for the Serbian public it's strange that the government doesn't respect what it says. Unfortunately, it seems to be part of the government's work, but we'll talk about it eventually. The draft budget for 2007 is about 600 billion dinars, which was mentioned by the president of the Socialist parliamentary group, I will repeat because it is interesting to repeat that only seven years ago the draft budget was 53 billion, and now it is about 12 times more. Neither am I, my fellow Socialists, nor do I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be said to have increased the standard so many times, nor that the gross national income has increased so many times. What is the characteristic of this budget is that the budget is spent on many institutions, bodies, organisations, agencies. Unfortunately, since 2000, many new users of the budget have been established, all of this has been networked in a certain way, and all of this with a huge number of people is not something they can have and will have a developmental character for the Republic of Serbia. The draft budget law contains data on the number of beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't know if, fellow MPs, you've paid attention to that data, it seems to me to be on the 100th and some side of this draft budget law, but there's a number of 258 budget users, which is an enormous number. If it were to increase the number of people compared to some years ago, I will, for example, simply mention the official data of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the document – the State Administration Reform Strategy, which says that so-called. In 2000, the democratic government in the administration found or inherited about eight and a few thousand people and that in the past few years the number has increased by 19,000. Part of the argument is that a number of people were taken over from former ministries that were at the level of the federal state or the state union of the SCG. The fact is, definitely, there are a huge number of people who were admitted in the meantime. We've got a paradox here. Essentially, citizens are wrong. At the same time as the talk of rationalising the state administration, the need to receive new people, to reduce the number of employees, increase efficiency, at the same time increase the number of budget users, or the number of people employed in the state administration. That 19000 data compared to the number of people working in the state administration speaks for themselves, and you'll see later when I quote some other information about what it looks like in other ministries. For us socialists, the amount of funds allocated to the army of the Republic of Serbia is unacceptable. I say this by no chance, many fellow MPs today spoke about it, some yesterday, though, were criticising the draft budget law through a request to consider this when the 2008 budget is being made. You've seen that part of the funds has been allocated to the military, but what's interesting is what the number of people are dealing with funds from the military budget. That seems to me none of my colleagues mentioned it in a tax matter. This information is on page 98 of the proposal for this law. You will see 30,318 people financed from the Serbian budget. It should be the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I bringing this up? So, those people who are after so-called. democratic changes worked to destroy the Republika Srpska Army can be satisfied. They have achieved a strategic goal, they have reduced the number of soldiers in the Republic of Serbia to 30,000, that is official data, and yes, this parliament has certainly not been in the past seven years, and we will also ask colleagues who have been in Parliament of the federal state, whether a defence strategy has been discussed at the level of the SCG or the SRJ community and who has been able and who has established, by which criteria, the number of soldiers needed the state of Serbia to defend themselves. I say this not by chance that it could defend itself, because the military factor is an objective deterrent factor and what are the estimates that have found necessary, desirable, optimal, number of soldiers in the Republic of Serbia 30,000. The example works, just to remind those who do not know, Greece that is a member of NATO, means formally it would not have the need at all to own an army because there is a friend of NATO, so it will defend them from possible aggression by the Turks, you know that they have several centuries of certain territorial problems and Greece that has only a few more inhabitants than the Republic of Serbia has, that Greece has 130,000 soldiers. There's a really logical question why so many soldiers. Now to compare the number of soldiers in this ministry with the number of police officers in the MUP of 40 and some thousand, then we come up with a thesis that was very present in the 1990s that Serbia is a police state. It was the thesis of the 1990s, the ratio of the number of soldiers and police officers was completely different, and now we have in practice turned Serbia into a police state. But unfortunately, the police state of people who receive very low personal incomes for what they do, given the fact that they do a very responsible job. If we look at the cost structure of the Ministry of Defense, I've noticed one fact that no one has mentioned, so I dare say publicly, here in one classification it says that the cost of travel is to be spent on 1.500,000 dinars. The president of the Republic of Serbia is spending, I think, 42 billion, which is normal. The entire foreign ministry, which has been officially designated to run foreign policy, spends far less. The cost of travel to the Ministry of Defence is estimated at 1.500,000 dinars. I refer to this as one of the curiosities of cost structure at the Department of Defense. What's the point? If the members of the government were here, if there were a resolution minister here, maybe that cost structure would look completely different, maybe the minister would come out and say, Mr. Obradovic, the cost structure implies that, so that we MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia would know what the funds are for, whether they are meant to travel to Ohio, given that this is the co-operation that our military is taking, whether the planned travel costs of our troops to Afghanistan are for, whether the travel costs of our troops to Iraq or to another country that is under control and occupation so-called. Allied forces. But since there is no minister, we remain deprived of the answer and then we have the right to ask questions like this. If that question is not something the public might know, then the Assembly could have closed part of the session to the public, it was no couriness, so the MPs of the National Assembly would hear that too. How do you spend your resources in the budget? In fact, many people from the congregation's majority, many fellow MPs mentioned transparency as the basic feature of this budget. The fact is that all the positions relating to the way the National Investment Plan is spent are not explained and this is a serious criticism for this budget, such as the budget memorandum is not an integral part of the budget, and it should be, so it should be logical that the component of the budget should be the structure of the projects that are inside, regardless of what may exist elsewhere as a separate document or that the minister tells us for each position of each ministry what the National Investment Plan is planning for. But that transparency is a very strange relationship and there is an objectively one hidden way of spending funds. For example, here I take just one example from this very thick book, on page 44 of this Bill proposal, about 870 million were allocated under the Culture Ministry's funds to finance certain projects and then said 474 million, so more than half of them will be spent under a special government programme. So, more than half of it will be under a special government program, and this, here, to know what less than half of it is spent on. In fact, it shows one way. What stands as a fact, I mentioned it at the beginning of this presentation, it is simply that this draft budget law is not developmental because there is no funding provided for new investments, for new employment. There are funds that are separate for some companies to work on, and how, we'll see about that. There are no fundamentally separate funds for Serbia's new development, which is so much needed by Serbia. Unfortunately, this government is acting in a spirit that it is not interested in the state of business of Serbia, that it is what it is, so that citizens are able to cope. Those who work, their friends, acquaintances, colleagues of the party, similar and other people we hire in public enterprises, we put them on the budget, they will receive the salary, and the others as it is, but we will mediaally convince Serbia that everything is in place. About transparency, I've mentioned multiple times that this book is all just not transparent, that if you look at the structure, or what's written here, you'd see that 70% of the texts are the same, inside it hides a lot of things. For example, here is when we had the law, i.e. the resources allocated to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Administrative Committee, for fellow MPs who were not in the situation to hear it, I must mention that for example, 3,680,000 dinars have been set aside for the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But for the MPs, for all MPs who receive personal income here, I say all this peacefully, because I am one of the MPs who is not on the payroll of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so it's easier for me to say a few words to protect my fellow MPs, and I think it's a duty for each of us to be independent of political beliefs, for everything that falls within the cost of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, means, and pay and social security and travel expenses of the National Assembly. The international co-operation of the National Assembly and all the costs that the National Assembly, or MPs, can use for travel expenses, to attend the National Assembly sessions, is all in the structure of the costs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, participating with less than one third. A billion and sixty million dinars, and the budget is 3,600,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3130	Mr. Obradich, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3131	I know, Mr. Albian, take it easy. There is an item there that speaks – prizes, which amount to 1,600,000. When I asked the audience why this item 1.600,000, they said it was RIK, election committees. I said, okay, but let's make it public, so it's money for RIK and rewards, because I'm sorry, it says there – rewards to the MPs. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if they read in the document as it says, and this is what the Wolf taught us, they will say: they reward themselves. I'm saying this because this document has a lot of positions that I can't explain, if the promoter isn't here and I'm going to end it. The promoter's not here. With respect to Mr. Minister and no offense to Mr. Minister, many ministers have been far more active in defending the budget before 2000 and after 2000. So there's no party here. I think it's bad that the minister hasn't come out for this pay phone in two days to answer a number of questions from fellow MPs. This going out at the end of the agenda is not fair now, because it will remain his last word, and it would be interesting to hear in a long dialogue with fellow Members to answer certain questions, so to speak –O.K. the items are like that, maybe it's like this, maybe it's like that. However, your last word will remain, it is not disputed, you have the right to do so in this Rules of Procedure, but the media will only convey what you say will not convey any word of what we have heard. Because, for example, we heard yesterday from fellow SPS colleagues, and colleagues Mašić and colleagues Nikolic, different party belongings, we heard many important data on the structure of certain parts of this budget, the Agrarian budget and so on. It is not correct, nor is the relation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that there is no government here. The late Mirko Marjanovic, president of the government, sat here, and sat down ministers, so they defended the positions of the budget and spoke about the budget and the items of the ministry they represent. We have a situation here that some ministers have come, a little bit apologized among themselves, but no one has come out for this pay phone to say – listen to the people, this information you presented is not correct or is correct and defend the budget. They represent the government here. We are talking to the government here, but unfortunately the fact is that only one minister is present all the time, and it is not in the opinion that the Socialists adequately represented the government's position or respected fellow MPs. I think it's very bad that the other ministers weren't here, and especially bad that those who were coming, there were four or five, didn't go out for this pay phone and say something. I haven't been able to say anything about only six amendments, which we have submitted, regarding not only the budget law, but other laws. We'll use that right in the Rules of Procedure when the time comes, but I think this should have been said, because this is, I repeat, and I end up with, the most important law for the state. It shows the philosophy of the government's work, the way it spends, that the government will do business, whether the state will be solvable or not, shows that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will work in the part where the government has their share of responsibility. In any case, we SPS MPs think this document is not good, we haven't heard any good explanations. We do not think that the Assembly is respected by the ministers, by the government, that many questions remain absolutely unarranged and, without offense to Mr. Minister, he will not be able to make up for what we have heard in the past few days, no matter how hard he has tried or spent his time. It would be interesting, where we were fortunate to hear not only him, but also others, in any case, it is not enough reason for us, nor what we have heard, and unfortunately we have not heard much, only from the president of the assembly majority, not from the minister, so that we can support this bill and we MPs will vote against the draft budget bill for the second half of 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3132	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure,. MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the part where the speaker must speak the truth. Mr. Obradovic, not entering his discussion at all, said a fact that is not correct. All those who were in the O.R. yesterday could see the following, that six DSS speakers were defending the budget and of course they were defending the budget because Mr Cvetkovic was the finance minister in the government in which Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, part of the coalition made up of the DSS. So that I don't have a flatline saying that it's some number six or 12 or I don't know what number, I'll say yesterday that the DSS budget was defended: Mr Matic, Mrs Biljana Knezevic, Mr Shami, Mr Petkovic, Mr Nikolic and Mr Nedimovic. So, six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3134	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Djuric, then Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3135	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure Rule 224. In 225, and of course, I'm obliged to explain some things in my presentation, because apparently some of our colleagues didn't understand. I have to say, and there's my long-time friend Mr. Micunovic, that I'm not from people who are afraid. As the organizer of the demonstration in 1968, I proposed to replace Joseph Broz from all functions, and to Mr. Obradovic, please tell you that because of his discriminatory relationship, I am a Roma or a gypsum, I demand an undeniable apology. This is a democratic parliament and in this democratic parliament the chairman, the president must treat all MPs equally. Mr. Albianic, I'm sorry if I talk about this with a certain amount of excitement. I was talking about Decada Roma for the reason that Mr. Kostunica, as prime minister, ratified Decada Roma's document in Sofia two years ago, and we don't have a break-up until today, we don't have an entry. That's why our country, not the people, not the Roma, didn't get the funds from Decada, where there's one billion dollars and 650 million. Macedonians paid for 10,000 and received $12 million a month ago. It's not just about the Roma, it's about our country, and contio son qua non is that there has to be a split even in the amount of one dinar. In that sense, you should understand my gesture, because I am an extremely tolerated man, but there is a limit to what is called irresponsibility and intolerance. Of course I will vote in favour of the draft budget, not for that, but for solidarity with my colleagues. I have a lot of friends who work in education, I have a lot of friends who work in health care, and I know what the justice situation is like. I'm sorry, we should go to the prison in Sremska Mitrovica once, and see how the prisoners live, go to the Central Prison psychiatric hospital, where neuropsychiatrics risk their lives. The peasants will not forgive us because nearly one billion are scheduled for agriculture, as this will, I fear, cause structural problems in society. I said, on behalf of solidarity, I will vote, and I completely agree with those, now Mr. Obradovic has said for a reason that this is not a budget that guarantees development. The basic thing today, who understands what the term 'development' means, is, and there are many studies, please, smart countries have a development programme until 2300, based on 27 factors. It exists in the world, and we don't know the development until tomorrow, because development is based today, first of all, on science, knowledge and high technology. We don't have any of that. Secondly, an extremely important issue, and I think that this issue has been raised by fellow Democrats and fellow radicals, which is an unbalanced regional development. We have 22 cities in a catastrophic situation, from the White Palanca, etc., where the average salary is 4,500 dinars. (President: Mr. Djuric, we must respect the Rules of Procedure at least a little bit. ) These are extremely important things, and I believe that Mr. Minister and our Government will take that into account in the next programme. So, once again, if my gesture was potentially rude, I apologize, and I would like to tell Mr. Obradovic that, when he holds the presidency, he treats all MPs equally, because I publicly say, what you did, it's a kind of discrimination. I had already experienced, when I returned, that the public prosecutor of the First District Court would call Luke Mitchet, director of Tanjuga, for a conversation, because he had received a Gypsum as assistant editor of Tanjuga. I worked at Politics for 25 years, and no one at Politics told me I was a Roma or a gypsum, and I experienced that, now here, a year ago as an editor of Tanjuga. So I'm asking that public prosecutor, who probably grew up under a mustache or Stalin or Hitler, should that public prosecutor continue to perform that function?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3136	Mr. Djuric, my colleague-in-Office Radet Obradovic's procedure was not discriminatory. He warned you about the money procedure you made in the congregation room. You've been given time like all the MPs. Now we've caused a series of reactions. Mr. Djuric, I don't think we should treat the president that way. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3137	There's no need for Mr. Albianic to explain the matter. We're here to explain. The way Mr Đurić said this immediately after my presentation, it could be the impression that he has his remarks on what I possibly said, since he didn't mention the name, just the last name, and he has us two Obradovićs in the Assembly, sir, Rade and I. Now we see that this is not about what I was saying but what Mr. Rade Obradovic was saying and he will certainly say what he thinks about it. I am using my right to the Rules of Procedure and what a colleague of the DSS mentioned yesterday, I think it would be good, not for me, after all, to look at all the public of Serbia, to see, fellow Members, how some of your MPs were saying yesterday, how they defended the budget and how many MPs were in the O.R. during this two-day debate on the budget, so you will see that I am absolutely right, and that some of your colleagues have had one mime – they are all for the budget, but some of the budgets are like that, or, for 2008 we should do that too. It is the right of every MP to find a way to speak. I read it that way and I tell it to you and to others, because I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3138	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3139	I've been accused of being discriminatory. First of all, I'd like to hear why, I didn't notice that in this assembly any MP was pulling money out of his pocket or wallet and paying ministers anything. Therefore, if you find it in the Rules of Procedure that you can take out bills and pay ministers that and explain it to them, then I will accept that my conduct was contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If that's a discipline, you tell me which MP did the same thing, so I didn't give him a warning. As far as time goes, you're using time exactly like all the other MPs. I remind you that we have passed a law that allows minority representatives to have a natural threshold and that they can enter this assembly. That's what we'd vote for again. I will absolutely fight so that in your time you can say whatever you want and I will never think of interrupting you, because you think that some MPs are not speaking properly. It will never occur to me personally to assess the presentations of individual MPs, to say that this exposure was good, and this is not. Also, I will never say that only smart countries have certain documents. Does this mean that all other countries that don't have it don't fit into that order? What is discrimination shall be judged by the MPs and the audience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3140	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Zoran Mašić, and then the Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, and I would like to ask Mr. Minister a question, is about the debate we had in these two days, and the information that was presented yesterday in the National Assembly by the ruling majority MPs, and today by colleagues from the SRS, and it is about distribution, which is reportedly being carried out through business banks today, the funds of the agrarian budget. According to the information here, it's a billion-and-a-half-dollar figure. The funds provided as incentives in terms of short- and long-term loans were given from the economic classification 512. In recent years, for example, there have been four billion 397 million in the economic classification, in 2005, three billion 790 million, in 2006 five billion 508 million. This year you planned the budget, under that economic classification of two billion 732 million. I want you, Mr. Minister, and other MPs, eventually, and I want to remind the public that two billion dinars have already been distributed this year in the form of short-term loans, somewhere, in April of the month. If there's another 1.5 billion dinars being distributed today, that's 3.5 billion. This goes beyond this figure that you have planned under this economic classification from which these funds are shared from the budget. My question to you, is it true that these funds are being shared, that banks are receiving requests, how many funds are being allocated, from which positions are these assets, and if that goes beyond this amount of funds that you provided for in this economic classification, will there be funding for long-term loans at all this year? We know that long-term lending funds have been used primarily to raise multi-annual plantations, to purchase breeding cattle, to purchase irrigation equipment. So will this year at all be the means for these purposes, or will this year alone be the government's commitment to short-term financing? If it is, is it within this planned amount that I said yesterday was small and that it was twice as small as it was last year, it means 2006. I think the DS has made big promises to the agricultural producers this year that it will help agricultural production more significantly. As planned in the budget, and if the truth is all that's been put out, that it's all being divided as short-term, does that mean that agricultural producers will be cut off for long-term lending, i.e. getting the machinery and everything I said. I ask you to give answers to our MPs and to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3142	National MP Vjerica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague from the DSS just recently came out to intervene because the MPs are mostly from opposition parties, especially the SRS, because we have been speaking for the most time, to draw attention to the fact that there has been a lack of truth about the involvement of DSS MPs when it comes to defence, i.e. a comment on the government's draft Budget Law. She said a colleague that even, imagine, six DSS MPs defended the budget. There were so many of you co-workers, and now from the entire national coalition in the hall, there are 11 MPs, four of them from the DSS. Here, sir, turn the cameras around, that's where the DSS sits. So, the truth is that you're not interested in the draft budget, it's true that you don't care how money will be spent on Serbian citizens and I'm sorry that you're experiencing it the way you do, and I don't know why you just got out to intervene, but you're a dear colleague of mine said something that got me very worried. You said that six DSS MPs were in the hall yesterday, defending the draft budget and you said – of course, because Mr Cvetkovic is a government minister whose president is Vojislav Kostunica. It's terrible if it's your only criterion, colleagues and ladies and gentlemen from the DSS and from other parties of the ruling coalition. I expected when you came out that you would say what led you to support the budget from an economic point of view, in terms of Serbian citizens and the interests of Serbian citizens, and you admit here that the only reason the DSS defends the draft budget is the fact that the minister who represents the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That, although you thought you shouldn't have said it, and I think you angered all the citizens who voted for you, because they didn't vote for either Kostunica or Cvetkovic or Djelic, but like all the MPs to defend the interests of Serbian citizens, and even when you're in power, then you have a better opportunity than the MPs of the opposition. We make remarks, but unfortunately, we can't influence it differently, and you chose the government, you can tell Cvetkovic – you don't need budgets, back to the cabinet, make a new proposal, otherwise we won't vote for you and the government falls. That is the difference between the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition. If it were fortunate that you were acting this way not only on this proposal, but on all the suggestions coming from Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet, then you would certainly force the government to finally start operating in the interests of the Serbian citizens, rather than acting as if it were harmful as all governments have acted from 2000 to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3144	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic, then Aligrudic, then Srdjan Sajin, and two other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3145	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 226, just one piece of evidence as much as you, gentlemen, "democratics" abuse everything, including refugees. A member of the DS, a certain Dragan Sekulovic from Paracino, is the one where all DS officials stop by when they come to Paracin, misusing the name of the Association of Refugees, the seal, sent a proposal that Carla del Ponte be nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, because, she says, by her own free will, the world's apostolic of peace in search of truth and justice, a hero in the fight for the truth of the troubled victims. It's the same Carla del Ponte, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, whose hands to the elbows are bloody, Serbian blood stained, it's the same Carla Del Ponte who fills Cheveningen and European prisons with Serbian victims, it's the same Carla del Ponte you worship here and who offers you chocolates, it's the same Carla del Ponte biggest villain of the Serbian people right now!- I'm sorry. DS suggests, because this is not Sekulović, this is DS, DS proposes to Carl del Ponte for the Nobel Peace Prize! If I wasn't at the pay phone, I'd say shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3146	National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3147	According to Article 104 of the President, to whom he would add the following reasoning. So our Rules of Procedure knows more ways by which MPs can contact, they have more opportunities to report for a pay phone. One is the right to speak according to the agenda, the other is the right to replication and the third is the right to report if they think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I volunteered for this third right because if I'd used what's regular, and that's right to replicate as head of the parliamentary group compared to what's said, the turn would have come about five o'clock in the afternoon, and then it would have lost every sense of what I'm saying. In the meantime, in the past two or three years, we have simply forgotten how this Rules of Procedure is respected and especially one parliamentary group, it is the SRS group, insists on speaking and favouring its policy and explain its policy to the citizens from this pay phone when it comes to direct television transmission using this very third option, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, that's where everything and everything is said, and nothing that actually has anything to do with the true violation of the Rules of Procedure. I appreciate that, but, gentlemen, I'm going to remind you of one thing. The day we began the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, then Mrs Verica Radeta asked that the time for discussion be doubled. At that time, the ruling coalition in this assembly voted in favour of its proposal. I think that proposal was voted unanimously. She then told the speaker the following, which can be established and based on the stenogram, when we take it and look at it – that if radicals are not given a double time, or all MPs, I apologize, for the debate, given that the points are connected, given that five hours is very little, then in that sense, if time is doubled, if we allow it as a People's Assembly to be double, then they will not resort to reporting in the Rules of Procedure. Because if the time does not double, then that time will be compensated in such a way that it will appear in the Rules of Procedure and thus be discussed. However, reporting to the Rules of Procedure here serves all sorts of things, especially for the budget debate. You, Mrs. Radeta, had a moment's right to replicate the People's MP, whom you thought his discussion of you or of your exposure was related and who directly called you, which I am now doing. I don't think you'd have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, but you'd already report to the line office, so when you get in line, step out and replicate what I said. That's how it should be done. It's one thing to promise one thing, and then to do the opposite, to do something else entirely. Since I see that you are in no hurry at all, that you are completely casual, that you completely care what this Assembly is going to do and what it will vote on and how long it will take for the next few days, then let me tell you right now that we don't care. But that doesn't mean that in the future, as we have so far, we will refrain from responding to such insults and attitudes as you have expressed. So from now on, expect to get an answer for everything you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3148	There is a word by the Business MP Srdjan Sajn, then Milica Vojić-Markovic, then Bojana Aleksic, after Vjerica Radet, then Dragan Todvoric. Please stop and not spread the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3149	Dear MPs, I'd just like to say a few things at the end of this budget debate. It's about the next one. First, I believe that my colleague, Dr Rajko Djuric, or from another political party should really avoid speaking in this House about discrimination. I think it's the wrong message for the citizens. I do not think that this is the way to build a tolerated society and I do not think it is a picture of the relationship between the citizens of Serbia, compared to what is happening here in Parliament. I think that we should fight constructively in the Serbian Parliament for minority rights and for citizens' rights, everyone living in Serbia. In this sense, the Roma Party, in order to truly implement the Decada proposed an amendment, was constructive and I expect not only the minister, but others to support this amendment. This will create very concrete material conditions for us to welcome this budget with a healthy basis in 2008. The Decade for Roma can finally go to Serbia, in a very serious way, not to be just a declarative story of which there is nothing, just a mouthful of politicians, and the Roma in the moss feel almost nothing. Also, there's something else I'd like to say. Unfortunately, ministers alone are here, and there are no ministers left, because I would point out that we are in our programme and in the talks on forming a government, we have suggested that there be resources in this budget for all students of the first class in Serbia to get books. So, not to be a practice for some NGOs to provide Roma children with books, then to provide books for 2, 3 or 5 departments. Then we're asked by children who are of unromantic origin, they're just as poor as the Roma, why and who gave them books, and these others didn't get books. Our proposal was at these talks, both with President Tadic and with Democratic Party of Serbia representatives, so it would be good for the books to be provided in this budget for all children of Serbia in the first grade, and to move slowly on and to reach one day to ensure that Serbia provides books to its children who go to primary school. So that's how we show that we really care about children and that we want to create normal conditions for them, for everyone, for the correct life of the same chances. In the end, I'd just say two things in two sentences. One question, I hope, is that there are both defined funds for building apartments and legalizing mosses. I hope that the Ministry of Culture in the budget also has the means to form a professional, semi-professional group that will deal with theatre-claric creativity in the Roma language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3150	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is an MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic, and then Bojana Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3151	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think I speak clearly enough, loud enough and there's no need to be interpreted by anyone. I've reported in the context of my first report to the Rules of Procedure's injury. It was in the context of what Mr. Obradovic was talking about – the initial coalition, the cracks that are being seen or not being seen. So, I didn't talk about six members of the Democratic Break, six MPs of the Democratic Party in the O.R. I am saying that from the beginning of the constitution of this assembly, speakers on this side of the hall (showing their right hand) have come out and talked about the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia not being in the hall. So far, I've waved 20 times from the back row I'm sitting in, speaking loudly even though that's not the way I want to work in this room, showing that there we are. There's a guy here who keeps breaking the story about how there's no Democratic Party MPs in the O.R. What the distinguished colleague, Mrs. Radeta, said, that is, I am very grateful that she has devoted her whole address to me. But what I'm saying is, there was no need to interpret anything I said. What she expected me to do or what I should have done in her opinion is her personal matter. So, I am an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia. In the same way I've been chosen by the people, like her, like every one of us in this room, and there's no need for anyone to teach me how to do and what to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3152	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Bojana Alexic and Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3153	On Article 104 concerning insulting the dignity and insults of the National Assembly, as many MPs here are doing, who appear precisely for that member, I would like to say next. It is precisely the best way to insult the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly in the way in which the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is abused. This abuse goes so far that often the viewers who watch us, the citizens of Serbia, feel that the entire Rules of Procedure is actually a farce. Some opposition MP groups use it so that this assembly, instead of looking like the highest home in this country, of which citizens, who have chosen us all together, can only expect to draw conclusions, thanks to individual MP groups, increasingly and more is starting to look like an entirely unusual variant of Big Brother or one of similar reality shows. That's why we remain MPs very often forced, in a way, to get out of this room, not to always be in it, because we don't want to participate in an unusual reality show, with certain commercial televisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3154	He has the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3155	My colleague, Alexic, said everything that was really the essence of the operation of her parliamentary group and I could have done it automatically and not come out and explained it one more time. I had to, in order to point to this side, because we from the Serbian Radical Party took out the cards and now shows the screen that 65 MPs are in the hall. This applies to MPs from the assembly majority and MPs from the SPS, I think they've been inserted into the cards. I didn't really understand Mr Aligrudic's anxiety or the other gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Serbia. I don't know why he's reacting this way, do you want to say that MPs can't speak according to the Rules of Procedure, that they can't speak. Imagine how restrictive your Rules of Procedure is, and imagine, and you have brought it, in which way you make it impossible for the MP to do his job, when we are from the Serbian Radical Party despite the fact that the proposal is accepted to use double time to discuss the budget and other laws, imagine only that it is not accepted so that we can even say a fraction of what we have to say about the draft budget and these accompanying laws. We had to use time despite that double time, but we only talked about the budget. So, Mr. Aligrudic, I did say on behalf of the parliamentary group that we will not use the Rules of Procedure, I have already said, if you do not accept the proposal for a double time then you will see how much we are going to talk in the Rules of Procedure and of course, we can talk endlessly. We didn't abuse, and you just did. Because you just came out here and said I had the right to a replica, but I'm using my right to the Rules of Procedure, so I'd get in line sooner and you said what you said and you ran right out of the O.R. Hold on a second, sit down. Mr Aligrudic, bring other fellow Members of yours to hear something clever and useful from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. I, for the sake of the public, remind you, and we are not just talking about budget laws, but, unfortunately, it is impossible not to mention every law. We have six laws in the package, so you put together the agenda, so you make the agenda so you can unite both the grandmothers and frogs. Then you say, "We're in no hurry, we're in a hurry." Where was your hurry for six months without forming, or for three months without forming the Assembly of the Republic and establishing the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aligrudic? How are you in such a hurry now? You're in a hurry when you think you're in a hurry. Since the Assembly was established, take a look at how many times it hasn't worked and how many working days it hasn't worked. Then it occurs to you to work all night, then you show, God, interest – you are in a hurry. You're in no hurry, because you can't work fast or serious or responsible. Now someone's coaching you on the phone, and maybe the Shutanovac says...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3156	Thank you very much. I let you go for a minute, and I can't take it anymore. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, your predecessor who led the assembly allowed Mr. Milos Aligrudic to break the Rules of Procedure, Article 102, which says the speaker can only speak on matters that are on the agenda. Milos Aligrudic came out and said on what basis the MP could contact. He listed three reasons and said – of course, I have no idea to report to the Rules of Procedure, because I would come about five hours or five hours in a row. He violated the de facto and confirmed that he was violating the Rules of Procedure and that he was doing it knowingly and least he could do it, Mr Albianic, it was to warn him because he allowed Milos Aligrudic to break the Rules of Procedure, so Milos Aligrudic continued to violate the Rules of Procedure and to insult the Serbian Parliament's dignity. The fact that you don't seem to have enough hooligans and you only get one number into the O.R., and then you run to change so that more of you can attend, that's your problem. I would just remind you, and you, Mr. Gavrilovic, would remind you of the beginning of the work of the Serbian Parliament, when we elected the president of the Assembly, how the representatives of the Democratic Party and other parties very often followed the Rules of Procedure and talked about all the things we thought they should say, because otherwise they couldn't reach the pay phone. The rules of procedure you have adopted since 2000, or 2001, are becoming more restrictive. Instead of allowing MPs to use their right to go out for a pay phone and bring up everything they think they need to bring out, because you forget one thing – an assessment of what and how everyone says brings all Serbian citizens to the elections. We are not talking about you, or you are talking about us, but about the citizens of Serbia. They, for God's sake, have been gradually since 2003, but are increasingly making better grades. They'll especially have a chance to get a good grade when they slowly come up with all the dirt you've been doing since you came to power. One of those dirts you had a chance to hear more than an hour ago from Alexander Wolfich... (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. )......................................................................................................... from your Deputy Minister BIA's book or whatever that service was then called, in which way you destroyed this country and who all the actors were about it. And make sure that the citizens of Serbia have opportunities in the elections, which I hope will be very soon, to bring a much better assessment than they have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3158	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nenad Canak came forward and then Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3159	dropout from the scene: No, I don't want to go to the Rules of Procedure, I already have a final presentation).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3160	Article 104, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. So it is amazing that just 10, 15 minutes ago I said something about the dignity of the National Assembly in the way the Rules of Procedure is treated and the way the Rules of Procedure is abused by certain MPs and who abuse it, or by allegedly wanting to talk about matter, so they use the Rules of Procedure. Despite what we agreed, I hope by voting alone two days ago, that this will be different, I say to you that if a stenogram is taken and he looks closely, that many of the reports in the Rules of Procedure have been about everything, just not about matter and, of course, it's okay, because matter is only spoken of when someone comes to the word of the MPs and asks to discuss it in relation to the law proposed. Everything else has nothing to do with it. So here you can say whatever you want, and mention all sorts of things, and remind us of all sorts of ugly words that someone said to someone, say whatever you want, and that's your right, I'm not defending you, nor have I defended you for a moment. It's not right at all by the previous speakers to place a burden on me that I want to point out to anyone that he shouldn't use his parliamentary right. You have the right to do that. Feel free to report to the Rules of Procedure. Use your right. Just so you know, that's the way you advertise yourself, you think it's great. I would never define myself, but allow one thing, if you dare say that you are assessing how many MPs from the ruling coalition have participated in the debate, how many of them should participate in the debate, how many MPs and when they sit here and on what grounds, and whether the MPs are obliged to listen to everything they are saying, and especially when the MPs commit themselves and talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and to turn away from the topic that is on the agenda, then forgive me, and other MPs have the same rights that you have. You have to appreciate that. You can't say that you have all the rights and that no one else has any rights in this home. That's not possible. That's not how it's gonna work. If you have any rights, believe me, other MPs have the same rights that you have. I am the first one who would never allow any right of MPs to be insulted, and these before the MPs who are, in their position, opposition MPs to experience any kind of discrimination because of this, are simply that the parliamentary opposition is in a difficult position, by nature things in all parliaments of the world are so, rather than being MPs of the ruling coalition. Therefore, there should be a certain tolerance also in terms of the tolerance of any kind of occurrence by the Rules of Procedure and any form of notification for a word. Guys, there must be some elemental limit. This pay phone can't serve... (President: Time, Mr. Aligrudic. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, I'm just finishing this sentence. Therefore, this speaker cannot serve exclusively and mainly for the presentation of party political views. That's what party spokesmans and press conferences are for. This pay phone, first of all, should serve as a debate on the subject on the agenda, i.e. about the law. Secondly, it can do for this second, it's not controversial, there are everywhere in the world, but primarily and primarily for this first. You can say whatever you want, so it doesn't offend me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3161	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović appeared, and then Amjad Migati and Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3162	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I am particularly pleased that we have now had this educational character of Mr Milos Aligrudic's exposure and we really didn't know what we were entitled to, and we don't have what we don't have until you came to tell us. Please, don't go, something else, about the character of the DSS is saying that if you thought that blackmail was what Ms. Verica Radeta's MP told you that if you don't extend time by five hours, if you don't double it, that you're going to do it one way or another, it's about the character of your party and the character of your policy. That's one thing, so very ugly. The second thing, what I wanted to say to you as a member of the SRS is this, you didn't imagine that in just five hours you could spend money in a year, the money that the citizens of Serbia separated from the poorest part of the population. Please, Aligrudic, I'm talking to you, I've been looking at and listening to you a little while ago. Come on, why are you spreading your arms, why did you run away? You have no reason to run. What did you think, that Serbian radicals would allow you to spend this much money you took from the poorest part of the population in just five hours? We won't let you do that in 55 hours. Do you understand that? You're not going to realize this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3163	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3164	What's an example? Did you pay for the electricity? Don't. Did you pay for that, like, a million dinars you owe? We'll talk about it later. A million dinars will be...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3165	Mr. Migati, come on, come on, now, let's say which member of the Rules of Procedure and start the time to run for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3166	Article 104. I'm advocating Articles 104, 225 and 226. We're going back to the budget. You said that the budget was transparent, beneficial to the people and the state, etc. However, for some things that require an explanation, I cannot understand, for example, paragraph 2: 110.3 – 05 and 06, the President of the Republic, imagine, half a million dinars or 250 thousand dinars received from the budget, from foreign states and international organisations. It's so miserable. What's he need that money for? Why, let the state give the President of the Republic 250,000 dinars. That's weird. Item 41: 250.3 - 01, Mine Action Centre, and your friends from NATO who sowed death in the country, how many bombs they dropped there, the total budget is 10 million, and they didn't find it appropriate for those international organisations or foreign states to give some money to that people who were unhappy and who suffered from these mines, to feel a little better. How can he be transparent? What countries have given these donations, as you will, of which person? Two hundred fifty thousand, is that how much the President of the Republic has a cheap price? It really doesn't make sense. Secondly, why don't you even receive it and put it in some charity funds that can be distributed to another? How can it be transparent, how can it be in favour of Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3167	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Or maybe you're giving up?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3168	I don't know what made you think I was giving up, Mr. Dulic. Are you tired maybe?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3169	You seem kind of uninterested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3170	No, I'm very interested, but I have no intention of jumping, but I'm waiting very long for you to call me, and when I hear my name all the way, then I get up slowly and don't rush anywhere. I've reported to Article 27, point 3 point 1), and it concerns your custody of the application of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dulic. Mr. Milos Aligrudic tried to lecture the SRS MPs a moment ago. Of course, he can't do it, he can't do it, and there's no need for that. I think the public of Serbia and all the MPs here is clear that if anyone really knows the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then it is the MPs of the SRS. You may not like what we use, but you can't say we don't know how to use the Rules of Procedure and not abuse it. It is amazing that Mr Aligrudić can say that we abuse the Rules of Procedure because we speak and what he likes and what he doesn't like. He can tell us that. In addition, he still says the other MPs have no obligation to listen to us, too, I don't mind. Then he shouldn't mind if he can say that we're breaking the Rules of Procedure, that we're misusing the Rules of Procedure, that we've been speaking in the Rules of Procedure for a long time, let him tell us, I don't mind. I don't see why he's angry if we say the DSS MPs aren't sitting in the O.R. You see how well we've worked on you, now there's over 20 of you in the O.R., and just now there were four of you. You should be grateful that we reminded you of your business obligations and your parliamentary work, that your place is exactly where you are sitting now and that you should occasionally go out for this pay phone. Also, Mr Aligrudic says – let's look at the stenograms and see how many SRS MPs spoke about the budget and how much about something that has nothing to do with the budget. We spoke absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We talked 95% of the time exclusively about the budget, I could say 100 percent, because every question we referred to Mr. Secretary was, of course, exclusively about the budget. I'm sorry, just 10 more seconds. I can see it's been three minutes. We asked Mr. Secretary how money would be spent on refugees. Today is refugee day, Mr. Minister, I would like you to tell us what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done today to make refugees experience on at least a little more pleasant day refugees, which, of course, is not to celebrate, but for the government's attention in some material way, of course, is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3171	Final word, Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I must draw attention to the fact that the state of Serbia has a serious problem with the fact that June 20th adopts a budget that was due to be adopted by the end of last year. All in all, there are a number of things in that budget that are best said diabolical, but I would refer to a few of the most significant from the position of the AP Vojvodina. In Article 3. The bill's first position is actually prescribed Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Vojvodina budget is at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and three weeks of that budget, Vojvodina is used to finance capital expenditures. Right, Mr. Minister? You can look me in the eye. This article would account for 18% of the income tax on citizens made on the territory of Vojvodina. This tax is planned for the entire territory of the Republic with 61.4 billion dinars. How will you determine what percentage is achieved on the territory of the Vojvodina? By what methodology will you determine which percentage is and how will you and this next position of 42.7% of the company's profits from the amount established on the territory of Vojvodina, and this amount is planned at the level of the Republic with 27.3 billion dinars, how will you determine how much of it is collected in the territory of Vojvodina? Of the 18.8 billion that are only transferred to persons in education in Vojvodina territory are accounted for in 7%, the amount of the Vojvodina budget, at least according to the Constitution. So, we also need to pay salaries to account education employees, these transfer funds, in 7%, which further reduces the actual budget of Vojvodina. It provides 697.6m for funding programmes in the field of culture. The AP Vojvodina also has no influence, but the government determines who and how much of these funds are going. In this way, the Vojvodina budget could also account for all pensions received by the citizens of Vojvodina, salaries to soldiers, police and all that, and that is the logic that this budget in this domain goes to. In this way, practically, the Duke's budget counts on all these expenditures that AP Vojvodina, nor its administration, have absolutely no influence, no authority whatsoever. The total budget planned with 595.5 billion dinars, 7% of which is 41,686,295,027 dinars. Three-sevenths of that amount is 17.865,533,583 dinars. In Chapter 3 of Article 12, the Office for the National Investment Plan, Economic Classification 551, is offered. There are four billion dinars being proposed, and the Constitution guarantees these 17.8 billion dinars, which makes it less than 13.8 billion dinars and I really care that then, since the bill also says the timetable and use of the funds, these appraisals will be carried out under a special government act, so these funds will also be distributed from the central government in Belgrade. Finally, not least, in Section 12 – Ministry of Finance, economic classification 463, transfers to other levels of government of two billion dinars are intended for capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Nowhere in this proposal of the Law of Vojvodina has been mentioned. When you look at all that I'm saying, it is clear that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been harshly violated according to this budget and that there is a Constitutional Court that this country could not pass, at least in this section of the AP Vojvodina. That's why the Dukean MPs in the Assembly, our parliamentary group, can't vote for this because it's anti-constitutional against the interests of the people of Vojvodina, vaguely in the domain of a methodology that you think you're about to establish all of this that I've just talked about, not to mention that I haven't seen from which means you think compensations are done by Vojvodina, whether at the time of NATO bombing, whether from the floods etc., which are a huge burden for Vojvodina. That's why I'd like you to understand these remarks in the best way possible. With full well-meaning, I warn you that the moment the Constitutional Court is established in this country, this budget will have to be declared against the constitution, for the reasons I have given you. If you could give me an explanation of how it's possible, I'd be happy to listen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3173	Does the Resort Minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3174	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate on the draft budget law, and I thank that to everyone who participated, and I especially thank those who took this opportunity to talk about the budget and the package of laws. I will try to try to answer the questions that were in these two three days of debate in this presentation. First, I want to say that at the beginning of the remarks that could have led to the conclusion that there was too little time for the budget to be reviewed, that it was hundreds of pages, that two days were not enough, at least seven needed to read the budget. I took that as a compliment to the Ministry of Finance, because if seven days should just be read some material, how many times a week it takes to make it, to continue consultations. Based on this attitude, I would also like to say that, given the circumstances and the times ahead, we had to follow practically this time, but everything was done in accordance with the legal regulations. At first, there were three observations that I would like to mention, including the one we just heard, it was already said at the beginning, and those observations concerned the relationship between the Republic Health Insurance Office and the need for a larger transfer of some 16 billion dinars, which were not made in this budget. The second question was about the increase in earnings in the budget, and the third was about the transfer of Vojvodina. As far as the Republic Health Insurance Institute is concerned, I must say, referring to something that one MP said, and there he is right, that this is the budget that shows all over 2007, but basically only applies to half the year and respects what has been achieved and done in the first half of this year. I would like to say that when you put together that budget and work on certain positions, it turns out that there are a pretty large number of items and positions where the state appears as some obligor from a previous period. There was also a desire for all these accumulated problems to be resolved during this six - month period. I'm afraid that wasn't possible. The RZO is one of those examples. These 16 billion that we're talking about is some debt of the state to the RZO, which is created by a particular methodology, the question is whether we agree with that methodology or not, but I want to say that the example works, based on that budget of last year, had a zero. On that basis, the budget from the first half of this year had zero expenditure. Imagine now in six months withdrawing 16 billion for the RZO, which by the way is bigger than our total deficit in the budget. As a result, the Ministry of Finance's position was to accept that there was a certain obligation of the state and to accept to put it on the table and to consider these issues. I'd like to mention some more questions next to the RZO. We had around these disabled, wartime and so on, what all obligations were created, accumulated in the previous period, unsettled years and so on, and suddenly they were put in full before the six-month budget of 2007. So I'm going back again, the concept was to accept the existence of it, put it on the table, and open the process of solving it, so that at this stage they'll enter with one of their parts, and then we'll see what our options are for 2008. Among other things, it was one of the reasons why the budget appeared in the deficit. In particular, when it comes to RZO, instead of those 16 billion, we put in budget 4, of which 3.1 are directly for the fees and which are for the investment part, and about 900 million for the investment part. I also want to say that RZO did not refuse people to provide services because they were not insured, and the state was not paid, nor will they be in any operational deficit this year. As for the increase in earnings, it should be borne in mind, some speakers associated this with major problems, the position of the state, the vis-a-vis interested international participants in investing in this country and that large profits will cause expensive labour that will then refuse foreign investment. I want to tell you that this is about one complete misunderstanding. So this isn't about the budget increasing the general level of profit in the country. Budget has focused users and he only considers their profits. Profits in the private sector and industry at all have nothing to do with the budget. The truth is, there are some economists who claim to have some kind of reputation. This is already based on appreciation when they see that there has been an increase in wages in the state sector, then it will cause a chain situation in the industry. But how much is this really the case when you raise your salaries in education, culture, health care, how much will it spill on industrial workers, I think very little. Therefore, the observation that the increased salary in the budget reduces the competitive position of this economy absolutely does not stand. Third, regarding the transfer of Vojvodina. I respect the views, but I must point out that my position is quite the opposite and that I believe that this budget in this respect is not only fully in accordance with the Constitution, but that it also demonstrates in some way the desire for Vojvodina to be set up and treated in a constitutional way and that they are given the opportunity to have certain means. I would like to explain four sources of funding, from where the transfers of the Vojvodina will go, from which they are visible to me, and I see that those who read the budget are not quite sure to identify them. The first of them is already mentioned in the finance ministry's division of two billion dinars of cash transfers that are scheduled. The second is now mentioned, and previously neglected, a four-billion cash transfer leaving the National Investment Plan office. Under the division of other ministries, projects of approximately 8.1 billion will be launched, projects that have been launched, which will be implemented on the territory of Vojvodina. That's all you add up, that's 13.8 billion. So this does not include the original incomes that Vojvodina itself has, transfers related to earnings made in Vojvodina. Finally, a source that is not seen in the budget, which will certainly be present, is a source created as a result of the inflow of privatisation of enterprises that are privatised in the territory of Vojvodina. When all these sources are collected, then you will find that this will be at least 7% of Serbia's budget, as the law says. Now I'd like to answer some of the specific questions about how they came forward, how I wrote it down. A question arises regarding the Treasury, where an inflow of 12 billion dinars has been identified at the Treasury, and wonders where this inflow comes from and what it is used for. It's actually about the fact that the Treasury has paid off part of the pension debt and has withdrawn funds from privatisation, so it's registered as an inflow from privatisation funds and outflows based on pensioners. As far as interest issues are concerned, where they even come from, where they appear as income, which is the basis, where they are. I would like to meet the Members of Parliament that, besides this budget, I believe there is one misunderstanding. Here we are looking at a budget of current income and expenditure and we are at a deficit from the point of view of current income and expenditure, but we have significant incomes that are not on the revenue side of the budget, which is exactly what it says is below the line and we have significant savings that exist there. These are funds that are mostly from the privatisation of these companies. At this point, there is approximately one billion euros in unrepresented funds, someone here said they were budget revenues. No, they're not company revenues, they're completely out and that's the part that's on the accounts and he's very transparent. Whoever wants can come and look, ask a question, be answered in writing and given information. So the existence of these funds points to two facts. First, that budget deficit of 13.7 billion is practically already covered at the moment. So there won't be any new assignments. We already have those funds to cover that deficit, they're already in our accounts. Secondly, those funds that are in our accounts, of course, they, I say, get some interest rate, and they generate income on these interest rates. By the way, these funds are not in the accounts of business banks, because this would generate a tremendously large credit potential of these banks and could be the basis for non-transparency and manipulation. These assets are on NBS accounts. Also, that's the answer to where these interest rates are and what's under those other incomes in the vault. There was one question about non-alcoholic beverages, the elimination of excise duties and the placing of a domestic economy under one, so to speak, a strong blow and equating the position of a domestic economy with foreign producers of non-alcoholic beverages. I think that observation is basically a result of a fundamental misunderstanding. First of all, it's not an even position, because the excise is one thing, customs is another. Therefore, customs duties continue to exist, so that it is not equal to the position of domestic producers and importers, because importers pay even customs. On the other hand, excise, by definition, is a fiscal instrument that applies to something whose consumption you want to limit. Remember that excises are applied to tobacco, alcohol, etc. The excise is not suitable for fruit juices, whose consumption should not be limited. In addition, someone criticised why we now agree with European regulations, because it was in an explanation. These are not only European regulations and requirements, but also the demands of the World Trade Organisation. Let me say something about the Coordination Body, where there were objections about how the amount of this year was planned in the budget less than last year. My service couldn't get that information. According to our information, this year's consumption of 366 million is projected, and last year it was 284 million. There was a question about the final budget account. I have to say that, based on the regulations I've been reviewing, the obligation to hand over the final bill is tied to July 15th for the previous year, so my Ministry will hand over the final budget bill for last year on July 15th, on time. As for earlier final accounts and the fact that they were not audited, I received information from my service that all accounts since 2001 have been handed over to the Assembly, but that no audit has been carried out and that this is why they have not been considered. On my part, I can tell you that I am very interested in conducting an audit of these accounts and I am in general interested in all of the related transparency of the budget itself. When it comes to the transparency of some of the issues that are raised here, and about the way in which certain items are presented and what is behind these items, I have to tell you that this budget is done in a way that fully corresponds to the current Budgetary System Act and it is, in practice, up to the level of that categorization of three digits. There's a categorization underneath that, but it's not a matter of the finance ministry, but, practically, budget users' financial plans, so we at the Ministry have some details about those items, we don't even know. The finance ministry has also launched an initiative to make the budget even more transparent than it is, although, I say, this one is based on legal regulations. The initiative will result in the creation of a budget, where the ministries will be shown on the project principle, not on the economic classification. But it's a new methodology that we don't know how to do and to get to it, we have to go through one pilot project process, so to speak. We will choose two or three ministries in that budget for 2008, where special budgets will be shown for them on the project principle, and for the others they will continue to be with this classification which is now and then it will be the basis for us to come out with this way of showing up next year. As for the NIP itself and the way the NIP's funds were chosen and why it's so dimensional, I'd like to say two things. First, the NIP itself as such and its introduction into expenditure represents one decision, it seems to me even one political decision not to spend everything that is created on current needs, but to invest one part and make it our legacy for future generations to come. In that sense, I view the NIP as one digit that will be repeated in the next budgets, starting with this, in fact, already from the previous one, but more importantly, it will be our daily companion. The height of the NIP will depend on how ready we are to save ourselves from current expenditures, to be more efficient. We'll be able to invest so much more in the future. When it comes to this NIP, I have to say that one of the principles that was generally incorporated into the draft budget was the principle based on which legal certainty had to be respected, and in every respect, in terms of pay, when the protocols and arrangements were reached, everything that was set out by the NIP was also respected and what was agreed and where contractual obligations were created. So, maybe now, if someone were to sit down and do some kind of a new review of all these projects, maybe some of them wouldn't have passed some rationality test or the greatest rationality. However, we have come from the fact that this NIP will contain everything that the government has undertaken and does not want to break the contract in half tomorrow or not to realize it, to be exposed to court problems, to lose disputes, etc. Someone mentioned a fee for the use of mineral raw materials and the need to come out with such a law. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I support that position. This is not the Ministry of Finance's position, but I believe it is necessary for mineral raw materials belonging to the state to be adequately evaluated and that the state benefits from it, regardless of who exploited them. Of course, this law is of professional character and it must be made at the Ministry of Mining and Energy. A proposal has also been made to make a law to provide children with funds for schooling. We also support it. As for the debt for the military disabled, it was also about that story, we can't accept that debt, it's real for a long time, and it can't be resolved in these six months, but we have some initial means that we're going to start spending in these six months, and then see how we can get these people to meet. There was also a question here about people with special needs and whether it is true that a smaller item was planned in the current budget than it was last year. I'd like to say that's not true, although by reading the budget it can be concluded that it is true, and here it is, why. These funds are provided and spent over two positions, one of which is basically fed on the basis of gambling and is a budgetary fund for protection and improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities. Since payments go directly from gambling to gambling, it is practically not treated as a budget revenue and therefore not a detailed estimate, but only a figure of achievement has been put in place in the budget for the past five months. Our estimates after that discussion we heard yesterday, we looked and we came to the conclusion that the security number on the annual level would be at least twenty percent higher than that last year. This is the other figure, actually, this is one, and the other one is at the Ministry of Economy, it was at the Ministry of Labour, and it was around 720 million, and this year it's an approximate number. In total, when both digits add up, we're going to get a number that's bigger than the previous year. As far as the military is concerned, there have been inspired presentations related to one and a half billion dinars that stand out for military travel with a proposal not to, etc. I can tell you that this figure refers to travel predominantly in the land's security zone. At all, it contains not only the path, but also the stays there, travel expenses, etc., so that it is one of the essential items of the Ministry of the Army and should not be seen as travel abroad. There have also been some objections regarding some special services in health, science, education, etc. I looked with my associates and here's the information, although I'm saying it goes under that three-digit classification and it can be better found in the financial plans. But here, in health, these are additional salaries given to people who work in special mental hospitals, while science specialises in services are actually scientific institutes that are held that way. Before I enter the final presentation, I'd like to answer some more questions, especially which are being asked today. First, it was a question of what 42 million dinars were for goods and services, which is in economic classification 42. It's simple, let me put it this way, one accounting display where next to the budget that's broken on those few hundred pages as you said, it's given and aggregated so that this economic classification 42 represents a sum of this position of all the budget users that are shown there. What's a donation to international organizations? Donations to international organisations are, in fact, the quotation and payment of membership in certain organisations, and most of this item is located in the foreign ministry's division. The issue that the donors to the finance ministry are UNDP and EAR. As far as Decada Roma is concerned, you've heard the same exposure. We accepted that amendment, and it turns out that one misunderstanding caused so much trouble. I tried to say it's okay, but it doesn't look like it. So there won't be a problem. Then we have a question about the Hague indictees. He asked the international MPs to look at the explanations on page 128, the last paragraph, that funds were also provided for the Hague indictees within the Office of Co-operation with The Hague. The question was whether the military pays VAT, the answer is yes, all budget users are obliged to pay VAT. In the end, I'd say something aggregate about everything we talked about. I really thank everyone for the criticism, whether they were directly well-intentioned or just well-intentioned, and each of them in some way is useful, both for this one and especially for the budget that follows. What made me happy was that there were criticisms, even among opposition parties in opposite directions. So, some have criticised where the deficit budget came from, and others have criticised why they are small subsidies, etc. By the way, here, I skipped that, I was looking to answer the most important questions. As for the agricultural budget and those 100 euros per hectare of the sown area of individual households, this is included in the agricultural budget based on the accounts that the Ministry of Agriculture has worked on, but it is included, so the average will be that figure, depending on culture, etc., has an entire methodology. So, to go back to what I was finally going to say, which is that we have a deficit in the current income and expenditure budget, that this deficit is no problem, that it is already covered by real resources. Another piece of information, someone here was talking about the ideal participation of the consolidated budget per gross domestic product ranging between 38% and 40%. I agree with that, but then he said our budget was close to 50%. I'm taking the chance to say that's not true, we have over 41%, and I'd like it to be 40%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3175	Thank you. I am concluding a joint national search on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Taxes, which was submitted by the Government and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, which was submitted by the Government. The amendments the MPs have made will be discussed within 24 hours of this moment, which is 14 hours and 15 minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic called, and then I set a lunch break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3176	I thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me to comply with Articles 100 and 104. The Rules of Procedure, for the public and present minister, from whom I request attention, deny a few of the information you have provided. (Many MPs come out of the O.R.) I don't dispute the law. What? (Dragan Todorovic, a raider from the scene: Please warn the chairman of what is happening now. You've seen it, it also applies to the minister. Look how your MPs behave about your debate. Look at this stampede. Now, that's what's bothering you. ) I don't mind that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3179	I don't mind that. We are talking today about the most important law which, in fact, represents the goal of imposing ourselves in a political struggle to tell the people that we will lead the state and that we will have the means. I personally do not mind either selective reporting or the way the media informs the public about budget remarks, but I do mind the minister's selective answer to questions. I'll try to be the shortest and most argumentative. The people are primarily interested in work, as opposition MPs have said, how much in the budget we have the opportunity to do, those who have not yet fired, or what our salaries will be. The remark you've been answering, Mr. Minister, is not an objection from the MPs. The observation that salaries are high and that conditions can, according to the viewing system, increase the general level of wages, so that investors do not come to us, is published in this book – the White Paper on Direct Investments and Foreign Investments. In short remarks on what we as MPs have a long list of objections, from corruption, laws, etc., the largest number of complaints from these investors refers precisely to the Labour Act. This refers to the over-censored Labour Act that we dare to seek a warm meal, an annual vacation, a safe workplace and the like. So it's not an objection from the MPs that the salaries are high. It's an objection to those who would invest here as in the countries of Southeast Asia and threaten us with the following words. The announcement of the withdrawal of investors from Romania, Poland, Central and Western Europe will follow precisely because of increased labour costs, you translate 'increased salaries', it is because workers want a high standard, so as a country that expects to join the European Union, they advise us to keep as low a salary level as possible to be attractive to those and such countries, who want to invest here and to have their lowest investment cost be paid. We did not make this remark to you, and you responded to them. What I find most false, I have no other word, is that we don't understand, that you don't actually have a deficit, because it's covered by privatisation revenues. First, the privatisation revenues, which are falsely or systematically possible for you to call privatisation revenues foreign direct investment, amounted to 4 billion euros in 2006, of which 3.2 is the sale of enterprises. Only 0.8, what we call greenfield investments. So the sale of the common inheritance is 4 billion. You're telling us now that we don't have a deficit of 13 billion, because we've spent about a billion on it somewhere. Citizens of Serbia, we all have the right to inherit this country, which is 4 billion in 2006 alone, i.e. a net income of 3.2 billion. You know what the problem is? That money was deposited with the National Bank in a foreign exchange account. For this money, they tell you that they are foreign reserves and they are increased, so on the basis of that same money they print bonds, or securities of value, so they say we paid off the pension debt, and on the basis of that same money they say - we finance the National Investment Plan. Just a little bit more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3180	Watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3181	I have to finish this, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3182	Yes, go ahead, finish up. Just to tell you, you've been talking for five minutes. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, and you can finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3183	For economists and all those who know what it means and for those who don't know, I'll say it. You on the basis of one exchange, one currency, one bill – you can't show the value three times. It's called a money show -- whether it's direct or hidden. You can't expect us to swallow your argument, that on the basis of these, called direct investment, it's not but sales of capital, sale of property, cover and lose and invest, and the biggest problem is that you claim – it's legal. It is not legal for you to share in the regulation and by law incentive funds, for example, to the firm 'Calcedonija', which is not a company from here, just registering representation and giving 2000 euros per job. It is not legal to regulate the criteria for the distribution of funds from joint couples, to give selectively and to sell common assets. I believe your word that it is difficult for you that 16 billion dinars are not shown to you, a debt, for the Republic Health Institute. That's an amazing fact. I thank you for your honesty. All 2006 and half of 2007 health obligations were not presented. That means the story about the surplus was a fake, that we have distorted performance and cost data. It's a devastating fact for you as a coalition partner, and for us as citizens it's called damage, it's called theft, it's called evasion, it's called cover-up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3184	I warn Mrs Tabakovic that her time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3185	I just want to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3186	Just one more sentence and we'll finish the debate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3187	With regard to balancing, domestic and import production burdens, you only mentioned juices and non-alcoholic beverages, and you did not say that I made an observation that you freed kerosene taxes for planes, and introduced a new tax return, whatever you call it, on a car-gas that poor people don't pollute, and drove a taxi to feed their family.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3189	Why don't you say that the market, I'm really uncomfortable, one more sentence to conclude about a big Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3190	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3191	That this same large Europe, on whose market we want to appear and which works in the interests of the people and the future, has developed such perfided systems with its method of subsidy and control, I am just one frustrating example from the European Union and the World Trade Organisation, which is next. All US producers of non-alcoholic beverages and canned products ignore the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the World Trade Organisation to reduce the amount of sugar and salt in their products, despite the dramatic and proven growth of obesity on the planet. Not only that, it's caused by an increase in the number of diseases and diabetic and coronary. That's what they think about health, that's what they think about the financial future, and that's what we need to worry about here, respecting ourselves and bringing out the facts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3192	Thank you. Here you go. I think it's correct to allow the minister to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3193	Just one minute. I don't want to talk about everything. I just wanted to say about this macro-question, about these four billion etc. When it comes to greenfield investments, the budget has nothing to do with it. So, the Greenfield investments are part of where some stranger comes and invests in his company and we record them as a foreign exchange inflow, to see that the state has received foreign exchanges, but that has nothing to do with the budget. That part about privatisation, it stays in the budget, and that's where you're right. Now that you look at, if the deficit is used, or if these funds are used to service the deficit and if the deficit is created as a result of capital investment, means, going back to something that will remain in our infrastructure, then it's practically not throwing family silver out the window, but rather, converting from one form to another. From a form called – production activity that the state will no longer deal with, but hand over to privates in infrastructure, where private capital is not so interested in entering, which we necessarily need.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3194	I'm setting a break and we'll continue at 15 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 7th and 8th points of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE CITIZER AND THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on proposals for decisions from the agenda under points 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 160(3) and Article 94, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the selection of the Citizens' Protectors, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Public Information, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gavrilović, president of the Committee on Culture and Information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3196	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, Article 5. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the National Assembly is choosing the authority responsible for monitoring and exercising citizens' right to notification. Article 1(2) The law on free access to information of public importance has established a trustee for information of public importance. Article 30(1) The law on free access to information of public importance is prescribed for the trustee to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for information, and for Article 5. The law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance has regulated the duration of the trustee's term in case of re-election of the same person. The Committee on Culture and Information at a session held on 14 June 2007 established a proposal to re-elected Rodoljub Sabic as the trustee. The Committee believes that Rodoljub Sabic has performed the role of the Commissioner for Public Information professionally and responsibly, showing a high degree of independence and independence in work. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly make this decision on the election of Rodoljub Sabic as a trustee. I'd like a few more notes, too. I would especially draw attention to the fact that as well as the Committee on Culture and Information, and also the Trustee, we will seek to remove several illogicalities that we have so far. I mean, first of all, the archival structure and the documents that are now unreachable to our researchers, scientific workers, and even interested citizens, say from the age before and after World War II, even though the years in which a certain secret was protected are still not available to our researchers. We must strive, as this home does, but also as a public in general to make such things really right. Another example that applies, because why can't we see today how Milos Crnjanski spent his days in London, what was the attitude of the state or those who eventually protected him or followed him in a certain way or what Ivo Andric was doing in Vienna as our diplomat. As with other examples relating to the possibility of younger ones rehabilitating their fathers or grandfathers, they cannot today come up with documents in certain archives that are closed. As a result, the trustee will also have our Committee, and I hope from the Assembly, full support that these archive documents and such buildings be made available to all interested citizens, especially scientific researchers and our institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3197	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3198	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would at the shortest explain why we will also support Mr. Sabic's proposal and why we will support Mr. Jankovic's proposal for the Ombudsman. We think that these are issues that must be more agreeable than the usual policy that follows our daily work. It would be better if the proposed law established a larger majority of the classical rulings needed to support the usual legislative proposals, decisions and initiatives we face here in Parliament. We want to facilitate the position of both the Ombudsman and the public information trustee and thus contribute to the normalisation of general public life in Serbia. Of course, as an opposition party, we keep our opposition profile, but on this point we do not want to act as a classical opposition, but rather to give the hand of co-operation not to the ruling majority but to the people who need our support to experience Serbia's willingness to build on them positions that are not as politicised as our party. Unfortunately, Serbia is such a society that both Mr. Shabic and Mr. Jankovic will have a lot of work to do in it and as an Ombudsman and as a Commissioner for Public Information will face initiatives that we will also launch, and this support primarily represents an expression of our willingness to solve issues and problems inherited from the traumatised past that burdens our daily life. So this is not an expression of our support to the ruling majority, this is an expression of our support to the institutions that contribute, we believe, to normalisation of social life in the country and at the same time this support obliges the ruling majority candidates to a different attitude towards their business than that which is characteristic of other state-owned operators. They must not be government ombudsmen and government trustees, they must be people who will take care of citizens' interests and we give them that kind of trust in advance and I hope we don't make a mistake, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3199	We would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS is MP Zoran Krasic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I'd like to inform you that because of the efficiency of the work, we're going to continue after 18.00 hours with a dot that's 18.00 hours on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3200	First, let me clarify one dilemma for all present MPs, of course you will also tell absent deputies, but also for our public what it is that binding tissue is between two laws, or two decisions, the choice of citizens' protectors and the choice of trustees. It's two completely separate subjects. In principle, they belong to a large area called the protection of human rights, but if we go by that logic, then all the other technical regulations today are related to the protection of human rights. But it's not a connective tissue here, and it's not that generic that exists between them, what the connective tissue is either in the context of this decision, or to be more precise in working biographies and the data we've received about these candidates. In addition to a few common terms and words I use as an example, both are graduate lawyers. The second moment that binds them is the OSCE. Both candidates for both of these functions are in close contact with the OSCE. When we talk about the OSCE, we can talk in principle about some good parties when it wasn't the OSCE but the KEBS, but if we are to represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly, then we must say that the word OSCE has a negative calling. They've been to our house several times. Just to remind you, since you were not informed, so as observers in early 1999, they left complete logistics that they transferred from Vienna to Kosovo and Metohija's territory to terrorists. If you don't believe me to remind you, there's still a big dispute going on in front of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, as far as Walker's jeep is concerned. It's that armored jeep that was taken away in 2001, kidnapped violently, there are copies from that authority that were proud of it. I'm talking about executives at the time, not the Assembly. I suppose in these few years you've realized when I'm criticizing the ruling set, I never do it to the MPs, because I'm absolutely sure you don't have full knowledge of what's going on in the government represented by some of your party comrades. We've got three copies here that excavated when they took away the jeep, the violent hijacking of the jeep. For your sake, I'm telling you that it was a blinded jeep used by William Walker, and just before NATO aggression was due, he left 40 such jeeps to terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, including Thaci and 2001, the removal of that jeep was to remove evidence of the OSCE's kind of coalition co-operation as a European institution that was in charge of watching there, to see if armed conflicts were happening, which is causing armed conflicts, which provokes etc. Then they staged a scene called Racak, which later triggered everything and everything. Now, if these candidates are coming to this OSCE for a warm co-operation, then I have to ask all of us who we choose. The OSCE is an organisation that deals primarily with security, and the citizen's protector has no task of taking care of security but of protecting human rights. It's a completely different matter. If he had been close, let's say, to the Council of Europe as the original institution, since 1950, this Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been adopted, I would have understood that, because it is originally prone to human rights. The Council of Europe, however, has three functions by its definition, is working to develop democracy, protect human rights and promote the rule of law in Europe. Yes, when their representatives come to Serbia, you can forget it because when they perform here, when they talk, they demonstrate the absolute ignorance of these areas and I will not comment on them. Just to remind you, the sixth time before the Serbian Supreme Court is the SRS lawsuit, because five times the court has decided to give us back that jeep. There are no more judges working at the Supreme Court Administrative Dispute Council who have not already been involved in this case called 'jip'. We've got it everywhere. Here, sixth or seventh time, no, again. I did this for some who don't know what the OSCE is and are looking for an interpretation of whether the OSCE should interpret here in a positive or negative context. In the case of Serbia, the Serbian people, the word OSCE has a very negative context. A very negative context. I must draw attention to the fact that there is no better situation with the Council of Europe, but since this is a singing society probably doesn't deserve such criticism, we must all consider and think and find an answer to the question that it is possible for the UN tribunal to find a different factual situation in the judicial rulings than in the reports of various committees, commissions, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and these reports have initiated procedures in The Hague. So, these European associations that you're seeking don't interpret as a dogma. Then you make a big mistake at the start, so I had a chance to notice an association and an insinuation that looked like a mistake. Helping the OSCE, an OSCE chicken, cannot be interpreted positively in Serbia. It has to be interpreted negatively, if it's about the candidate you've proposed as Protector of the Citizens. If this candidate is elected, I would recommend you not to choose him, but you have a majority, so decide what you will and how you will do. It's probably some multiparty deal for those who have the capacity to make a coalition with everyone. It's known that when a person has such capacity that they can do with anyone, then we have in our jargon, it's the oldest profession. Okay, lanterns and lamps, we'll leave that for a second chance. I'd say I'd vote for Protector, for the candidate you're proposing for the Guardians of Citizens, but the moment he gained confidence that he would go backwards. Now you're going to tell me – how is that backwards? To control what happened to human rights yesterday, the day before yesterday, until the day the law was passed. Just to remind you, the Protector of the citizens really isn't in charge of the cases before the Civil Protection Act is passed. You see, you were afraid that I said it backwards, so it would go all the way to 1945. No, just until the date of adoption of this Act. But he won't. No, he's got a major blockade. The first blockade, which he had in six months this year, as long as there had to be an organ, if you chose it, it would spend about 24 million dinars this year, is so planned in the budget, which is the first point. According to the Civil Protection Act, we have one protector and four deputies. There are four deputies in the area. One protector will be in charge of prisons, the idea isn't bad. Better let some of them control the prisons than Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Licht and others. To remind you that 1,200, let it be, Petar Jojic knows these data very precisely, terrorists released from prison. There were three laws on amnesty. There are examples who insisted on it, but the examples did not insist on protecting human rights, but because someone had turned their hands from abroad, so the act of letting terrorists should have been a form of recognition of our guilt. That's what this is about. We at the Guardian of Citizens have a candidate who knows more about sports than human rights. That shows his work résumé. Where does he come from? It's coming from a mile. What does that environment remind you of? Reminds me of arson in the Federal Assembly. How can a man who, by his soul, belongs to the arsonists be a human rights fighter? Explain that to me, please. It means eventually, that it certainly goes selectively into considering what human rights are. Probably selective. I think there is a lady in a parliamentary group who was deputy to Rasim Ljajic in terms of the protection of human rights. Do you know what kind of human rights fighters we have? We have those media ones, who are able, and they're better than Boris Tadic, that 16 sentences without interruption say so. They twist standards, Article 5, Article 6, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, memorized by memory, and the public should create the impression that they are consistent human rights fighters. However, their struggle for human rights is interrupted as soon as they receive a concrete item. When they get a specific object then there goes background examination, what is, how is, why is it. Who's fighting for human rights? Two hundred fifty of the people's messengers. It is the first obligation, to respect the Constitution and to fight for human rights. Who's still fighting for human rights? All the courts. They have to. Based on their independence, independence and commitment to the Constitution, the law must protect human rights, the real interests of all those who are considered endangered. We also have a special court of human rights protection, the possibility of addressing the European Court of Human Rights. Under certain conditions, petitions and so forth. Who else is fighting for human rights? The D.A.'s office has to do it because he's a civil servant. Who else do we have among human rights fighters? We have on page 13 of the Budget Act, I'm looking for him here, because I can't find him anywhere else. Why can't I find it? Because there is no material regulation. I must tell you that I do not treat the regulation with a material regulation, this is what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia taught me when it was assessing the legality, and the god and constitutionality of certain Regulations of the Government of Zoran Djindjic, starting with the ones on oil derivatives, and beyond, and they were all brought on the basis of Article 2(2). The Government Act, and this Article 2nd paragraph, says - The government can adopt regulations. On the basis of that, they realized they could edit everything by regulations. It's not a conjugal, it's a government. On page 13. The Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget is within section 3, Chapter 3.8 of the Human and Minority Rights Service. They're going to spend 97.5 million dinars this year. The same takes care of human rights in another specific way. If I read you all of these positions, where there are courts and prosecutors who also have to protect human rights, then you'll get about a third of the total budget for 2007, which is directly related to human rights. Just to remind you, in Bor, peanuts are currently watering on the basis of the recommendation of the government of Zoran Djindjic – you are doing better in the production of peanuts than in the exploitation of ore. I may have been a bit of a cartoon, maybe I didn't quote well enough, but I have a quote, I keep it. Three years ago, it was said that the imports of labor were on the move. Now, explain to me, if there's been an import of labor, where do the unemployed come from, what about their right to work? What do you need from a public defender who needs to apply and obey the law, and we have the Labour Act, which is the worst on the globe of the Earth? That's the law for which one of them had to vote from Thessaloniki. The Solonac, Novakovic, I guess it was something like that. Imagine he's a Democrats too. There's always a problem with Democrats in the National Assembly. Since the building was built, the only problem is with the Democrats, DS. On whose orders, under whose pressure they have to do it, it's not clear to me. Now, you explain to me what to do, the Guardian of the Citizens when he hears from former workers or, say, when he hears 10,000 - 15,000 of what civil servants are doing in the military service, making military personnel who have been fired for the past month. After a brief procedure. I can't mistake my soul that it was the Shutanovac's fault, it happened before the godfather became the minister of defense, but it was pasture. He threw people out. Seven thousand people, civilians serving in the military with an internship for 20 or 30 years, were fired overnight, received some church, some severance. What about them to do, Protector of the Citizens? What will this very good candidate of yours do next time trying to take this position, and his name is Sasa Jankovic? So I'm not talking about the man, it's the same situation with anyone proposed by the DSS. If they had suggested that Aligrudic be the protector of the citizens, the same situation would have been. Furthermore, as the public defender will refer to the situation when, for example, the Deputy Prime Minister or this representative, and now the minister, once was the finance minister, this true example of the pit-bull terrier of the economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3201	Mr. Krasic, we agreed to treat each other with respect, ministers, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3202	Mr. Albianic, I'd only have to draw your attention to a few details. You're probably the last man in the National Assembly who can object to someone for the bad words you're interpreting as an insult, because at the time of one man's memorial, you were looking forward to blowing balloons. So you have no elemental sense of value, no elemental sense of tradition. You don't respect religion, you don't respect anything. When you warn someone of their behavior, it looks dirty. I was talking about the phenomenon of running an economic policy, a pit-bul terrier of economies – grab what you get, where you get. I don't know if I insult Mladjan Dinkic or anyone else, but if you think that in the follow-up exposure I should have problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3203	Mr. Todorovic, don't throw the speaker away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3204	Well, since time is running out, I wanted to make an introduction, for the sake of the SRS MPs, for the sake of the other parliamentary groups, to make it clear to you that these two candidates of yours cannot be supported, and of course, we will use the right to discuss, where we will point out more specifically what the lack of these proposals are going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3205	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The first person to speak was MP Dragan Todorovic, and then MP Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you misunderstood me, I apologize, the raid from the scene was just an attempt to help you explain to Mr. Krasic that the mention of pit-bull economy in your country immediately associated with Mladjan Dinkic, so I wanted to draw attention to Mr. Krasic and to say that you are not guilty...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3207	Mr. Todorovic, in the same way I tell you that we take care of how we express ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3208	To return to the subject of selecting a trustee for information. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, both you and the citizens of Serbia, I would like to remind you of some facts that, I suppose, you forgot or pushed them away. Unfortunately, since October 5, 2000, a lot of suffering and misery have hit us, so man can't really remember everything, but I don't think it's bad to remember things when it comes to DOS and political actors since 2001. I assume you all remember that Rodoljub Sabic was then elected as an MP on the DOS list from SDP Vuk Obradovic's party. After a relatively short period of time, a problem broke out in the government, then the government had seven vice presidents, if you remember, one of them was Vuk Obradovic. In view of the affair, the first turmoil has begun within DOS ranks. To remind you that then DS, since it was essentially the leader of DOS, took the mandates of Vuko Obradovic, although, under the Law on the selection of MPs, the mandate belonged to political parties whose lists were selected, as you all came in one way or another today in the position of that law which, otherwise, proposed by the SRS, but then you thought it would be the easiest way for you to manipulate the Assembly and to kidnap the mandates. Meanwhile, a new SDP of Slobodan Orlic was established within the SDP, and for the DS's award of obedience, Rodoljub Sabic was then elected state administration minister. I assume you remember all that. As things within DOS moved along, as the quarrels over the distribution of prey began, so on, there was a problem with Slobodan Orlic. I am sure Cedomir Jovanovic remembers that well and these problems with Slobodan Orlic. Even the hard words from this pay phone are moving without telling me what was going on in the halls. At that time, Rodoljub Sabic, who has acted in principle in life, held principled views, showed absolutely no gesture of his own, that he would betray those principles, from the party Slobodan Orlic became an independent MP, but remained a minister. Among other things, the complete situation with the proposal on how it works, approximately, shows Rodoljub Sabic himself, as the DOS shows. I mean the original DOS. Let me remind you of some things when it comes to the trustee of information and the ability to obtain that information and how far it is. You remember, I think it's been three, four or five days since the famous duel of Velimir Ilic, now he's the minister of infrastructure or whatever it's called, and Bojana Kostresa, president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. You remember how that happened in a TV duel. Minister Ilic pledged to give an insight into the Horgos-Pozega concession contract, in front of the whole audience, in front of Serbian citizens. Mr. Kostresh left, as the minister promised, to take a look at that contract. According to him, I can't say he's telling one or the other the truth, I'm just passing on what they both said, Kostresh said he could only get a glimpse of some material in blue or pink cover, it doesn't matter, and nothing more than that. Velimir Ilic claims he has received complete material. It's obvious, gentlemen, that someone is not telling the truth. I think that's the logical conclusion of each and every one of us that when you have one thing on the other, you have the opposite of the fact that one of them is not telling the truth. But now look, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina is in a coalition with the DS and the Serbian Movement of Forces in Vojvodina. How is it possible that DS allows their partner at the level of Vojvodina's minister in government, where they are also partners with Velimir Ilic, not allowing a view of a contract that is otherwise extremely important, which has been established in doubt that it has been concluded at the expense of the state. And you know the situation in Serbia. All contracts when they are contracted to harm the state are usually made for the benefit of an individual or a group of individuals and there is no absolute dilemma. We also asked for that contract for other reasons, not for the reasons for which Bojan Kostreš was sought, but his legitimate right, as well as any other, to seek insight into that contract, but he could not win it. I ask a logical question, how is it possible that you at different levels in the Vojvodina coalition, in the Republic, behave completely differently? How can you expect Rodoljub Sabic or any other official to do his job under the law and what he would have to do where he is, when you do not allow it within your party, or parties and coalitions where you are? How can an ordinary citizen expect to get any information from any ministry at all if you who are in coalition with the DS are unable to obtain it in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I can tell you about the experiences of the SRS, I would not want to be incorrect and to say for one single case that Rodoljub Sabic was the reason why we didn't get the information we wanted. But we haven't received much information from the Home Office, among other things, material has arrived in the meantime. We had a lot of problems when we wanted to launch certain investigations and that normally our investigations would be legally justified, or based on facts, we asked the law on the availability of information from certain ministries to make these applications either fall out or not to bear them, or to make all arguments and facts that would be important. Unfortunately, this law on the availability of information has proved to be just a dead letter on paper, fully selectively accessing these requests, what you think will not harm this is given to insight. However, all contracts that are problematic, where there is a reasonable doubt that they were concluded at the expense of the state were not available to the SRS. That's why the SRS won't vote on Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic for all of these reasons I've presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3209	Since we have received another list of speakers in front of the DS parliamentary group with delay, now for a word, since we combine against and for, as harmonised, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, was right when Mr Krasic said that in the first place human rights should be taken into account by 250 MPs of this assembly. The basic function of the Assembly is to pass laws and we have passed, this assembly has passed the Law on the Protection of Citizens and we need to apply it. In order for the law to live, we must choose the Protector of Citizens, or Ombudsman, as is already popularly spoken. The law requires one person with integrity, one person who has a professional and personal biography that qualify him for this responsibility. I'm not going to make a digression and go back to the legal provisions of the Law on the Protection of Citizens, but its basic function, sublimely and briefly, is that it is to be a defense and a barrier to the will or incompetence of the state authorities when individuals, when citizens face problems with the state administration. The second segment of his work is that legislative initiative, constitutional protection, etc., protection of the property rights of the Republic of Serbia, etc., but it is essentially the protection of the human rights corps. A professional biography of Mr. Sasa Jankovic is important, which is something that really recommends it for this very important function and the DS parliamentary group will vote for the proposed candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3211	The word has an MP, Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3212	Dear ladies and gentlemen, since the debate on the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for Public Information is united, I will say, more specifically, I will criticise Mr Sabic and the way he functions and the office, partly and at the municipal level, the local and republican level. I have three remarks I'm going to make, very briefly I'm going to try to do it. I have an example of a group of citizens who have turned to the availability of information, after all the googots they've gone through, to get information about the water supply. An authorised public information person in our municipality has submitted a request to the Commissioner for Public Information and has received an answer that, since the municipal administration does not possess such a document, it follows further to inform the Commissioner of the information of importance. Unfortunately, it would have been good if the SRS hadn't received those documents before. Which is why I'm bringing this up. Well, the physical distance between the authorised person and the municipality administration in Kraševec is five to six meters, so only three or four offices share them. Should people be sent this way to Belgrade in Germany 22-26, and the documents are next to them, is this the service of citizens or government service? The second example is also from Kruševac, where I come from, where information has been requested for the Public Enterprise of Rosulje. The questions concerned the height of the salary of the director of the Public Enterprise, Rosulje Airport. It was also from an authorised person in SO who received the answer that he does not own the municipality administration of Kruševac Municipality such a document. I'm giving you the papers. Unfortunately, that is not true, you know that council members of the municipality also adopt both the programme and the work plan, therefore, completely in the budget of Kruševac Municipality such documents exist. Which is why this is a way of working I don't know, but it's obviously a desire for people to walk from Kruševec to Belgrade and to stay without information. Thirdly, at the personal request of the municipal board in Kruševec, so when we had an affair in the Kruševac water line last year, we addressed this in order, this is very interesting, we addressed the first public company, so we also addressed the authorised person in Kruševac Municipality, so it was passed on to the Trustee and you know what it looks like now. You first ask whoever you suspect has information, he directs you to an authorized person, an authorized person to the trustee, and the trustee tells you that you can complain to him if you don't get that information. And what can you do in the end? Under the Free Access Act, you can start a administrative dispute and now you have no more problem than you have two problems. This all happened in time while Mr. Rodoljub Sabic was the Commissioner for Public Information. These are our experiences, very bad, which we have both with Mr. Shabic and with authorized faces. I understand that there is one pyramid from the top, which is the trustee, what is the authorized person in the municipality or at the local level. However, we ask whether it is possible for the law and trustee to be just one make-up so-called. democracy. Is it possible that these are orders that need to be met towards our bright path to the European Union? Is it supposed to be, when this kind of work is on a local level, what things are just happening, and that's what the predecessors just said, how hard it is to get to a document that we really need. So if there's a problem at the local level, what's the problem at the top, here in Belgrade with the trustees. We should also ask the real question whether the Information Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic has good communication with the government. Because some issues of public importance have just been denied to the public. I'll remind you that's for the highway, for the security-intelligence agency for those ski routes, etc. You have 24 exactly listed problems that are not available to the public. The problem is, too, why not hire the Commissioner or his service to have a positive influence on the choice of persons, authorized at the local level. Practically, this is how if you switch to each other's responsibility, the search engine remains denied exactly for that information, eventually. Then the real question is whether the trustee or authorized persons, at local level, are citizens' service or government service; whether they are serving citizens to get some information or whether they should serve the government to prevent any information. I'll do a very short summary. In any case, I don't think Mr. Rodoljub Savić, for the reason he's been doing this for three years, has managed to place himself as an institution, to make good communication with the government, and already the predecessors have said, the SRS will not support Rodoljub Šabic's proposal for the Trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3213	According to Article 93(3), the People's MP Srdjan Shin has the word, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3214	I'd just like to say, dear colleagues, what's important is that we actually get an ombudsman. It's happening in Kostolc today, so-called. qualification of first-class students. Imagine, then, a pedagogue asks children – do you know how many apples grow daily? Because one child, a member of Roma nationality, didn't know how many apples grow per day, she tells him – that's why you have to go to a special school. Then people need someone to complain to, someone to stand behind them, someone to cooperate with them in the exercise of rights. Because if we were to ask MPs in the congregation, I don't know how many would know how many of them would answer how many apples are growing every day. Perhaps then a large portion of the congregation would have to move to special schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3215	Excuse me, Mr. Shane, where was that assignment?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3216	In Kostolc, in Povorevc. That's what's happening today. Because that's where that qualification and that exam is being conducted today. Here, it's someone who's set up by the state. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because about 80% of special school students are just Roma children. I'll tell you, I know two things. One thing, that the state is starting to work, and the other thing means control. If we're choosing someone, it doesn't mean we're giving him a blank opportunity to do whatever he wants. But we have to have the possibility and find control mechanisms. I'm saying this precisely because the Ombudsman could help us control certain things. Next, I think it is necessary to establish co-operation between the Manuel of the Duke, the Republic of the Ombudsman and the municipal. Because it's simply the only possibility that we can create a situation where citizens don't come to the Ombudsman so they can complain, but to create conditions for the ombudsmans to get closer to the citizens and by working with their colleagues on the so-called. lower instances. By opening offices around Serbia, they will come closer to socially endangered categories, they will draw closer to farmers, they will approach citizens in rural areas and not be exclusive representatives of people in Belgrade, but will be representatives of Serbian citizens. In that sense, during this election, I want to remind myself of what we said when we passed the law, that it really has to work out the first Ombudsman to be elected at the republican level very seriously to get close to the citizens of Serbia, not just the citizens of Belgrade, that they have to come to his feet. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3217	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic came forward and then Jelena Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic's biography was presented to the MPs of the SRS and to the entire Serbian public the day the DOS came to power after the five-octobaric coup. In fact, Mr. Sabic was a party official who was an equal member of the 18-party conglomerates, and he was also a prominent official of the political organisation. It's pointless to mention it, because it doesn't exist at all. On two occasions, it was modified with the election of another president. However, he was then a prominent politician, of course earlier Broz's communist time, as he spoke to himself as a "reputable" Belgrade lawyer, with a lawyer's office in the Republic Square, who probably works under another name today, he is the State's Commissioner for Information – supported all the criminal actions and all that he was doing under the leadership of then-Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, the Democratic Party and all those who formed the government after October 5th. It hasn't been a year, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, and SRS President Vojislav Seselj is in a very clear and reasoned way, listen carefully to me, Mr Jovanovic announced to the entire public and began to publish the symbiosis of the top state government and the mafia in our country. It's a job that was very responsible, a job that should be done by the State's Information Trustee, the Citizens' Protector, above all by the Republic's Attorney General. But how could a Republic Attorney General work at the time, when he was a mobster himself. You remember his name. Oh, Mr. Gavrilovic, now perhaps forgotten, but not to me, not to the public and all the honest people who tried to ask him for justice – Rade Terzic. After that, he inherited it, in action "Sabela", right, Mrs. Radeta, a certain Ostojic from Novi Sad. Then this man, who today's Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Jankovic, found himself so confused that he went out twice to take an oath and wanted to give us a speech, and he should be working on criminal charges, primarily the SRS, and then other people in this country who want to deal with crime, corruption and the mafia. Now imagine, in such a relationship of things, in one state where it is absolutely unknown, where you should know which branch of government is doing what, the Republic Public Prosecutor, one, the other, the third, or was, Verice, some fourth between Ostojic and this Jankovic, cannot precisely remember, does not do his job and on the criminal charges of Mr Tomislav Nikolic himself. It seems to me that on 25 October 2005, he personally handed over a criminal report against the tycoon couple, otherwise very close, to Mladjan Dinkic and other representatives of the authorities, Hamovic and Lazarevic. Now that you are individual colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps for the first time in this assembly, some of you have been to the National Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, Mr Sabic, you know whether you once saw him live or not, you once told him good day and goodbye. Imagine Rodoljub Šabić, and we know him very well and who he is and what he is and what he is, not as far as law enforcement and law enforcement are concerned, that he is after these mobsters, who were taxingly listed in his books, like this one I hold in my hand, with a very interesting front page, "Stanko Subotić – Cane Zhabac, king of the tobacco mafia", wrote Dr Vojislav Seselj. This book today is something that the state authorities are dealing with. You know, you couldn't at the time, not you, you from DOS because you weren't interested, because you're MPs, what were they except Mr. Jovanovic, who, of course, was then an alpha and omega of that regime, the other MPs from all the other Dosovite parties, what could they do? People come to the session and go and what they know who's going to shoot and who's going to kill who on the street and how to liquidate, unlike Mr. Jovanovic who knew all this, of course. And of course he knew that Dr. Vojislav Seselj knew all this and later published it in his books. So Mr. Sabic had information from us and that's something to deal with the trustee, and you see how much he has to do with it. The shekel made it easy. He left five years ago voluntarily in The Hague since the indictment was written here in Belgrade by the Dosovo regime and left a treasure for state authorities and for the MUP. If it were a normal state and they weren't mobsters, and they weren't corrupt, just to start from the front to the back of this book and many others you'd come up with amazing knowledge, and then everything you couldn't find out about, and what it would be about Shabic's secret and what he wouldn't be able to talk about, when he's with himself, or when he lays down at night to sleep, or think he's chasing these mobsters, you can read in these books. You know what they say: The land of heaven swears to give up all secrets. Mr. Vojislav Seselj is because of the public and because he has never feared anyone, just like any Serbian radical who is willing to fight. We are the people who are completely free to live in this country and answer to the citizens for what they sent us here, to tell every criminal in person, or to tell them from this place that we are the people who are going to fight it all the way. Now imagine in the privatisation process of the Oil Industry of Serbia, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, Rodoljub Sabic, as he is chasing the mafia and trying to expose and whose tycoon clan, whether Tadic or Kostunica will prevail and who will kidnap the state property. Imagine Rodoljub Sabic moving one more step further, but he has been the State's Information Trustee for three years now, and is revealing the privatisation mafia. I see now that he's here to do his job seriously. In the end, he got a two-year office and he imagines he's sitting, and around him at least 300, 400 kg of paper and he's moving from one company to another, from case to case, he shows up and says, he has the right to say, that and that guy up to his throat is involved in crime and corruption, and he's close to the Democratic Party, the one with the DSS, the one with the G 17 plus. Of course, he won't do it. If he were the real Commissioner for Information, he would have told us by now everything that we have, as a political party and our president, brought to the public, and he had to come to that knowledge by official duty. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, even though Mr Krasic spoke of it, that the case of the jeep that was taken during the whole tactical trick, to call it, was designed by Mr Jovanovic here in the Assembly, from this second row here, something to deal with both the final and judicial and the competent state authorities. As a member of the Defence and Security Committee, I have asked at least six or seven times this old minister, Dragan Jocic, on the basis of the rulings of the Supreme Court owned by the Serbian Radical Party, when property, i.e. the jeep of the Serbian Radical Party, was returned to us in front of the presidency building at the moment the former president of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, was kidnapped from Dedinj. Not only that, but if Mr. Sabic had done his job and on those criminal charges that we had against individuals, he would have evicted so far, why Serbia's radical party and Dr. Vojislav Seselj have not been paid a public reward of 900 thousand marks. If the state authorities were unable to do their jobs then, as neither will they, nor will Jocic, in the right sense, say he is after criminals, nor will this Jankovic do his job. So how is it possible, then, that, how many years has it been, four or five years, to keep quiet in front of the fact that one man was able to expose everything that other state bodies didn't. Mr. Stanimirovic, I see that you listen very carefully to me and I know, since I sold you three or four books. First you bought one copy, then you asked me for more, more, like all of you who were DOS MPs at the time. Only Mr. Jovanovic didn't want it, he probably didn't have any change, but he knows it all, and it doesn't matter. He knows what he'll do. Anyway, I sold the most books to you sitting on the Dossov side. I can see that you're following me closely, because you all know what it says here, and I'm counting on you reading everything from cover to cover from these books. The problem is that their work is not done by the state authorities. Now imagine this Ombudsman, or Protector of the Citizens. He's the only one who can do a lot more by law. If Shabic says - right, Meho, you know him best, you're former and party friends, and I can't go, knock and ask, and they don't give me information and this patron of citizens can do a lot of things. Its powers are great and it is before the competent state authorities to initiate proceedings against those employed in public enterprises, state authorities and administration bodies. He's the one who can start a trial before the Constitutional Court. What's the matter with you, Mr. Albian, why do you whistle all the time? It's you, Mr. Beard, and you can't concentrate on me, but it's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3219	I'm not distracting you, I'm trying to help you get the MPs to hear, because it's pretty loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3220	Thank you, colleague, it's really okay and colleagues are extremely patient and listen carefully. And what they're doing and what they're reacting is because they're aware that all of this information that I'm presenting is correct. I think we're going to have to do a reprint of these editions, so you can get that you who don't have those books to read them carefully. These are the original writings of the people who dared at the time, though anonymous, that unlike both Shabic and this Jankovic, whom you will choose, their authority and integrity in the service in which they worked, they invest to obtain material that will present to the public through the president of our party. The question arises whether you really believe, and you will vote and advocate a society in which human freedoms, human rights and citizens, rights of workers and children's rights are respected, do you really believe that Shabic and this candidate of yours for the Protector of Citizens will have, what would our people say, the loop and the heart and the courage to face a mob that one of you may not individually know about? I repeat and say again, you are the people who represent these political parties, whose peaks are closely linked to criminals and the mafia. Like when we say, "Albianic, he's surprised at all these robberies and the thefts of Mladjan Dinkic and G 17, well, whoever's talking to you, you didn't steal anything, but yours and yours lie with their shoulders." So are you. And maybe it's strange for you at this point, but be sure, as after many years, some at the time it was strange, it turns out that all of these references from this book are correct, and that's what the state authorities are dealing with now. There'll be more benches turning in the next few days, and you'll be sure of that. Anything else is gonna happen. So make sure that all arguments at the disposal of the Serbian Radical Party are much better and authentic in any case, unlike what these people who are legally and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are now elected. I think the only way, given that the choice of the Citizens' Protector is, and by that personal solution, I can't even speak now, because some things in the biography are interesting and that will probably later Serbian colleagues have been doing commentary, I think this is a whole farce and that Rodoljub Sabic, who you changed the law for the other day, will have his term of office for seven years to crack by breaking down his term in some office with his morning coffee shop and reading daily newspapers, and with the arrival of information that will mean something to him or not, until the end of his term. And citizens will remain by state authorities denied information for their rights. However, be assured that we will continue this path that has begun to expose all the mafia affairs of our president in 2000 and that we will be ready and that this assembly speaker is the place from which we will present all our knowledge, in order to encourage the people we call today to provide us with the documentation that we will publish and which we will waste, and that is our goal and obligation to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3221	The word has a folk MP Jelena Markovic, then Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3222	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I agree that it is our job to encourage citizens, above all, to believe in institutions, because no kind of self-organization and no legal certainty, or any legal certainty, is impossible without the existence of stable institutions. That is why it is bad if we send them a message that two new institutions that are intended for them, if we immediately start assuming that these institutions are pointless, there is no reason to exist and that they will not see any benefit from them. I cannot agree with you that it has proved that many of the institutions that we have established in our best interest so far have had no support in the executive government, have failed to accomplish their task which is why they are founded and therefore a large number of citizens, as well as us who are fighting for the credibility of the institutions, feel disappointed. It is also true that citizens feel mistrust and disappointment in the MPs themselves, but that does not mean that we should end Parliament. The institution of the Protector of the Citizens and the Information Trustees institutions is also established in the interest of protecting the citizens themselves. I would talk more about the Ombudsman himself, for the reason that we have given the law really great powers, and in this sense, I want to send two messages to him as a future, I don't know if he will be, whether we will choose him, but whoever, to that future Ombudsman, and also to the executive authority itself. So every ombudsman, in every country, and there are almost every country, draws his power out of his courage and integrity and credibility, and we expect him to be impartial and to respect the letter of the law, which states that no one has the right to influence his work. Is he close to any political party, who has officially proposed it or not, from the moment this assembly proposes it, it must be irrelevant, although I may sound like a utopian, because it must become the protector of all citizens, regardless of what their political commitment is, or which group it belongs to. So we expect him to respect the law and have high moral credibility. Secondly, he's given a very big opportunity, which is that he's looking for a shift of officials, he's running disciplinary procedures and things like that. This involves one enormous personal courage to face the public administration, all resistances and possible consequences, and that ombdusman must be aware and decide whether he will be the protector of citizens or administration. We choose him with the intention of protecting the citizens and uncompromisingly revealing all the truths that he has come to. In this sense, I do not expect the ombdusman, according to the law, to submit a report to the Assembly only formally at the end of the year, in which he will taxively list how many complaints there have been of citizens, but to inform us, all of us parliamentarians that indeed every state institution is functioning, where there are obstructions, where there are serious violations of the law, and that we parliamentarians are not, as we tend to complain, a flow water heater, but that we have the opportunity to influence an executive authority that does not work well, and we are potentially affecting some irregularities that we do not know about. There was talk about when we changed the law that there was one inflation of the ombudusman. We've got local ombudsmen, we've got ombudsman hospitals, we've got ombudsman provinces, school halls, and I don't know which ones. What I think is the obligation of the Ombudsman is that they do not function as special states, but to coordinate with each other, so that citizens in the network of institutions do not lose both their injuries and their complaints and their accidents they face. Also, it is his obligation to follow the implementation of the law, and we have agreed here that all laws are valid for us more or less, but that there is no implementation of them anywhere, and I expect that this duty will be fulfilled, as I expect him to be given that possibility, and that is a great opportunity, and that is legislative activity, that he will take advantage of, given... (The Faith of Radet, from the place: "What would be the name of the woman of the ombudsman?" I don't know, I'm not the best representative for that new language, I'm not me, I'm an MP. So, I expect she's really working on legislative activity. Some have done a great job before him and made it easier for him in the sense that there is a list of laws that are discriminatory, as well as laws that must be passed and that he will do so. What I would agree with Mr. Shain, it is necessary that this institution, namely to be present on the ground, should citizens, regardless of the possibility of free legal protection, rarely decide to come to Belgrade, pass the entire network of administrations, to file their appeal, rather than have opportunities in the local environments and in the most remote parts of Serbia to file their complaints. Also, we expect from its intended six months to set up its deputies to deal with the rights of persons deprived of liberty, i.e. what is happening in prisons, women's problems or gender equality, child rights, national minorities and people with disabilities. Of course, it will expand its activity, unbound by these four, and deal with all the things that appear in public today as a serious violation of rights. So, at this point, I don't want to say that it's ideal, that the situation in Serbia will be ideal when we get the Ombudsman, that all citizens will be happy, but I want to give them a dose of optimism that they will have free protection, that they will have one form of control of the executive authority, and whether it will actually succeed in doing it or we will be disappointed to talk about it again in a month, will depend on the executive authority on which it is a great responsibility and on all of us who are obliged to control them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3223	Thank you. First, the replica, MP Zoran Krasic, and Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3224	Mr. Obradovic, the replica is of principle nature, at the beginning of the presentation my predecessor mentioned, yes, said disabling and in some ways challenging very important institutions to which support should be given at this time. The position of the SRS is not to disabling these two institutions. It was from our opening statements, or it couldn't be concluded. However, we are in strategic advantage over other parliamentary groups. Why? Because there's some experience. What does that mean when it's written on paper in practice? I wouldn't add or take anything from my predecessor, I like it all, but I just have to get back to the agenda point, it's not a proposal for a law on the Protector of Citizens, it's a decision to choose the Guardian of Citizens. How can we fit the proposed candidate into this charity story we just heard? I am now simply quoting some of the things that the candidate said about himself: he graduated from law school in 1996, direction – administrative law; in 2005 he was able to attend General Delic in training, since General Delic is in the rank of a doctor of science. As far as working experience goes from 1994 to 1997, the Beta news agency reporter and probably has some touch points with the information. From 1997 to 2000, an expert associate at the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia. From 2000 to 2001, the secretary of the Federal Ministry of Sports, we are talking about the human rights of athletes. Furthermore, from 2001 to 2002, an assistant for general affairs was then the Federal Secretariat for Sports and Youth. Since 2003, in November, it means, after those elections, you remember, to date he is a national legal adviser to the OSCE Democratisation Department in Serbia. Please, the first association of national legal advisors in the Department of Democratisation of the OSCE Mission. Democracy in an organisation that deals with security and co-operation can be interpreted just as Mr. Todorovic has been commenting on. So this isn't a biography for secret agent 007. This is a real biography. The man wrote it himself, signed it, brought some information here about the rich knowledge of foreign languages. I'd understand you're choosing a candidate for Inspector GINU in the army. I'd understand if the head of security of the National Assembly were to be elected... (President: Time.) ) I would understand that this is where a construction expert is chosen to study the Marshallat building, which is to be destroyed, because there is to be a new American embassy to control all the underground cables passing there for telecommunications in Serbia. He meets those conditions. Probably the only condition that meets the location, the location where he's doing his job is Santa's, since that mission is there. And that's how I get in there some time, and I film it, and I see who goes in there. There's a lot of spies, you know. Why would someone on the OSCE mission go with good intentions from the NGO sector? You know, he's going for his opinion and he's going for his money. Just one more sentence, Mr. Obradovic, the problem is now that these foreigners are poor too, so now they can no longer pay them off, but they say, take them into the service of the state, you are the government. Now, you, with the money of the Serbian citizens, fund our spies. It's this revolutionary change since October 5th. You know, who's in the positions of the democratic bloc, he has no idea what human rights are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3225	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3226	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic, explaining why MPs from the SRS cannot propose one of the candidates for independent institutions that we should choose during this session, as well as speaking about candidate Rodoljub Sabic, she said that I know very well who this gentleman is. The truth is that Miss Natasa Jovanovic said, I know very well who Rodoljub Sabic is. Rodoljub Sabic is an experienced lawyer, a respected lawyer, an honest and honest man. However, I am not the one who should judge the candidate for the Commissioner. I think the best rating for his work so far has given the whole public in Serbia, Serbian citizens, the NGO and all those who care about both the truth and the fact that this important institution, newly established, is what the Commissioner for the availability of information of public importance, is finally living in the state of Serbia. We also see from what we hear in the debate by opposition parties, even though it is only one opposition party, how difficult it is for one such independent institution to suffer in Serbia. But what really amazes me, which is how from the representatives of the opposition parties we are experiencing criticism from one of the institutions that in the past few months, well, for God's sakes and for more than two years, has been trying to from the ruling coalition, from government institutions, from ministers, directors and all those headed by the executive authorities, to get information for the sake of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, we, the MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should do everything possible for both this institution and the Ombudsman institution to live to the fullest extent in order for the citizens of Serbia who have given us confidence to have final institutions that they can trust, have finally institutions that can address for help and that finally the representatives of the government, which we have chosen, because we are making a ruling coalition proposed by two respected colleagues, have control not only of us but also of these representatives who will make up independent institutions. I think and I am convinced that all MPs of the ruling coalition will, with their work and their critical relationship, check what they are and how they are doing in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in all institutions, help not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also these newly established institutions. I am therefore looking forward to the fact that a good part of the opposition parties' MPs understands the importance of independent institutions and gives support to today's proposed candidates. I'm sure we'll meet what the citizens expect us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3227	Replication to the presentation, MP Zoran Krasic. You called the opposition, so Mr Krasic is considered to be called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3228	Just let me have the power. Okay, I know it's hard to collect this current. Mr. Obradovic, not that I recognized myself or that I recognized the SRS as an opposition, but that we are the only opposition to this item of the agenda that has so far been heard. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Meho, if our attitudes differ, then it's only in the field of attitudes. That's where we understand each other. What concerns me is something about a reasonable conclusion. Mr. Sabic's biggest asset, according to Meji Omerovic, is that Mr. Sabic has proved himself to be so well-proposed for this function that the ruling coalition against which he has worked and which he has criticised. That would be roughly, I'm in power, so I've made my own way of the opposition, so since the opposition is me, I support her. Why would Vojislav Kostunica be against Rodoljub Sabic? Find me one reason. All has succeeded in keeping Rodoljub Sabic from the public and that very part that corresponds to Vojislav Kostunica. Do you want proof of that? The evidence itself is the institutional impotence of the trustee. A trustee as an institution doesn't have that power. He can make the most of one public statement and say, they've made me very angry. You remember he didn't have an office for six months. Of course, he lost his working relationship, he fell morally for some other things after changing parties. He left the party, kept his mandate, stayed in the assembly, was a minister. When she said the ship was falling, he turned the turkey, he was against that said ship. It's his moral trait. I remember a lot of things, but just to remind Mecca, just to remind him, he had amnesia. He knows Meho, he left Zivkovic, he'll leave everything when it's thick. In that fact, running and leaving reminds me quite a lot of those who defend him. Those who defend Rodoljub Sabic have the same tendency, one party – fusion, two parties, then fusion, then the third party, then abandonment, then the government's overthrow here, then faster within one block. Now we see a man in a completely different block but he's only in the Assembly. Someone would only like to be in the Assembly, so no matter what political party. Rodoljub Sabic would like to be on state mangers, so no matter what function. It's that society from SIV, the Federal Executive Council: Hrustanovic, Rodoljub Sabić, Nenadićka and that society, about that, are all Latin's staff, Stambolics, dissatisfied with the 8th session, found the DS and what is gravitating the Democratic Centre, and to bring it down to that jargon that everyone understands, it's not communists, it's 'communics'.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3229	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and is followed by the word Marija Milisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3230	Here, from this exhibition we could hear from earlier on what kind of trouble Mr. Rodoljub Shabic will be. We all know that, not only are these technical aids and resources a problem. I'll best prove it to you and try to show you what his communication with, say, one state body will look like, on one occasion, when he comes as a trustee for information to look for information. Asked the kids at the kindergarten on the TV show "Kefalica" what the president should look like. And so from child to child, one child says that he listens in class and doesn't talk nonsense. Boris Tadic apparently did not listen in class, and most often told nonsense. Imagine Shabic getting information from that. That's impossible, Mr. Meso.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3231	The word has the People's MP Marija Milisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today, as you can see, we have on the agenda proposals for candidates for the Protector of Citizens and Commissioners for Information of Public Matter. Although it is already the third in a row of extraordinary meetings, which should have been carried out as said in Article 5. Constitutional law is still under way during the first session, right after the government's election. Next, Article 5. The constitutional law says that at the first meeting after the elections, the government should elect the governor of the NBS and the authorities of the state audit institution, and as far as we can see in the material of the candidate's proposals for these functions, we do not have so far. The question arises whether you make and pass laws in accordance with the proposed candidates, so when these candidates are gone or when you can't agree on a person who would perform that function, nothing. They waited for Serbian citizens for four months for the government and can wait a little longer for those authorities to be elected. The debate on amendments and amendments to the Law on free access to information of public importance led to controversy, even the MPs of the SRS submitted an amendment to Article 5. A law relating to the duration of the term of office of the Commissioner for Public Information, which reads - if the same person is re-elected as the trustee or deputy trustee, before his term expires, then his term ends after seven years. Then we have Mr. Rodoljub Sabic as our trustee. Just to remind you, he used to be a party figure, he was an MP in the National Assembly, then he was vice president of the National Assembly, and then he was Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. That comes from his work résumé. He is now an outsider, probably under the legal conditions, and has been doing the same job since 22 December 2004. I think the citizens of Serbia themselves can conclude who was going to change the law in favour, meaning the extension of the term of office. As for the candidate for the Protector of Citizens, you have also changed the provisions of the law in terms of membership in political once-in-a-lifetime organisations, and now to the parties, and then by accident you choose Mr. Sasu Jankovic as a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, who is otherwise a member of the NGO. From everything exposed, both laws are tailored to candidates, certain human resources solutions. As for the professional qualification of candidates, I have read their work biographies very carefully and will not doubt their qualifications. My doubts will go the other way. The SRS MPs will vote against the proposed candidates. We, as well as the citizens of Serbia, are only left to hope that the proposed candidates will do their job safely and in accordance with the law, and we just want to remind them that the National Assembly can call them to account at any time, because by law they have the right and the duty to control their work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3233	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3234	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in all democratic and developed countries, it is governed by the constitution and the law, that there should be as we say ombudsman, and now let's say that the Guardian is a citizen and I think it's a democratic act that should exist in our country. But I wonder, in our country, when we don't have basic institutions like the Constitutional Court, such as the Supreme Court and the Cassation Court, we don't have the most institutions in our country, and we want to appoint an Ombudsman. I agree that it should be the Guardian of Citizens, but most importantly, the biggest institutions in the country we don't have. If he finds out that he has to deal with some irregularities as the protector of the citizens, I wonder who he'll complain to in our country because we don't have a Constitutional Court, we don't have a cassation court, and these are the highest peaks of the judicial authorities where he should solve something if someone's unhappy. By passing laws in our country where an ombudsman or the Protector of Citizens is to be appointed, the citizens' protector should be a moral man with the highest ethics and morals, who will not be biased by political basis, but will be reconstructed and set aside for the rights of the citizens of our democratic Serbia. If someone wants to be competent in this country because they have gained great confidence in citizens, that trust must be implemented in all areas that will be useful to citizens, not political parties or employers. It's hard today in our country to be an ombudsman or a Protector of Citizens. We all know what the situation is, but let's just say we hope it gets better. I will point out that individuals in our country may not have wanted to, we had the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, since I am Roma, so I am informed of what is happening here and around the world, as president of Roma Serbia and vice president of the World Organisation of Roma, but today I have not been informed that something is happening in Kostolic about children, as some here have said. Otherwise, if that were the case, I think I'd be the first to win in this country, because I'm the most massive man in this country who has a lot of confidence from the Roma people and I belong to the biggest political party in the country that many Roma trust and vote for it. I say, we had the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and it happened that some Roma from the old airport at Tosha's well were moved in a brutal way, which our country doesn't do, which wasn't happening to us, but foreign customers came in and invested as they invested and then there's no more civil rights, there's nothing, everything has to be cleared up to build some factories here. They were moved to the park outside the Assembly and there were peaceful demonstrations. We visited them, a delegation saw the situation and asked for the reception of us by the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Mr Rasim Ljajic. Rasim Ljajic received us and said, confirmed that it was wrong, but he said – sorry, I can't do anything, these up there have no such attitude. I totally understood, we were as long as we were, turned around and left. That's right. That's right. That's right. The Nautilus must be independent and solve the problems of citizens who are right and carry out the implementation, to be competent for the rights of citizens. I hope that all people who gain confidence should carry out all acts in the areas for which they have been entrusted, which is a great gain of trust today from the highest home in our Serbia, and it is called the National Assembly. I'm sure I'll vote for Mr. Sabic the way my party votes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3235	National MP Srdjan Shine, a replica relating to information from Kostolac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3236	Mr. Damjanovic, just enough to get the information right. Go to Kostolac, look for Melissa Jemaili. Among other things, a question has been asked to this little girl, who is seven years old and needs to go to first class – do you know what glass is made of? The apple was just one question, and the other question was do you know what glass was made of? Apropo who is a member of what, there is an International Roma organization, which is an NGO that was formed 30, 40 years ago, formed by individuals and, of course, as individuals there. However, there is a European Roma Forum, as the advisory body of the Council of Europe and as the only democratically elected legitimate body in Europe, made up of both representatives of Serbia and representatives of other countries. And you know what party all the representatives are from? From the Roma Party. Just so we know who's informed and who belongs to what. I don't think it's by any chance that both representatives at the European Roma Forum are from the Roma Party, because we have information from Kostolac, you check it out, and if it's not true, I'm willing to bear all the political and other consequences you need. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3237	The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, and then Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3238	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to use microphones unlike some. I must first point out the principled position of the SRS that the truly ruling majority is exaggerating in what has been going on for months, and that was the case in the previous session, sometimes even the 12 points of the agenda are combined into one point. The SRS will never agree to that, not today when we're in opposition, not tomorrow when we're in power. I don't know if it's someone from the government that has to connect some points or if someone here comes to that conclusion. How important the Citizens' Protector also points to the fact that whoever was authorised by the Constitutional Affairs Committee was not present when the proposal was to be reasoned. It is intended for citizens' protector, but in 2005, then the state administration and local self-government minister, Mr. Loncar, proposed the law. Let me tell you that the citizens of Serbia and the public of Serbia know that the obstruction in this parliament is not done by the SRS but by the government. She proposed the law, although the public's protector was not a constitutional category. To not get the wrong idea, the importance of this institution is very great, but we have no trust in either way, nor in those people you propose in these places, or in these functions. Who will protect the citizens of Serbia and us MPs from the following facts? These are the exact figures, you can find them in the 2007 budget proposal. The government's general secretariat, instead of 88 employees so far, is predicting, if he hasn't already hired, 108. You'd say two governments. Someone's got to pay the bills to the citizens from where and what it's about. You'd say two governments, but it's not. Staff Management Service, 25-50, in the jurisdiction of the citizens' protectors. Ministry of Economy and Regional Development 355 – 501 now, eight state secretaries. Ministry of Environmental Protection 231 – 395. Ministry of Culture 75, now 93. And if it's from a good actor, it's a lot. Health Department 383, now 433. They're not employees of health care facilities, they're getting fired, but some might... Well, the Ministry of Faith won't. The National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, also an unconstitutional category, 26, now 32. State Department and Local Self-Government 65, now 99. I guess the minister won't be able to make or sign decisions to change the name of streets and squares, so he'll need someone to help him, and for that reason this ministry will significantly expand in the personnel. EU Association Office 38, now 52. That way we'll probably be joining for decades, but with this government, with you, who are now very supportive of it, there's nothing to do with it. Prime Minister's Office 8, now 19. Vice President's office 10, now 36. Is there anything illogical here for you? Prime Minister, 10, or 19, and Vice President 36. Information Commissioner 5, now 11, and has a regulation on the organisation and systemization of that service, along with a trustee of 22 persons. Why is this important, you asked? I believe no one spoke of this, and they didn't have time to speak from the SRS. You didn't even care. They didn't make it, because they were more based on cash, which the government plans to spend who knows how and how, but the situation will be similar with both the trustee and the public defender. We know that the Citizens' Protector in Vojvodina has devoted one of his reports, three-quarters of his work report for one year to the criticism of one of the vice presidents of the SRS, Mr Milorad Mircic. I guess that's what the Citizens' Protector should do, according to you, and the Information Commissioner. The best protector of citizens is themselves and is an SRS, much better than what we need now to appoint, perhaps already at the next session. In order for nothing to be good with this candidate, Sasha Jankovic, I am a bit of a local patriot, born in Loznica, and I in Ljubovija, that's something that's good, about his personal qualities I can't and I won't talk about. Not only am I unknown to the general public, but the public's protector would be a man who enjoys great trust from the citizens and tries to solve their problems, or help them. Here in his biography stands the fact that Mr. Zoran Krasic, his three professions or occupations, are in the Ministry of Sports and Youth. I don't mind, a relatively young man, but it's like he's running for State Secretary or an assistant minister or some other job at the Ministry of Sports and Youth, and maybe there was a better solution for this gentleman. Someone said -- we're sending a bad message to the citizens of Serbia when we need to establish institutions, because there are two, which they are about to provide protection. The government of the Republic of Serbia should also protect its citizens, it should develop this state, defend it, and only in 2001 do you remember how many citizens in Serbia are out of work. Not only did they run out of work, but political persecution was done. You will agree, counterpart Obradovic, that this took place, that this is still present today, thus not protecting Serbia's citizens. This government is bad, it's upside down, someone would say it's ugly, and I'm not sure that the government's proposals can be good both as citizens' protectors and as people who need to give us public information. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3239	The word has a folk MP Slavisa Topalovic, then Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3240	For the candidate for the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic is the ruling coalition's proposal. Who is this man? Sasa Jankovic – residence, citizenship, place and year of birth: Belgrade, Republika Srpska, Loznica, 1970; working experience: from November 2003 to today – national legal adviser at the OSCE Department for Democratisation of Mission in Serbia, in other words by foreign mercenaries of the NGO; 2001-2002 – assistant for general affairs and international co-operation of the Federal Secretary for Sport and Youth; 2000-2001 – Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Sports; 1997-2000. - expert associate at the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia; 1994-1997 - Beta News Agency reporter. Education: 2005 – Special Security Studies, Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade; 1996 – Faculty of Law in Belgrade, direction of administrative law. Further education and other activities: democratisation and political issues, the specialized course of the Diplomatic Academy in Vienna and the Austrian Centre for Peace Study and Resolution of the Staff Schleining conflict in 2003; public administration and individual in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights, a seminar of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, Trieste 2001; an expert exam for the work in the bodies of the state administration; lectured and lectured abroad and published papers and articles from the area of democratic control of the security and security sector. Remember this "intelligence-security reform". In further exposure, you'll understand why I put an accent on the intelligence and security system. Languages: English, written and spoken, professional level. Information technology: full information literacy. Family: Married, father of a child. It's a biography of Mr. Jankovic, who himself wrote and signed. We will supplement Mr. Jankovic's biography with our knowledge and claims of his friends, neighbors, colleagues and people from the immediate and closer environment. Who is Mr. Jankovic, can he protect the citizens of Serbia? Mr. Sasa Jankovic worked at the Ministry of Sport and Youth of the Government of the Republic of Serbia until 2000. You know who was in power back then. He worked as a legal officer, with limited legal knowledge. A member of the youth organisation SPS and for some time a close associate of Assistant Minister Milivovo Cosic, a former youth manager. He was also a very close associate of youth camp manager Karatash in Gerdap, who was arrested after October 5th and spent five or six months, a certain Shime. Perhaps Mr. Jankovic also reported it to the police because it was later found that Mr. Jankovic was spying on DOS leaders by speaking about Zoran Angelkovic and what he is and what he did not, for his points with DOS leaders. The move to spy on his party confirms and proves that Mr. Jankovic, upon the arrival of DOS to power, is soon awarded and placed as secretary of the Federal Sports Ministry. At the time, the minister was Mr. Andric of New Democracy and former police minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who is an interesting witness these days about the operation of the tobacco mafia at the time. I think you followed in the daily press, which is the text where Cedomir Jovanovic and Vladimir – Beba Popovic, who were at the time the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and the head of the Serbian Communications Bureau, were appointed to those functions on the DS proposal and, of course, were members of the DS at the time, i.e. Your clients, gentlemen. Let's get back to the subject, Mr. Jankovic. Mr. Jankovic did not deserve this place, I mean as secretary of the Federal Ministry of Sports, no knowledge and work experience at the Ministry of Sports in the previous period. He deserved it probably as a well-trained spy in other people's ranks, as these facts also confirm his delegation and setting up for the Citizens' Protector, by DSS, a encrypted van and a van of the ruling coalition's parties. Mr. Jankovic was an active member of the SPS until 5 October 2000. The honest member certainly wasn't, but he was an active member. For him and another smaller group from the ministry, who were hired to reregister sports organisations, and according to the new Sport Act, at the time, was bound by an affair of illegal money-taking, 50 to 100 marks from clubs at the time, so that a re-registration would be carried out, if it is known that there were more than 12,000 sports clubs in Serbia that were to perform the re-registration. To point out, the exact number of re-registrations they made is unknown, because, in time or before, they were interrupted. It was all done without knowing the leader of the Sports Ministry. The abuse was later discovered, like I said. Some people, who were working under the deed, were fired, and the affair was then covered up. The person from the nearby environment of Mr Jankovic argues that he is a person prone to intrigue. This is confirmed by the frequent argument between sports ministry officials, upon Mr. Jankovic's arrival in the middle. Maybe he was assigned by the DOS leader at the time to act that way. That hasn't been exacted yet. As the secretary of the Federal Ministry of Sports, he acted very ossy and arrogantly, both towards subjugated officials and to the parties who came to the ministry. I assume that the authorities and leaders of the new DOS, I mean the current ruling coalition, looked well into Mr. Jankovic's past and the impact of his work at the Ministry of Sport in the previous period. It's normal for you to ask a good question about the man you're proposing as Protector of the Citizens, it's not any function. I suggest you send an inspection that is competent to look at the federal sports ministry's financial report during which Mr. Jankovic was present in the ministry. If you have not done so so far, consider it very unprofessional of you, as an authority that has the role of Mr. Jankovic's promoter as the patron of citizens. If by any chance you've done it, then you're a participant in possible malfeasances that you've consciously hidden. I ask the question – did you well examine who Mr Jankovic is and will you vote for a man like this who cannot save himself, not the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3241	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3242	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have heard the SRS' position on these two proposals, you have heard the comments of my colleagues and when it comes to the proposal to elect the Commissioner for Information and Proposal for the Citizens' Protector. I'll try one other way to explain and confirm what's already been said. It was normal for Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, as a man who has already performed this function, to submit a report to the National Assembly on his work so far. I know that he did deliver a report every year, here from the site I took one part, in fact the whole report, but we had to dedicate one item to the report so that we could conclude from that report whether we still support Rodoljub Šabić or if we were going to help Rodoljub Šabić establish a more normal contact with those of whom he should provide information. What Mr. Rodoljub Sabic tells us in this report, among other things. He says that, according to the resolutions, of the 42 charges filed against the trustees, the Supreme Court has resolved 18 lawsuits by dismissing 13 lawsuits and five refusing as unfounded. This is very interesting to me as a lawyer, whether this great lawyer Rodoljub Sabic really had the basis for filing these charges or the Supreme Court, God forbid, protecting someone from the executive authority. Furthermore, Rodoljub Sabic says, according to lawsuits against the government and the People's Office of the President of the Republic, the Supreme Court has not decided on the credentials delivered. So this is also an interesting topic as to how the Supreme Court does not decide on lawsuits against the Government and the People's Office of the President of the Republic. According to Rodoljub Šabić – according to the information available despite the solutions made by the Commissioner, the public remained deprived of the information on: building a bridge near Beška and the cablers on Kopalnik, on projects in the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, on the five largest investments in Serbia by the Ministry of Capital Investments, on the number of persons submitted and tapped in 2005, by the BIA, on the factual situation and on the measures taken by SRS and the National Movement of Resistance in connection with the "Mobtel" case, giving consent to the document of memos on the agreement of "PTT Serbia Public Enterprise" and the new owners of "Mobtel" by the Ministry of Capital Investments and the Republic of Public Defence, the procedure for the tragic death of journalist Radoslavka Vušinović of Belgrade Public Prosecutorship. Then, on the procurement of trains from Sweden by the Public Undertaking of Serbia, the procurement of aircraft from ERBAS by JAT, the salaries of directors or the remuneration of members of administrative and supervisory committees at the "public firm NIS" and the Airport "Nikola Tesla", and the TUNJUG News Agency, the fees paid for representations, testimony and reporting before the arbitration tribunal in Zurich in the dispute of the "PTT Serbia Public Enterprise" and the Brothers Karic Company – "BK Trade System", the equipment from donations in the City of Nis and the cost of representation in the Municipality of the Red Cross in Nis, the financing of political parties, and of the applicable offers for business and housing operations in the Municipality of Sajovci. Further, on the allocated budgets of religious communities in Novi Pazar Municipality and Trade, on the financing of political parties in Jagodina, on the transfer of funds of Vršac Municipality 'Television Banat', on the use of the language of national minorities in the Municipality of Rum and Titel, on data on animal protection facilities and measures in the Municipality of Negotin and Sombor, on the use of advertising means, on the specification of the costs of financing of construction programs and data on housing of the Institute for the construction of Novi Sad, on the realisation of the budget in the municipality of Temerin, on earnings and telephone costs in the municipality of Alexandrovac. Furthermore, on documents from local self-government bodies, on the withdrawal of the mandates of the committees, records from sessions and others in the municipality of Žitište, on the reception of personnel in the Municipality of Trgovište, in access to individual documents of the authority of interest to the applicant, information such as BIA files for the deceased family member, copies of documents from the premises, construction documents, medical records, case files and other documents. So, respected fellow MPs, you can see for yourself that all that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, all that the citizens would like to know from Rodoljub Sabic as a trustee could not get the information. What's this supposed to mean? Yes or Mr. Rodoljub Šabić is unable to perform this function or Mr. Rodoljub Šabić is not respected by the competent authorities, and as you heard, the most important part is the Ministry of Capital Investments then, and now for infrastructure it seems to me. But in any case, Rodoljub Sabic, a man who himself said what he was unable to do, can no longer perform this function. He can't perform before everything he's a moral man. You heard here how he went from party to party, gave up his parties and party programs, etc., just to stay in this function and that says that a man of such moral qualities can't do that. I, you know, I love that people's "I don't give my head to Serbia," but Rodoljub Shabic could be given "I give the party, I don't give the chair". But since there is no more party then it looks like "the cheek gives the chair doesn't give" and it really doesn't recommend it at least as far as the SRS is concerned for this function. There is something more interesting in this report when it comes to salaries in certain public enterprises and the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to Rodoljub Sabic, the most common reason why the state authorities have denied the requested information is to call for the confidentiality of documents, without providing evidence that it protects some major interest in how the law requires it, or that the applicant has no legitimate interest, as he claims he did not have the status of the party in some procedure in front of the authorities for which the information is sought, which must also not be a reason to deny the information. There have also been cases of unfounded denial of information by calling for legal provisions, imagine, protection of privacy and abuse of the right to information, and it has been information related to the performance of public affairs, such as on salaries and other issues from the budget of public officials. Thanks to this attitude today, probably even many MPs do not know, and Serbian citizens certainly do not, that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has increased its salary two or three times in that past term, so today the assistant minister has about 110,000 salaries, the state secretary for the minister, believe me, I don't know. So it's a state secret, and the ministers are working on a percentage, so Mr. Todorovic, thank you for your help. You were always right. So, what does the trustee, or patron of the citizens, mean? You've also heard about the protection of citizens what's most characteristic, which is that he's a man who comes from an NGO, next to a deputy secretary who's from an NGO. You, too, are bringing new people from NGOs into state authorities. That's not good. You say when you've passed the law, that you're trying to be a non-partisan person. Mr. Gabrielovich, nod your head. Believe me, I would rather vote that you as a member of the Democratic Party be this patron of citizens than this, as it is called, from an NGO. Because maybe your party can, they can shut you out of the party if it turns out you didn't do your job in accordance with the law. And who does this suit? Maybe some NGO. The centre for peace and development of democracy, it is called, usually run by Mrs Vesna Pesic in Serbia. She applied to some, at the German and Dutch embassies, with some programme to appoint a Protector of Citizens or Ombudsman in Leskovac and Novi Pazar. That project has been approved. It was launched in 2006, and the realization continues this year. Why is this especially and especially necessary for the protection of citizens right in Leskovac, right in Novi Pazar, right from the embassies of Germany and the Netherlands and right in the organization of Vesna Pesic? My dear colleagues, what you're doing is no good. Believe me, it's no good for the state, and when it's no good for the state, you'll understand one day it's no good for you either. What does this patron of the citizens even mean to you? I know his jurisdiction under Article 138. The Constitution. Unfortunately, whoever that man was cannot answer us why Kostunica and Tadic lied, say General Zdravko Tolimir was arrested in Republika Srpska, when it is known that he was arrested at Bezanski Kosa. He cannot answer how Djelic managed to take 11m euros to the Meridian Bank and what will happen because he has only slightly broken the law. He didn't report it until he was reminded of it by the MPs of the SRS. This is just one piece. That, "Karić's cashier," is on the other account. Yes, yes, this protector also cannot tell us what will happen to the contract Dinkic concluded and damaged the country by 5 million with TV B 92. What about the National Savings Bank?- I'm sorry. This man cannot tell us whether, Dusan Petrovic, the justice minister can answer us, after that murder in that court, in Ojac, yesterday, the day before, when it was, the judge gets a slap in the courtroom. How did it happen? So Trizon escaped from court. So Trizon fled, Financer Boris Tadic, how did I forget, escaped from court? How did a reporter get into the Court of Justice two days ago, then into the Third and Fifth Municipal Court with two knives, and that scanner and those cops standing there? Even that can't be answered by this patron of the citizens. We can't get an answer from the Guardian of Citizens or what it means on the Racha board. I guess Gilas needs to know that answer. On Raca before the Sava River, there is no river, there is a board – this bridge is funded from the National Investment Programme. There's no bridge, there's no river, there's no God's funding. Where is that money Gilas knows, but this protector can't answer us. Let me remind you where Racha is, the DSS. You might know. I remind them because Vojislav Kostunica was with Dodik in the election campaign, almost, in this last election campaign, so they stood on the bridge on the Sava. Then Kostunica must have heard that Drina shared or did not share Serbs for whom she does not share for you, so he showed Sava and said: this river Drina will no longer share Serbs. There's a bridge, an invisible bridge. Whether this gentleman you choose can give us information or get information from Sutanovac, Jocic, Ljajic why Gojko Klickovic did not receive citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. All his family members got it, he didn't get it. He's already been transferred. (Dragan Todorovic raider from the scene: He was transferred to Sarajevo, a record was made. He was transferred to The Hague? No, I don't. I'm sorry, it means worse. So here's what I'm getting from Mr. Todorovic that Gojko Klickovic has been transferred to Sarajevo on charges of war crimes. That was why he couldn't get citizenship here, and his family lives here and has citizenship. There are many, ladies and gentlemen, questions that neither the Citizens' Protector nor this Commissioner can answer, nor can the Attorney General, because he is not here. But the God of health and a little more patience for the citizens will be both the public prosecutor and the answer to all the questions and there will be a lot of those who will answer to the authorities, not politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3243	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Calm down, please, well, don't like it at that age. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] Relax, just a little bit longer. Ms. Verica Radeta has already informed you of what happened to Gojko Klickovic. I will remind you that it is one of the first prime ministers of the Republika Srpska government to allegedly be charged with economic crime. You remember Mr. Mandic, who was one of the ministers in Republika Srpska's government. An indictment has also been filed, allegedly against crime, to be in the War Crimes Department today. The trial didn't begin which seems to be the manner of all these war crimes courts, because they look up to The Hague tribunal. But Verica Radeta has already informed you about the Gojko Klickovic case. He filed for citizenship. His wife and his daughter got him. Unfortunately, he didn't get it. But today he was extradited and directly transferred immediately to the War Crimes Department even though they sought him out, allegedly, for economic crime. I remind you only of the role of our country, this subordinate position that Serbia has accepted, I don't know for what reason. I only remind you of the crimes that took place in Sarajevo. I don't know if you think it's funny now, Mr. Gavrilovich. I remind you of the crimes that took place in Tuzla. I remind you of the crimes that occurred during the exodus of the Serb people from Republika Srpska, when the Bosnian Federation army or the Muslim army committed it against the Serbs. None of them are called to account, and the state of Serbia is silent. And he extradites his citizens to anyone who asks, with that finger he does not move to investigate and prosecute crimes committed against Serbs. It speaks of the character of this country, it speaks of the character and relationship of this government to its own citizens. Of course, you think that's funny. What do you want to know about General Tolimir, was he arrested on Bezanski's hair or was he arrested in Republika Srpska? As far as you're concerned from the Democratic Party, you wouldn't think for a second. You would have arrested him, as well as Vojislav Kostunica, on Bezanijah's hair, immediately delivered him, I suppose that's why you would have received the prize that was called, as you received when you handed over Slobodan Milosevic and all those others for whom the warrant was called. But you need to take care of one thing, about the state. It's about the citizens of this country and the role this country would have to play. The role each country plays towards its own citizens. One day, eventually, it comes up and it's coming down on its head, then it's gonna be too late. It's not worth it to you, ma'am, and it obviously doesn't get where it's supposed to be. What's going on, you're going to have to try to get information in some way to figure out what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3245	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic and then by Paja Momchilov. There are 14 minutes left to discuss and you have four speakers on the list, along with Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with Mrs Jelena Markovic's conclusion that the Serbian Radical Party does not support the importance of the institution of trustees for information of public importance and the importance of the institution of protection of citizens. We just think that the candidates who are proposed are not appropriate, or that they will not perform their function properly. I won't talk much about Rodoljub Sabic and Mr Dragan Todorovic and Mrs Radeta and other debaters from the Serbian Radical Party have said enough about it. I'm just going to say a few words about the candidate who was proposed to protect the citizens. First of all, the institution of protection of citizens was historically observed by circumstances and the factical route in Sweden, in the 17th century, when Swedish King Carlo fled Sweden because of political turmoil, and in order to know what was going on in his country he appointed a trustee and commissioner who was to follow the political situation in the country. The word ombudsman in Swedish actually means trustee, or commissioner. For the first time, the institution of protection of citizens is normably regulated by the Swedish Constitution of 1809, and in the post-World War II, a large number of countries in Europe and outside Europe accept the ombudsman institution. Among other things, the Republic of Serbia did so when it passed the Civil Protection Act in 2005. At the end of 2004, I attended an international scientific conference held in Belgrade, at the Hayat Hotel, when a draft law on the protection of citizens was presented. There were Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and then Minister for State and Local Self-Government, and there was Mr Balinovac, as well as the head of the OSCE mission in Serbia, Mauricio Masari. They all announced very pompously to the citizens' protection institution, that it is an institution that is very important for the development of democracy and human rights in Serbia. Now we're getting a candidate for that function. What kind of candidate is this? First of all, I must say that Mr. Sasu Jankovic was allegedly running for this post by the Constitutional Affairs Committee. I, by circumstances, am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and material, see that the session was held on 14 June 2007. I did not take part in that session, nor was I informed that the session was being held, so I believe that Mr. Sasa Jankovic is not actually a candidate of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but rather of the ruling majority in that Committee. The parallel practice of countries that know the institutions of the Ombudsman, or the Protector of the Citizens, shows that this institution gave the best results when the Protector was a strong person and independent, who could resist all pressures of the government and above all government. Of course, it is necessary for the citizens' protector to know the work of the state authorities that he controls, and that is, above all, the authorities of the state administration. What do you see from Mr. Sasa Jankovic's biography? First of all, he has not had much to do with the state administration so far, the only essential link with the state administration is reportedly that he passed an expert exam for the work of the authorities of the state administration, which is not some great wisdom, and allegedly the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, the direction of administrative law. I have no doubt that a man graduated from law school, but I doubt he finished his course for administrative law, because, as far as I know, in 1996, at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there was no direction for administrative law. All those who finished law school ended up so-called general direction. It is possible that he ended up with plagiarist Stevan Lilic of the "buldozer" of democracy. The direction for administrative law, i.e. constitutional and administrative law, exists at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, but this is the direction towards postgraduate studies, or Master's Studies. I don't see that Sasa Jankovic has completed his master's studies, and all I can see is that he graduated from law school. He has so far had little to do with the state administration and, as we can see, he has worked and is still working as a national legal adviser in the OSCE Democratisation Department in Serbia. He was a civil servant at the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, he was a journalist, and what I believe is his main recommendation for this function to deal with security issues and to complete some courses on the issue of the Council of Europe, etc. I personally believe that Mr. Sasa Jankovic and I don't want to say anything ugly about this man, I don't know him personally, but I don't think he's going to be able to perform the quality of the function that the Constitution and the Civil Protection Act imposes on him. On the other hand, if you look at the 2007 draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that 25 million dinars have been allocated to the Guardian; that a administrative court, which has also failed to function and has had to start working since 1 January of this year, is projected to be slightly more than 22 million dinars. All those who know the technology of the work of the judicial authorities know that the functioning of the administrative court is far more complicated and that much more resources are needed for the work of the administrative court than funds are needed for the work of the Guardians of Citizens. The administrative court, as the word itself says, is a collegiate body, and the protection of citizens is an incoherent body. The question arises as to why the Serbian government has proposed to protect the citizens of almost 25 million dinars. It is clear that you do not really care about having a high-quality, independent, brave civil protection who will protect citizens' rights against the illegal and inconsequential work of the government's authority. You are clearly intending to turn the institution of citizens' protectors into a well-paid "sonagekura" and to employ in this service a large number of your party staffs, as Mr. Sasa Jankovic is apparently also, and that the protection of citizens will obviously not benefit much from the ordinary world in Serbia. Because of this, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group will not vote for a candidate of the Citizens' Protector, who was allegedly proposed by the Constitutional Affairs Committee, or the ruling majority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3247	The word has a People's MP, Paja Momchilov, and you have 7 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3248	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as you are told, Serbian Radical Party MPs cannot vote in favour of the proposal we received for Mr Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic. We don't have enough time, unfortunately, in this limited debate, in this limited parliament and in this remote state. But what is it, it's here. I'm just going to try to give a brief explanation, so it doesn't turn out that we now have some animosity to this majority political group, but to try some arguments to support it. I wouldn't say anything about Mr. Jankovic, he's at least a controversial person, and to end it. It's clear and we've heard clear data. As for Mr. Sabic, it was the gentleman who advocated the formation of a three-city "moral city" and you remember that none of the projects were there. The project has cheered many of us who have met with this wonderful proposal. But that's a man who hasn't had his office in six months, and of course, that's the man who in the first show in the larger performance for his function said he was in "the Kafkian atmosphere". Of course, I'm not quoting any literature here right now, Mr. Shabic's words. What's most interesting after the first year of work, 400 cases - is not at all responsible. Let's get this straight. First, it is one game and your law that has a name – the Law on free access to information of public importance. If the law were called - the law on free access to information, then maybe it would be fine. As soon as you introduce this, of public importance, then what? You're making a selection of what's public importance. Who has the information? There's a government. So, the government is an arbiter, and if you look at that second member of the law again, then that arbitration is increased, so it says this - what is information of public importance? So everything the public has a legitimate interest in. Look, there's now another condition that it's justifiable interest. It's clearly a comedy and that setting these people up in this place is something that's funny. What do I mean? Why don't we vote, here's to leave this controversial Jankovic alone and Mr. Sabic alone. Serbia's problem is corruption at the moment. That's what your foreign mentors say, here's the European Commission, the document I'm not going to read, where they clearly say the problem is that the government doesn't want to make all the information available that is of public interest to citizens. That's what it says in this document, so we don't talk any further. One big problem, I'm now going back to the field of health from where I can speak most effectively and most measuredly, and money and corruption are being spent in health care through a tender and so on. projects where the international community is helping us. At this moment, this is your document of the Office of Liaison with Europe, where it is active at this point in the field of health 68 projects. About these projects, we doctors have no idea. You can't even find the data, you can find out what kind of project it is, so how much money is being allocated, and that's the millions that are being allocated to the so-called. projects. So 68 projects are active, and no one knows. Why don't you ask, someone will ask, because they've been looking for people and we've asked how many times to open projects, to see what the sums are, who are the project's bearers, where the budget is projected, and we didn't get any of them. Since I have very little time, I don't want to talk much, I just want to finish with one example. Blood transfusions, now you see big action B92, they spread out, actors and acting, president acting, you don't know who's an actor like a politician anymore. We also know that some gave 125 milliliters of blood before, not in this action, so they took pictures. There were such actions. What about blood transfusions? If you read daily newspapers, and we are mostly informed from daily newspapers, then you will see one information from June 13, 2006, and it is said – between 120 and 150 units of blood are collected daily in Belgrade. So it takes 300 units and then an alarming appeal is made. Here's to prove one concrete document, where the institution that collects that blood is urgently sought out of the inside, and it says - please answer us urgently if you have any excess blood we could take from your service, to meet the needs of patients in Belgrade. The date is 27.11.2006, appeal, application. What are we talking about? We don't have enough blood. What did we have? We had a project where it was spent, you don't know how much money, five million first, and then two million, and what happened? The people who were looking for information, I have everything here in the documents, and we'll talk about it later, they ended up in courts, they were threatened, in various ways, by volunteers, by blood donors, by people who gave blood over 170 times, who asked for information, because they simply didn't get permission to rob and take money, not just us citizens, because there are donations, there are loans, in this very best way to manipulate themselves. So these are the things that Mr. Sabic had to do in his capacity to enable them to be reached, but there is no knowledge and that is why we cannot give him our support. We hope that this Parliament will have moral strength and human strength that if we form a polling committee for spending money on health projects, it will accept that it is a topic of work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3249	The word has a National MP Nikola Vukelic, you have a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3250	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 5. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the National Assembly is elected by the authority responsible for monitoring and exercising citizens' right to notification. So we should choose the Commissioner for Information from public importance. The Commissioner, even if he is the most professional, and not as we have heard, Rodoljub Sabic, will hardly deal with this government, which is obviously chronically uninformed. It is the right of the citizens of Serbia and our MPs to know the truth about the arrest of General Tolimir. Why are you hiding the truth that General Tolimir was arrested here in Belgrade and arrested by Serbian police? We wonder how many more Serbs need to die in The Hague to fill at least temporary appetites, mostly hungry Carla del Ponte. From such a government, the government of the captivating DOS of Serbia could not have expected anything else. You are reportedly seeking to strengthen ties with Republika Srpska, and treat people who fought for the people in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska in such a shameful way. Had it not been for Tolimir, Ratko Mladic and others you have already delivered or that you are still chasing Serbia, there would have been no Republika Srpska or Serbs in it. There would be in the camps, in the pits which, as in World War II, the Muslims prepared for us and the Ustashas. Arrest Serbian generals and meet Ustasha criminals. You welcome here Stipe Mesic, who was the main associate of Franjo Tudjman in 1991 in the destruction of Serbs in Croatia. This DOS friend of yours who, like you, is a great European and a Democrats, calls the crime "Blash" a perfectly professional task. From Stipe Mesic, Serbs may only more hate the president of the Croatian party of law, Ante Djapic, a worthy successor of Ustakovic's Ustaslavic head. Otherwise, it is known that Ustasha Ante Djapic is a well-known guest with Vice President G17 plus Ivana Dulic-Markovic. In addition to hanging out with Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Ante Djapic likes to stop by the Thompson concert, of course, as an honorary guest. On the occasion of the fascist concert, the director of the Centre "Simon Visental", but none of the Serbian government officials reacted, nor did this new one -- old Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic. It is important to you that you meet the UN tribunal's obligations without speaking, and that Carla del Ponte commends you. The so-called The Hague tribunal, because of all its shameful verdicts, is a legal mockery and civilization shame, and those who look forward to delivering and who persecute Serbian heroes and their families, are a disgrace to Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3251	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not concluded his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3252	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will not support the proposed candidates for the civil defender and the Commissioner for Information, because we are convinced that both candidates are the result of a trade that was made within the assembly's majority. I'm not saying this by accident. It is interesting that these two proposals were in the package, which were discussed at the same time. Here are two staff proposals at the same time, the board sessions were held at the same time. For those who are not referred to the work of the Assembly, or committee, I must say that the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the meetings of the Committee on Information have been held for an hour and some time, that individual representatives of the Assembly's majority should come and propose candidates. It was about to be seen how one, or another proposal would pass, so that they would not deceive one another. It is interesting that everything that has happened over the past month related to the selection of public information creditors has been made available to the public, and some of these have been mentioned today, and I will mention something modest. What was happening, in fact, confirms my fundamental thesis that the deal between the congregation's majority was the result. It is their right to propose a candidate on whom they agree, and it is our SPS MPs that we do not support this proposal. For the public it may have remained in the second plan of the interview that Mr. Sabic gave the newspaper "The Sunday Telegraph", 6 June 2007, and for you fellow MPs and the public it will be interesting to hear it, the title says – For many in power I am a state enemy. For those in power who will now vote for him, i.e. who have identified him as a candidate and not to mention what my colleague Radeta mentioned when she spoke about the report on the work of the Commissioner, and otherwise for those who do not know, this report bears the date of 12 March 2007. The interview came out on June 6, 2007. In this interview, which is very interesting, Sabic is very open, directly and clearly, transparently saying what he thinks about power. He believes that for many in power he is a state enemy. He says his opinion of the government is that there is no affair, I quote -- "in which one of the authorities is not involved in one way or another; vests, satellites, university, roadside, bankruptcy, tax, and who knows what other mafia. The problem is that the affairs mostly remain affairs, and most often there are so many needed consequences." Then he gives a certain opinion that the government supported the work of the Information Commissioners, he says, "The government has forgotten to provide the most vulnerable assumptions for the work of the trustees. It took them half a year to start working. The government does not refer to the demands made by the Commissioner. The government does not refer to initiatives provided by the Trustee regarding the necessary education of personnel, to the submission of complementary laws" etc. On three pages, Mr. Sabic clearly says what he thinks about the government's work and says, as compared to the provisions of the Trustee Act, the government has certain obligations, and says, "The government has not, and since it was obliged to ensure the execution of the trustee's solution, the government in no way has asked citizens, journalists or anyone else, the government has not done so," and if he mentions, because it is a very certain number of interventions, the government has not done so. Why am I saying this? It is the right of every MP to express his position or the position of the parliamentary group, to affirm these institutions. Unfortunately, the way in which some of the personnel solutions come to us, the MPs of the opposition, gives us the right to suspect that the work of these institutions and people headed by these institutions will be of quality. We are fully convinced, given that all of this we, MPs of the SPS, have closely followed the work related to these two laws, the work of the Committee, the way of proposing and all that has been said about these two people, and nothing has been said, we just got the biographies black on white. We are fully convinced, especially when in the case of the Information Commissioner, that a part of the congregation's majority is proposing to the trustee to obtain the data contained in the report, and the Trustee has not received them. It is very taxing that all the items, or questions asked by the trustee, are listed here, and until today he has not received them, not to repeat them, already said by one of his colleagues. That part of the congregation's majority suggests this candidate to obtain this data, and the other part will reluctantly support the candidate so that he does not give it away. This is the essence of the story of the Commissioners and why the MPs of the assembly's majority agreed, because it is not disputed, everyone knows it, including us, of course, that it was about the man who was the MP of DOS, that he fiercely criticised the government in these elections. After all, this text also confirms statements in other means of public information, but this man today is a candidate of the congregation's majority, of course as a non-party figure. A good colleague reminded me of being a nonpartisan person. The way the proposal was proposed and what the Commissioner was saying, what he said and the questions he didn't get the answer, the way it was found, gives us absolutely the right to think, we think he's not going to do his job. It'll be interesting, because, unfortunately, it's the only way we can determine what's going on, unless we ask the Commissioner for information on what he's done. This list of issues listed in the March 12th report, which the trustee did not receive an appropriate answer, will remain in the next report, i.e. only an increase in the number of questions he did not receive. It doesn't give us any hope of getting better, but we'll see. It is the right of the assembly majority to choose and propose, and you saw that the strongest argument for the budget was the fact that 130 MPs were there, not during the debate, but when the vote came. So the greatest quality of the proposal is that they will be voted, and then they will say, yes, we have institutions, and the way these institutions do, it's hard for citizens. In any case, the SPS MPs believe that there are also enough reasons not to support both proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-20-0.u3253	Thank you. I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of the Citizens' Protectors and the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Public Information. That concludes today's workday, pick-up tomorrow at 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
