ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Before we begin our work, I ask you to pay our last letter to the deceased MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the mayor of Belgrade, Nenad Bogdanovic. May his eternal glory be, and thank you. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 141 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda, exists if at least 156 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Monday 1 October 2007, so within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. The minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 29 June, 3 5 and 13 July 2007, and the session of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 24 July and 25 July 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes of the session of the 4th, 6th and 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2007. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has been sent to that committee in writing an objection to the minutes of these sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 29 June, 3, 5 and 13 July 2007. For 132, one of the 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the Journal of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the 2007 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session held on 24 and 25 July 2007. For 129, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2007 session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, the extension of the agenda and the proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 June 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 June 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 133 MPs voted for 131. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, they did not vote three out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote five out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, they did not vote four out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, 10 of the 134 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law confirming the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 July 2007, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 131, five of 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, six out of 135 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, seven out of 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Serb Railways - Vehicles) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Six out of 137 MPs did not vote for 131. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Train Reconstruction Project II), which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 7, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version of the Amending Protocol of 3 June 1999, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 September 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 132, 5 of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 9, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Additional Protocol under the Criminal Convention on Corruption, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Six out of 137 MPs did not vote for 131. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 September 2007, be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 132, 5 of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, suggested putting the draft decision on discharge and appointment of members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 132, 5 of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Management Board proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Commissioner for Public Information Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 September 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 5 out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Management Board proposed that the draft decision on granting consent to the Civil Protection Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 September 2007, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 6, out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, suggested that, on the basis of Articles 90, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda of this session, extends to the point - Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Law on Higher Education ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No 76/05), which was submitted by the National Assembly Legislative Committee on 25 July 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 133, two out of 135 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) of Rule 2 of Article 140(3) and Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that it be carried out - a joint principled search on the point. 2nd to 5th agenda, - joint principled search on point. 6 and 7 of the proposed agenda, - a joint single search on the point. The 10th to 14th agenda, - a joint single search on the point. 15 to 20 of the proposed agenda, - a joint single search on the point. 21 to 25 of the proposed agenda, - a joint single search on the point. 26 to 30 of the proposed agenda, - a joint single search on the point. The proposed agenda shall be 31st and 32nd. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. For 133, they did not vote four out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. I'm taking a five-minute break. Wait, there's another expansion, another point. I ask the MPs to take their seats, we will continue our work. A group of 81 MPs of the SRS Parliamentary Group proposed to be put on the agenda of this session, following an emergency procedure - a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the blockade and isolation of the United States' Republic of Cuba, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2007 and, in accordance with Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this point is considered to be the 1st item of the agenda of this session. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6749	Mr. Dullich, I don't know why, what's your behavior like this for? First you hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you voted on a merger, on proposals to merge the agenda, before deciding on proposals to expand the agenda. Then, on the European watch, in three seconds you decided it was five minutes, and then you forget, or you don't want to give a word to a representative of the enlargement of the agenda. You're not asking, at all, if anyone wants a word, but you're moving on and you're trying to put it to a vote. I believe this is the provocation of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group, ignoring our rights under the Rules of Procedure which, however it may be, exists. If you want, you can answer me now, so I can move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6750	Of course, according to Article 162(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we decided to put matters on the agenda by emergency procedure. When it's decided, it's decided without a search. But, please, you've got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6751	Mr. President, you need to change your service. Therefore, no discussion shall be taken of the proposals for putting an end to an emergency procedure. In the case of a proposal to extend the agenda - the proposing representative has the right to explain the proposal within three minutes. He even has the right to answer, to convince the congregation whether it is necessary or not. That is why we have made a proposal for it to be an emergency procedure and to extend the agenda to that point of the agenda. So, I'd like to use three minutes now. Maybe I don't need three minutes. I know you're reasonable people. I know you've all lived under sanctions and blockades. Serbia survived the blockade, which brought it back hundreds of years, which was so cruel that it brought you to power. I don't think any Serbian citizen has the right to approve or participate in the blockade of any country in the world anymore. For 47 years, the Republic of Cuba has lived in the most brutal blockade and isolation that is remembered in the world. A world police officer, the United States, has set up a blockade against the Republic of Cuba. I accept that we can talk and change a few things by amendment in this declaration, but based on the data you can get at the Cuban Embassy, you could easily conclude that this blockade, or its terrible consequences, is almost a direct genocide, because simply a wonderful nation, one wonderful country cannot move beyond the limits that they can cross. God forbid someone puts your government in such isolation and sanctions, you wouldn't last six months, and Serbia wouldn't last two or three years. More than 180 world nations vote each year at the United Nations General Assembly to abolish the blockade against Cuba. That blockade is still held by the United States, with two, three of its satellites at most, found in the General Assembly. As I was informed, on one of the committees, our representative voted for an extension of the blockade. I think that was the last statement on the blockade at the General Assembly, where our representative voted to extend the blockade. Please don't play with it. Please understand that the world is based on the Charter of the United Nations, on the same charter that we are now trying to fight for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. I ask you to think of your children when deciding about someone else's. I'm asking you to put this on the agenda and that during this session, until this point enters the agenda, we agree whether something needs to be changed, that maybe we haven't pissed off too many of those you count on not to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. We're ready for everything. But October is the month in which it is decided in the United Nations. I would ask you to put this on the agenda, and the fate of the document is, in fact, your relationship with the UN Charter, according to citizens' rights, according to the distribution of economic power, power, wealth, beauty. Remember, when Columbus landed in Cuba, he said – we are now alive in heaven. Someone doesn't allow that paradise to really serve the citizens of Cuba. Someone would want to destroy all that, so that I live and build up there. As far as we're concerned, we're ready for the deal. We'll vote for the declaration, and we'll vote for your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6752	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 131 MPs voted against - four, with eight abstentions, 52 MPs did not vote. A total of 195 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 125, against two, 64 MPs, of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, in general. I ask the Service of the National Assembly to make up a consolidated text of the agenda of this session and deliver it to the MPs. Agenda: 1. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, 2nd Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Government Act, 3rd Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a Law on the State Seal of the Republic of Serbia, 7. A Proposal for a Law on the Seal of State and Other Authorities, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the United Nations Convention on the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa, 11. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context, 12. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, 14. A Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Wildlife Migration, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on Social Insurance, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border mark and its maintenance, 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia by the Benelux Government on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol, 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, 20. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Serbian Railways - Vehicles) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 27. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (Train Reconstruction Project II), 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe, 29. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 (Protocol 1999) and the Convention on International Railway Transportation (COTIF) of 9 May 1980 in the version under the Protocol on the amendments of 3 June 1999, 30 June 1999. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of acts of the World Postal Federation, 31. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner for Public Information Act, 32. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Civil Protection Act, 33. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 127(1) and (2) Higher education law, 34. Proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the condemnation of the blockade and isolation of the Republic of Cuba by the United States, We move to work on the established agenda. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MPs Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Laslo Varga, Vladan Batic, Rajko Đuric and Zoran Krasic reported. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6753	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, ministers, I am taking the opportunity to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and to remind citizens of the Republic of Serbia that today is Solidarity Day with old figures of international character. This population is, unfortunately, because of current democratic movements, more and more from year to year, so all of us today, and especially the representatives of political parties who are participating in power and who, above all, are responsible for this situation, need to ask ourselves what we are today and what we have ever done for old people, whether they should be just a target group to raise votes in pre-election campaigns. The Socialist Party of Serbia does not see, above all, this, but sees one factor in family security, a source of wise family advice and a thousand other ways in which they can be useful to one family. I therefore ask a parliamentary question to the government and to the competent ministry - when will it propose to the Assembly to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act by urgent procedure, in the sense that pensions must be coordinated exclusively with the movement of earnings, because pensions are in an unbreakable continuity with earnings? The current harmonisation of pensions, in part with profits, and in part with the cost of living, is inadmissible because it led to the average pension below 50% of the average income in the Republic of Serbia today, and we know it is not legal. The second question - why is pensions, which is normally a legal obligation, not in good time, so, if necessary, and monthly, so that every month the average pension is 60% of the average income in the Republic of Serbia, for what did the Socialist Party of Serbia win by its amendment on time, which was a condition for this law to be accepted? Today, when the SPS does not participate in power and can no longer influence it, it feels deceived, like all pensioners today in Serbia. Next question - why must this coordination wait for the end of the year and, if the end of the year wait, will pensioners and retrogrades be paid the difference for these months in which the law is broken this year? I would briefly like to remind you that there are about a million and a half pensioners in Serbia today, unfortunately, only so many employees. Over 40,000 pensioners have incomes, has pensions below 8,000 dinars per month, and another 500,000 pensioners have incomes below 11,000 per month. I'll just remind you that the minimum consumer basket is 17,360 dinars. Doesn't this sound like a sarcastic proposal from the Ministry of Labour, on the PUPS initiative, for a one-time aid of only 3,000 dinars, for the most endangered pensioners?- I'm sorry. Today, not only pensioners, but also disabled people and war people with disabilities and all other social categories who cannot afford to make a profit for the employer, who are not interested in the aspect of liberal capitalism, which only the Socialist Party of Serbia has taken into account and has always tried to equalise all of them within its limits with other categories of population. Just for the end, one example. We'll take a pension that is for these terms and conditions, of 16200 dinars, which has been increased, after an increase of 3.75 percent, to 16.800 dinars, for the symbolic 600 dinars, to say at first sight. But if it is known that this increase came with a April pension, and that in March there was an increase in Infostan by 400 dinars, it is clear that this pension has, in fact, been increased by only 200 dinars, and that pensioners themselves financed by these 400 dinars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6754	Thank you, colleague Dimitrievich. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Laslo Varga and then MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6755	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the National Assembly has violated several members of the Rules of Procedure, the most drastic member of the 90th, which refers to the enlargement of the agenda. On June 19th, the MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, with the intention of putting the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda. I don't think there's any explanation why this proposal isn't on the agenda today, or why it wasn't put to the vote to be put on the agenda. Do not, President, say that we have not submitted this bill within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Three days before the deadline for holding this session. That, of course, is not an explanation. You better admit that it is uncomfortable for you to put this bill on the agenda, especially embarrassing for members of your parliamentary club belonging to national minorities, because you should admit that you are aware of the seriousness of violating the rights of members of national minorities to public information, especially through electronic media. This is another proof for us that the Democratic Party and G17 plus count on members of national minorities only when elections are held, and when some issues are resolved important to them, then members of national minorities are not important at all. Here's a chance to prove the opposite and put this bill to the vote, i.e. to put it on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6756	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, MP Rajko Djuric, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6757	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 27 and Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of Mr. President's National Assembly, the session of this Parliament is held in this hall, Belgrade, whose mayor passed away a few days ago and I think it is time for MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pay their respects to the late mayor, as well as to Mr. Milan Jelic, President of Republika Srpska, as Serbia has special ties with her. Maybe I was a few minutes late, so I missed it. One more thing, Mr. President, I'm asking you for an explanation and a notice. At a session on September 12th this year, you promised that the first next session would be the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. It's nice that you're proposing to pass this many laws, but I don't see that the choice of judges is on the agenda of today's session. I remind you, Mr. President, that this is a flagrant violation of the constitutional law. The assembly was established on February 14th and that, after nearly eight months, Serbia still does not have a Constitutional Court. We've got an election call coming up. There is no defence law on the agenda, on the military, on foreign affairs, on security services, laws governing the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which should precede the vote. Mr. President, one more question. For two years now, there has been a proposal for a law on refugees in the Assembly. It is not right for individuals, or individual humanitarian organisations, to deal with these matters, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have an MP's office where I receive citizens, 30 or 40 people every Saturday. I've heard from several refugees with the same theme, with the same questions about their rather sad status. I was approached by Mr. Gjorge Milak, who showed me fraternities, that, for example, in Ub, or Ub, there was a building with 45 apartments that were distributed in 2000, but they never gave people the keys. They've already got their parquet, they're growing weeds. I spoke to Rasim Ljajic and the man promised to intervene. It is the same situation with 62 apartments in Belgrade that were distributed in 2004, but those who received them are not yet in a position to enter them. I think it's time for the refugee law to be found on the agenda of this House for the sake of a definitive arrangement of their status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6758	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Đuric reported and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6759	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported about Article 226, and the occasion is that newspapers announced yesterday that, following the ban on the March of the National Machine in Novi Sad, the Face organization announced that their members would be walking the streets of Novi Sad on Sunday, October 7th. I add to the statements by Mr Nenada Canka and Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic - people without face put Serbia once again on the pillar of shame and, unfortunately, and shame, inform our European and world public that they are followers of neo-Nazi ideas and programs, because, I remind you, on 7 October 1900, the second son of Gerhard Himmler - Heinrich Himmler, the "Blood Dog" of Europe was born. That killer was responsible for the murder of 20 million Poles, Russians, Jews and Roma, the creator of all concentration camps. In addition, on 7 October 1939, he was appointed by Hitler as Commissioner of Reich to join Poland's Nazi Germany. One of the survivors, as a Holocaust victim, a prisoner in Switzerland, said, quote: "The depth of the thoughts and the width of the soul of the Nazis can only be measured precisely by a bullet." I don't have anything to add. In the name of the historical truth about the Holocaust, whose guarantee is, so to speak, the UN, the human and democratic rights in our country, I call upon the authorities to take the most effective measure against Hitler's pokot, which counts for themselves, for their associates and followers to benefit and profit on the basis of the principle of "Auswick Economics", on the basis of Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I expect the attorney general to take immediate and unforgivable measures imposed by our laws, so the Justice Department is on the move. If that doesn't happen, I'm afraid, we can all lose our cheeks, and our country, whose reputation is constantly crumbling, gets into an even harder situation. To remove the possibility of speculation and poverty, I remind our public -- it is true that the President of Russia, Mr Putin, was also born on October 7th. His father Vladimir was a KGB officer, a brave anti-fascism fighter, and his grandfather, Spirdon Putin, was a revolutionary...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6760	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6761	... Personal chef Lenin and Stalin. I'm finishing my speech, Mr. President, in words that are appropriate to this subject-- death to fascism, freedom to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6762	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic and then MP Balint Pastor appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6763	Mr. Dulic, unlike my predecessors, I think you're under obligation, after what I say you hear, and as far as hurting the Rules of Procedure is concerned, to answer, well, if I'm not satisfied with your answer, and I'm going to say it right now, then you're going to put it on the vote in the voting day to determine whether you hurt the Rules of Procedure. What's this about? There is a member of the 90th Rules of Procedure who regulates the agenda of the National Assembly. However, in addition to the Constitution, we have the Constitutional Law, and in the Constitutional Law, to remind you of the numbering of the members, we have Article 5, Article 6, and I will take an example of this presentation, Article 9. Article 9 regulates the choice of Judges of the Constitutional Court and the adoption of laws to regulate the decision-making procedure in the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of the Constitutional Court's decisions. I must draw attention to the fact that at least three more points of the agenda that you put on the agenda of this session are, in a way, concerning the Constitutional Court, the law and the body themselves. How could the government undo a general act of local self-government, and for that you are fighting at the next item of the agenda, when the government has five days to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court? Where is this constitutional court to be brought to trial? Mr. Dulic, the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is precise and clear in these provisions, I do not want to quote them, because the public is already familiar, we all know what this is about. You, Mr. Dulic, know very well what this is about, so I invite you to answer why you have been constantly breaking the Constitution and constitutional law since day one? Who authorized you to violate him? Is it possible that because of the incapacitated government and because the government can't disintegrate without entering someone else's advent, the whole state suffers? Why didn't you put into the agenda the points reflecting the obligation of the Constitutional Law? I'm not happy with the answer - I don't have a proposal, she didn't deliver the government to me, etc. That's not an answer. Such an answer is merely a confession of impotence. I must remind you that, probably, 99% of the MPs in this National Assembly voted in favour of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Is it possible that it no longer binds anyone? If you don't respect the Constitution, constitutional law, if that's what the Government does, if that's what the President of the Republic does, how can you call someone on the street who doesn't respect the Constitution? Where's your moral right? So don't give me an answer -- I don't have a proposal from an official promoter, because that's not an answer. Answer, why didn't you put into the agenda the points you're bound by the Constitutional Law? Since the fact that you didn't classify them, you've done a violation of the Rules of Procedure which, in the end, should result in a result and your resolution, because this can no longer be tolerated. You've been breaking the Constitution every day for six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6764	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Of course, my answer would be the way you said it was Article 9. The constitutional law, in paragraph 4, provides that the law governing the constitutional court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions, shall be adopted by the National Assembly at the sitting where judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. These points are not on the agenda because the government did not put them in the congregation procedure, so I could not even schedule a session with such a agenda. I agree with you that there is a problem in respecting the constitutional law by various state bodies. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Balint Pastor appeared, and then the People's MP, Vukic Alexander. Are you satisfied with the answer, Mr. Krassic? You're not satisfied, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6765	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President has violated Article 90 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask the Honorable President of the National Assembly to listen to me because Mr. Vargu did not listen, and I will talk about similar things. Article 90 was violated because it stipulates that MPs can propose amendments and additions to the proposed agenda in writing. On 19 June, the MPs of the SVM proposed to the National Assembly to decide at the next session on the urgent procedure on the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting. The essence of the proposal is that media broadcasting programmes in the languages of national minorities are exempted from privatisation, from mandatory privatisation. At that time, Mr President said it is not possible to extend the agenda at an extraordinary session, but our proposal will be in front of MPs at the first session of the regular session, that is, today. The promise was repeated by President Dulic to me in early July, just as he reiterated it last week, at consultations by the heads of parliament. The written proposal for the extension of the agenda has existed since 19 June, so it can't be explained to the MPs that our draft law is not because we have not given a timely proposal to expand the agenda. I really don't understand why this legislative proposal wasn't in front of the MPs. Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, for injuring the dignity of the National Assembly. I hope, President, that you do not think that this assembly should serve only as a voting machine and that the opposition's proposals cannot come to the agenda. We have 32 points here and I really, really don't understand why this bill wasn't in front of the MPs. The Republic of Serbia, otherwise, has an international obligation since 2004 to amend the Law on Broadcasting, in a way that the media in the languages of national minorities is exempt from privatisation. That's not what the Serbian government has proposed for three years. We proposed on June 19th, and we think this solution is the only solution systemically, to preserve the acquired rights of national minorities to information in the native language. I ask you, Mr. President, once again, to put this proposal to the vote, to see who is in favour of putting this bill on the agenda and then, in the debate, to see who is to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6766	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic, then Rajko Baralic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, we have tried on several occasions, as MPs of the SRS and the opposition, to point out to you that some of the most important issues, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, should be on the agenda, and some should be on the agenda because of good customs, the importance of the subject itself, the social relations, but also the public interest, too, to be on the agenda. We had your promises that it would be on the agenda soon enough, and there was nothing left of that promise but dead letters on paper. In fact, I'll remind you that just 21 days ago, we talked in a similar way, and I asked you more than I asked that there finally be a report on the work of the Energy Mafia Committee and the banking-financial affairs that followed the work and engagement of that mafia. I was promised, you yourself said, that you would do everything in your power to put that report on the agenda at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That report is not on the agenda again, although it was adopted by a majority of votes. I will remind you, therefore, there were representatives of the DSS, G17 plus and the SPS, the two MPs were against it, that was your colleague and representative of the SRS, and we singled out our opinions and submitted our report, which is diametrically different from that report submitted by the majority representatives. May I have your attention, please? So, I would ask you to put on the agenda to talk about what was going on against Serbia, against its citizens, what did those who robbed its property and tens of millions of euros, not to say hundreds, that I might not be exaggerating. To explain to us someone, Mr. Dulic, why the prosecution returned criminal charges filed against certain persons, why the prosecution did not have enough evidence, although they have reports from individual ministries, which in a clear and decadent way, made it clear to the public that the property of the Republic of Serbia was robbed. Not even the reports of those ministries, even though one of your ministries, Mr. Dulic, would remind you of the Ministry of Kori Udovici at the time, apparently, were not enough evidence for the prosecution to initiate any procedure. But that's why it's enough for the D.A.'s office to run whatever actions they want, completely anti-legal, I'd say, politically-mounted actions, against people they don't like, just because they think they've ever helped General Mladic, for absolutely ideological reasons, and the biggest robbers leave at large so they can do what they want. I would ask you to start this debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe it is of great interest to all citizens of Serbia, because I am quite sure that all Serbian citizens would like to hear and see where their money went, and we could spend that great amount of money to build schools, to build hospitals, to buy computers, and in every class of our primary and secondary school, so that every child of ours could get better education. We didn't do all that. I'd like an answer to that question. It is good that you said today, Mr. Dulic, the answer to Mr. Krasic - that it is the government of Serbia that broke the Constitutional Law, and it is good that you never speak to us again about who adheres to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. If the government of Serbia, as the highest authority of the executive authority, that is, the work of the executive authority, since we have a buffalo executive power, thus destroys and violates the Constitutional Law, this must be fully clear to the entire public. I would further point out one fact, I end quickly, Mr. President, I'm sure you'll have an understanding, since I've lost at least a minute of my time because of the indiscipline of the DS MPs. So, in recent days, there has been a fierce campaign against the SRS in certain media and there, of course, is preceded by anti-Serbian criminal and thieving TV B92. I didn't say this as some syntagma, just to be said -- criminal and thieving, but I mean in the right sense, because they robbed Serbian citizens for at least 10.5 or 11m euros to rent the building and contract that the NBS signed with the building. I would ask the citizens of Serbia just to calculate how many new schools, new production facilities we could run, how many more worked fields we would have, how less hungry there would have been, if it hadn't been for the robbery of those 11m euros, and I can't even calculate in dinars how many millions or billions that were robbed by B92. So, this robbery house dared to say in favor, called "Near and far," comparing the Indji and Old Paz municipalities, i.e. that in the worst possible way, he characterized the radical power of Old Paz, with false data. I owe this to the citizens of Serbia to tell you. So the Municipality of Stara Paz has doubled investments, so five times the investment in the municipality of Stara Paz, from the moment the Serbian Radical Party is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6768	Mr. Wolfie, please bring the end. You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6769	I beg you, all the time from the front row, I prayed, I was very patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6770	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6771	You pick up the business, he throws Mr. Milivojevic all the time. Mrs. Kolundji, what you're saying is a notorious lie. I've been standing and watching, even getting people from other benches to break up, even your MPs are getting him to break up. It's not worth it to you, man. So five times more investment in the Municipality of Stara Paz than when it was so-called. Democratic power. Why is Srdjan Komazec guilty? The only reason he's guilty is because you say Austrian investment, Austrian investment from Novi Pazar. I don't mind investing in New Market, okay, and Tutina, everything's fine. Don't say it's Austrian. That's what this is about. Let me tell you, you know what the problem of Srđe Komazec from the Serbian Radical Party is? For refusing to take bribes, for refusing to receive hundreds of thousands of euros, which we refused to receive huge money, to work against the law. Then they went on a campaign against an honest man. It's their fault he won't take the money, and then the gang, who took the money from the campaign, says it's bad for a community like this or something. I told this story for the citizens of Serbia, so people know what it's about and what robbers are like, liars, when these robbers reach and start talking, I don't know if it's G17 or who.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6772	Mr. Wolf, it ends, third time, third minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6773	I'm done. Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out to you the fact that you can run campaigns in various ways. You've been making up stuff about Serbian Radical Party MPs, our presidential candidates, people who represent ideas and a programme of Serbian radicals, but don't organize a campaign against those people who are guilty just because they won't take a big bribe. This is the way Serbia should be, that people do not take bribes, but work in the interests of citizens, work in the interests of their people and their countries. You praise them like that, and don't embarrass them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6774	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6775	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have reported on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, and on Article 135. I submitted to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 135, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law to the seat of courts and amendments to the Law on Public Procurement. First of all, somewhere in April, and this is about public procurement, two months ago. I know that the deadlines for the inclusion of an act rest when it is not a regular session, but I simply want to remind you, not to forget, that the subject of the amendment and addition of the Court's Court's Law refers to the fact that for the area covered by today's district courts of Užice and Cačak, Cačak becomes the seat of the Court of Appeal. The government has given its opinion in this regard, it is against, but it is possible that my argument will be such that the MPs accept that this happens. I therefore ask the President of the National Assembly to have this in mind, given that a number of people, first of all, lawyers, in Chačka, publicly declare that MPs do not care about anything, etc. I now warn them that they take care of how they vote, therefore, the MPs they voted for, mainly do not deal with these issues. The second question is also important. At one meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, it was found that because the Law on Public Procurement has a defect, it was not possible in a process faster than six months to obtain funds for the control of city clouds, so anti-urban missiles as explosives, and that the damage to Serbia in this year was about 30m euros. On the next day after that session of the Committee, I sent to the National Assembly a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, with the intention of exempting anti-building missiles from public procurement procedures, both in restrictive and in another procedure, and to enable the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, entrusted with the work of anti-urban protection in Serbia, that these and other means, necessary for the management of elementary disasters, can be obtained as soon as the need is indicated. So, Mr. President, please keep that in mind, if we didn't wait for the next agricultural season, first of all, spring, and we didn't solve this issue, because I have to say, then that would be a malicious explanation. From the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, we have a proposal for a legal tool that can help. I ask the MPs to support both amendments to the law when they are placed on the agenda. If this is not at the next session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will suggest 24 hours earlier that it be placed on the agenda. I ask fellow Members of Parliament to support me in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6776	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Marton called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6777	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I appeal to Article 226. We are witnessing everything that happened last week in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, when MP Marko Jaksic spoke offensively about a nation in Serbia. After that, at a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly on Wednesday, it happened in an even more ugly way. The Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina asked the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia on Wednesday to sanction MP Marko Jaksic, and I am now calling for Article 226 and to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the DSS, Vojislav Kostunica, since he is the party head of MP Marko Jaksic, when will Mr Marko Jaksic be sanctioned and when will his mandate be taken away, because he has thus disgraced all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the whole country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6778	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mika Vlaovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, after a long time, seeking word of violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have come to order. If I were a national minority, I'd say there's been discrimination against me, like this, I think it's discrimination against farmers by the president. This year, the workless woman in the farmer made a large number of farmers go in exchange for artificial fertilisers and soyaran seeds and oils that process the sunflower. The price of sunflower was 175 euros per tonne; it was taken 140 kg for 100 kg, three fifteens, and that was somewhere normal, and the price and interest on artificial fertilizer for seven - eight months, how long the production cycle lasted. What happened in the meantime? Soya, which cost 175 euros, has been traded for an artificial 130kg fertilizer. The sunflower has raised to 400 euros per tonne and soy to 350 euros per tonne. So 100 kg, three times 15, instead of 2,400, how much would a farmer pay with interest on oil and soyarams, pay 4,000, thousand and five-six hundred more for every kilogram of wheat. In addition to our eyes, there was a robbery of great proportions. In addition to robbing farmers, who have put their signatures on such a contract, looting and Serbian citizens. The price of oil, margarine and all products derived from soy and sunflowers has been accumulated, thanks to the 400 euros worth of sunflowers and a ton of soy juice of 350 euros. However, the oil and soybeans bought very little at that price, in exchange for last year's price, plus 1,500 more per 100kg of wheat, so they rob both farmers and citizens of Serbia, and we are here discussing less important things and we don't mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6780	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6781	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Mr. President, and the Honorable Presidency, I call for a breach of Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Vojvodjan Group of MPs submitted to the National Assembly a bill banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. He was admitted to the office by this law, but he didn't get into the agenda. The reason why we asked for this is the Internal Affairs Ministry Report on the existence of extremist organisations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is mentioned a series of organizations, by the organisation "National Machine", "Blood and Honor", "Rasni Nationalists", "The Face", "The Movement 64 County", etc., which, at the request of the Vojvodina Assembly, was delivered to the Vojvodina Assembly in November 2005, and discussed it on 6 December 2005. In addition to clearly isolated characteristic events, cited by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia for the functioning of these groups, I propose the following steps. First of all, all the departments of the interior are ordered measures to record the activities and take legal measures related to the operation of informal social groups – “Skins”, “National Machine”, “Bloods and Honors” and others, with the obligation to report urgently to the Ministry. Also, timely action of preventive and repressive measures under the law has been ordered, as well as full co-operation with the prosecution. I repeat, preventive and repressive measures. Second, an order has been issued to educate special operating bodies at Ministry level to treat non-formal social groups and preventative monitoring of their activities, etc. I'm saying this for the next one. I think that the misbehavior and underestimation of the activities of the Nazi and clerofastic groups, absolutely, leads to an intensification of confrontations on Serbia's territory, and that is not in anyone's interest. I think that is precisely why this law banning manifestations of fascist or non-fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi and fascist symbols and markings is extremely important for Serbia at the moment, and that it must be debated and detained by urgent procedure. If we do not have a clear relationship with neo-Nazi groups as soon as possible, which are hiding behind the symbols and signs of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, and if we do not clearly distance ourselves from the clerofastic organisations, which abuse the religious sense of Orthodox and not only Orthodox religion in Serbia, we will be in a position to destroy, without any punishment, the entire national heritage of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, and the Serbian people at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6782	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, then Nada Kolundžić, Aleksandar Vucic, Srdjan Sajn and Laslo Varga. Then I hope we're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6783	Mr. Dulic, it's a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure, and it also applies to what I just said in Rule 90. I could have assumed what kind of answer you would give when it came to fulfilling the obligation of the National Assembly on constitutional law. I expected, Mr. Dulic, a slightly more intelligent response and a more intelligent reaction. I'm not happy with your answer, and it would be good if you took this stenogram later and studied well and understood what I wanted to tell you. Mr. Dulic, you have an obligation to place, among other things, two points, in the invitation to this session when you call the National Assembly. I can't tell you exactly how this agenda should be and what the title should be, but one, surely, must be - the choice of the Constitutional Court judges, and the other should be - the law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, the procedure and the legal importance of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The fact that there is no bill, that there is no, perhaps, proposal, and I know that there is a motion to elect judges of the Constitutional Court, is a question which MPs will solve here. I'm telling you, if you put those two points on the agenda, no one will call you because there's no proposal for an act. Why? You have fulfilled your obligation under the Constitutional Law, and then we will in the debate see who is responsible and why the Constitutional Court is not respected, or constitutional law. Why do I tell you this? Because you rule out your responsibility. And you respect the Constitutional Law, and the National Assembly respects the Constitutional Law, and in one debate we will define who is he who is obstructing the state. Those who can't agree on Mike, Djoke, Laza, or can't agree on what the Constitutional Court law should look like, they'll always treat it as their own front and the procedure, but, after a debate we'd call them in, that they're guilty, they shouldn't behave like that anymore. The very fact that you didn't put it on the agenda, or the paper you call the National Assembly session, you, Mr. Dulic, are cooperating with them. I'll tell you right now, if you'd done it in the first session, I'd see what MP group would have come out here to say, there are no conditions for it to be in the agenda. Then the parliamentary group would share responsibility with that part of the executive authority that they support in the National Assembly. Why is all this necessary? So there's no harm in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is a legislative body. We make laws, we choose. All those who block us have blocked the state, the constitution, the constitutional law. Read the stenogram nicely, so understand what I was going to say and make sure that at the first next session you put into the agenda these two points of the agenda, whether there are or not papers that have to be present, so that in one debate we can conclude, all together, here, whether we have a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6784	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Nada Kolundzija, then the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6785	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for reporting and calling for article 101. The Rules of Procedure, but simply, I feel a commitment to the people who sit here and very often listen to the most terrible insults, the untruths, the topics that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda, and we really do, with a lot of patience and a lot of tolerance. I'm reacting because Mr. Wolf said something that isn't true. So he accused DS MPs of being thrown at him, which is really not true, and I'd be praying, simply, to the public for what it's supposed to be, and doing, because it needs to be shown to someone bad, not to do it. Because if we want the Assembly to work with respect for opinions, respect for objective criticism, respect for suggestions, what we are truly prepared to do, then I pray that we do not serve anything that is incorrect, nor is it fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6786	Here you go. The People's Messenger Alexander Vucic, and Laszlo Varga, and Shin Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll only have two sentences to respond to Nadia Kolundjia. I don't think it's the most terrible crime and it should be the topic of debate whether Mr. Milivojevic throws it to me or you, which he does from the first bench. I've really been distracted, and I haven't used any insults, not a single word, I haven't said any inaccuracies, and Mr. Dulic noticed that, so if he wants to be correct, let him say whether I'm telling the truth or lying. I'm sure that's what the citizens of Serbia noticed, and certainly something I didn't say earlier, so for these lies about Old Paz and Indjia, you'd have a precise picture. Old Paz spends seven times more industrial power than Indji's. So much for success, the production capacity that rises in the territory of one and the other municipalities. One more thing, unemployment and the number of employees. Old Paz has far more inhabitants than India. We hope that soon there will be a change of government in India, where radicals have a tremendously strong foothold, but Stara Pazova has many more inhabitants, and, in absolute numbers, much less unemployed. I'm sorry, I think that says a lot about the success of the radical president of the municipality and the democratic president of the municipality. So here today there have been a few false and difficult words. I'd have to ask the MPs to avoid these difficult words, I didn't get it in my first presentation. It's not good, when you talk about someone, to talk to them in a word, like, say the hardest possible words and there's no evidence. To be absolutely clear, the Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against any kind of ideology that connects in any way to the Nazism, fascism or any other totalitarian movement, but it is not good to beat up other types of totalitarians, who will turn the truth and represent the public as it suits her and how she wants it, so they, these other types of totalitarians, came up with Himmler's birthday themselves. I haven't heard anyone say it, maybe I'm wrong, but I've seen Faruk Hadjibegic's birthday, and tomorrow is my father's birthday, so maybe someone else was born tomorrow. It's my father's fault that the Nazis killed everyone in his family, from his father, his grandfather, his uncles, his brothers, everyone else, so maybe he's guilty of something like that. Maybe it's someone's birthday, I don't know, who knows what you'll think of. As for the organisations banned, I came up with documents, information and official reports, and in that official report I saw something else. In fact, the democratic movement and these thieving and criminal televisions convinced us that these were wonderful movements and that it was a wonderful celebration held in 2005 at the Nepker Hall in Subotica. It's the Hongweeds of World War II. They told us that it was the magnificent people, the ordinary Hungarians, who gathered, and, behold, in this particular report the police gave, they said that the Honvedi are an informal social group, which means voluntary and forced-mobilized citizens from the Vojvodina area in the ranks of the Hungarian fascist army. So, those who killed all Serbs and all patriots, all who fought Fascism in World War II, threw them under ice in Tisa and Vienna. The worst crimes they've ever committed. They gathered together and it was a wonderful democratic organisation and event. Here they are on the list of racist, clerofastic organizations, and we have your democratic media drawing how wonderful it is. On the Internet...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6788	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6789	... Now it's time, Mr. Dulic, you've just found the time. ... And on the website, by the way, I read the "Face" movement that they advocate the rehabilitation of Vladika Nikola Velimirovic. I don't know what's controversial about most of them who read the works of Nikola Velimirovic. I don't know what's controversial about wanting to talk about writing with Cyrillic, "Every Serb is Radovan", or what's criminally in Petric in 1942, and in 2003. That's when the pope appeared in the monastery, i.e. in a monastery where the most terrible massacre of Serbs was committed. So if they have something, I don't want to represent them in any way or defend them, because we have nothing to do with that movement, as with any other movement, but simply, I'd like you to point out to me those fascist elements, if there are any, or not to spread that kind of impatience among Serbian citizens, because that certainly won't do anyone any good, especially not let go of the poles. Because the fliers and poles that anyone would use are evidence, I would say, of that kind of totalitarian nature, not democratic. The Serbian Radical Party is for us here to solve with all peaceful methods, dialogue, to talk about everything, but to think about the future of our children. If there's anything wrong with them, let's watch how we change them, how do we fix them, not call them acave, as some do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6790	According to the Rules of Procedure, Lasslo Varga reported, then Shin Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6791	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In fact, Mr. Pastor and I asked the President of the Assembly half an hour ago to explain why the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting did not take place on the agenda, or why it was not put to the vote to extend the agenda of this law. This time I would like to repeat the question and ask again why, President, you did not put the motion to vote to extend the agenda and when will you do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6792	The bill that you have submitted, which is in accordance with Rule 90 of this Rules of Procedure, will be at one of the next sessions. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6793	I refer to Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. I just want to inform the public and members of the Roma national community about two things that have been done in Serbia. After our, indeed, parliamentary struggles in this House, two things that are very important. One is that, with the support of the SRS's proposal, the Roma Integration Sub-Committee was formed in Parliament, and the other -- that, with the aim of the Minister for State Administration, it was agreed that 17 or 24, however, would be an extraordinary election for the Roma National Council. This is proof that voters who voted for the Roma Party have indeed chosen someone who can represent their interests here and constructively negotiate with all representatives of Parliament. What does that mean for the Roma national community? For the Roma National Community, this means that, as in Vojvodina, where the Roma Party has done certain things and provided, in the Roma Integration Council, a million euros in scholarships to high school students, we will be in a position to do so now for all of Serbia. Because, let me remind you, since February of this year, a European Educational Fund project, the institution of which was the National Council, which was assisted by certain structures in state services, which were, by the way, the signatories of that jury account. It was a project worth about 300,000 euros, which was supposed to turn into a project worth over a million euros. But he's blocked. In this way, these elections and the creation of parliamentary control in the Serbian Parliament create opportunities for this good practice from Vojvodina to move across Serbia and that next year we can really say that we have provided scholarships to all high school students in Serbia, as we did in Vojvodina. One more comment. I agree with fellow MPs who are for a clear explanation of who are representatives of Nazism and for them to be convicted. They have to be brought to justice and we have to deal with these people in a very clear and concrete way. They are not only a danger to minorities, they are a danger to the Serbian people, they are a danger to all citizens of Serbia and I will set an example in this direction. The Serbian Orthodox Church is being built in Kovacica. A week ago, after laying the cross in a place where the church would be built, on two occasions, it was, first, just a broken wooden monument, and in the next two days, it was simply cut, torn, and disappeared from the scene. Since I am on the Committee for the Construction of the Church, I then and here call on representatives of all political parties to transfer to their headquarters in the Kovačica municipality to refrain from trying to use the case for certain political accounts, to lower their tensions and insist on the SUP to define who these individuals are, to keep these individuals fit, and to leave the citizens of the Kovačica municipality, where Slovaks, Hungarians, Romanians, Roma, representatives of other national minorities, and, of course, members of the majority people, Serbs, to leave them alone, to live in good relations, as they have lived so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6794	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balint Pastor called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the second time I've had to report to the Rules of Procedure, but Article 92 has been broken. Rules of Procedure, which says: 'The National Assembly shall decide, in particular, on any proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda. On the agenda in general, the National Assembly decides without a search.' Mr. President, we cannot be pleased with your response that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, which the Members of the SVM submitted on 19 June, will be held at one of the next sessions, as the Rules of Procedure is clear. When it comes to a regular session, each written proposal for the extension of the agenda must be voted. We cannot, for this formal reason, be satisfied with your answer, because your answer is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the other hand, I don't know why we should delay the debate on this proposal for a broadcasting law. I don't understand, because we've heard from the government several times, from the government's representatives, that the National Assembly will pass 44 laws by November, so to speak. European law. These bill proposals are not even in the congregation procedure, and I do not understand how we will adopt these laws by November, when they are not yet in the congregation procedure. When the government is not already doing its job and MPs cannot discuss the proposals of the Government of Serbia, then I ask you, Mr President, to put on the agenda those legislative proposals submitted by the opposition MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in writing. I don't know why we should delay changing the Law on Broadcasting. I understand that the Law on Broadcasting is being implemented, because laws must be implemented, and public calls for privatisation of local media broadcasting programmes in minority languages are being published these days. I understand that this law is being implemented, because it is in the legal power, but in the National Assembly the laws can be changed. It takes the will of the majority, and I ask you, Mr President, to allow this session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, which, I repeat, the MPs submitted on 19 June, in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6796	Just to resolve the question of the bill you've submitted. As we discussed and as I told you earlier, the bill was sent to the government for opinion, but we still haven't received the government's opinion. Given that the legislator is a parliamentary group, when the opinion comes, he will be in the process. Please report to the Rules of Procedure. You can come in all day, I'll say the same answer every time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6797	Your Honor, Mr. President, just one brief notice. Government opinion has arrived and that opinion is negative. Two or three months ago, that opinion came up, so it can't be an obstacle to putting it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6798	Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of Members and Deputy Members of the Republic of Republic of Election Commission You have received a proposal for a decision from the People's Parliament of Hope of the Kolundji. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Do any of the MPs want to talk about this item on the agenda? (No) Before I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision, does the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6799	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest, since we haven't received a consolidated agenda, let's wait, because MPs can't keep up with the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6800	In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled search, to answer you immediately, you will get it during the session, so that we do not wait and stop the session for this. The purified agenda is multiplied. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to a joint principled search of 2-5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS ON THE GOVERNMENT, THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY, THE LAWS ON PAYMENTS OF THE COUNTRY AND OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE LAWS ON COUNTRIES AND OTHER PURPOSES IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Does the proposing representative, Milan Marković, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6801	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the debate here is united, because it is mainly about the harmonisation of these laws with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you'll excuse me, I would like to try very briefly and precisely to explain them to you, or to give you what reasons the government has been leading you to propose these changes and additions and what are the specific changes and additions. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of the laws on amendments and additions to the Government Act is that the regulation and work of the Government and the position of the members of the Government are in line with the new Constitution, which is a necessary assumption for a comprehensive and coherent exercise of constitutional functions, both the Government itself and the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. In the framework of established competences, the Government, in addition, determines and leads politics, while the 1990 Constitution, which was in force at the time of the adoption of the existing Government Act, contained the government's authority to lead but not to establish policy. Therefore, the first amendment refers to the precise fact that the government is both determining and leading the politics of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution also obliges the government to suspend the execution of a general act of the municipality, and thus the city of Belgrade, therefore, units of local self-government, which it deems not to agree with the constitution or the law. However, since the adoption of this constitution, the government has no longer been able to suspend the implementation of a general act of the Autonomous Province, so it is in this sense in line with the Constitution's proper provision of the Government Act. A shorter deadline than 15.5 days has been provided for by the government to initiate the procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of the general act of the local self-government unit, by suspending the execution of the act by the government shall cease to be valid unless the government has acted within the prescribed time limit. They are also suspended from execution, according to the Constitution, only general acts, until individual acts can be subject to this act by the Government. On the other hand, it remains, of course, the government's jurisdiction when it comes to general acts in which an autonomous province appears as a public authority holder. I'd beg if we didn't interfere in any further discussion. The draft law adopts a constitutional rule that insists on the personal separation of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, in the sense that a member of the Government cannot, as so far, be a national MP, an MP in the Parliament of the AP and a council member in the local self-government unit assembly, or a member of the Executive Council of the AP and the executive body of the unit of local self-government. This constitutional rule is also complemented by the fact that the bill provides for a government member's obligation to comply with all the regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. Honestly, a lot of this has been clear in practice so far. However, practice has once again shown that there are different interpretations both we and today have, de facto, and here, in the National Assembly, and at other levels of government, an unresolved issue of conflict of jurisdiction. I hope that after the adoption of this bill, we will have a slightly better basis for not having this kind of thing happening to us. Of course, right away I want to say, given the problems that occur in local self-government units, that the new law on local self-government will also, in a special way, clarify the issue of incompatibility of functions. It is also proposed to amend the text of the government's oath, in the sense of declaring the fundamental principle of preamble to the Constitution -- that the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for ending the government's term before the National Assembly's term of office are added another one - a vote of mistrust to the government, which is explicitly foreseen by the Constitution. Since, according to the Constitution, the deadline for the government's election after the constitution of the National Assembly is 90 days, and for the election of a new government in the event of a no-confidence vote or a no-confidence vote - 30 days, it is proposed to delete the provisions by which each new government is elected by the same procedure as the Government after the constitution of the National Assembly. The status of officials, according to the Law on State Servants, were maintained by state secretaries in the ministries and by the Secretary-General of the Government, while other officials, according to earlier regulations, were translated into the official system and in place, following an internal and public competition, in time of 5 years. The proposed amendments to the Law on Government are in line with the Law on Civil Servants, which was adopted after the Government Act, so that the Government, whose term of office has explicitly been suspended, is deprived of the power to place civil servants in office. It is therefore proposed that the government can only appoint state secretaries and secretary-general of the government, whose duties are tied to the minister's duties, namely the Prime Minister, who, otherwise, cannot remain in office after the government has suspended its mandate. The number of MPs who may request a vote on non-trust, from 20 to 60 MPs, is also replaced by the way in which the National Assembly discusses the motion for a vote of no confidence in the Government or members of the Government, including the Prime Minister, the time limit for holding the session, at the earliest 5 days after the proposal, the majority necessary for the decision to vote non-confidential to the Government or to a member of the Government - more than half of all MPs, and how compliance with the Constitution is achieved. The government itself can raise a question of trust before the National Assembly, as the paper provides for in the Constitution and the government’s kind of pressure on the National Assembly to provide it with support and security in further policy-making. It is proposed that the government is not voted in confidence if most of the total number of MPs do not vote in favour of the government. The relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government, concerning the declaration of emergency, is in line with the Constitution, as the emergency situation no longer introduces the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Government, but rather the National Assembly. When the National Assembly is unable to meet, the decision is jointly made by the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. In addition, the new constitution does not authorise the President of the Republic to ask the Government to put forward views on certain issues in the power of the Government, so that the draft law contains a provision relating to the relations of the President of the Republic and the Government, which are based on co-operation and on the rights and duties of a certain Constitution, law and other general acts. In particular, Article 1. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law is a alignment with Article 123(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 2, is a alignment with Article 192(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 3, is a alignment with Article 126(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 4, concerns compliance with Articles 109, 114, 124, 131. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5, is a alignment with the Law on civil servants, which was adopted after the Law on Government, Article 6 is a alignment with Article 30. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 7 with Article 131. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8, with Article 132(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 9, with Article 130(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and Article 10 with Article 133, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So these members further refer to this alignment, the overall systemic coordination that I mentioned earlier. That would be all in my opening statement regarding the Government Act. Of course, for all your questions and suggestions, I stay at my disposal. I would move immediately to the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act. The fundamental change in the Law on State Administration, to be implemented by the bill, concerns the relationship between the authorities of the state administration and the Government with the authorities of autonomous provinces, which is the basic reason for the change of this law. Other amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration have been proposed, with a view to more precise regulation of the system of public administration authorities, in order to start the transformation of the state administration by bringing this area into line with constitutional solutions. Since the new constitution does not allow a member of the Government to be a member of the People's Parliament, which was possible under the 1990 Constitution, there is no need to distinguish this law between a member of the Government and a Secretary of State with regard to the rules of incompatibility and conflict of interest. According to the Constitution, the government is obliged to adopt a decision to suspend the enforcement of only the rules of the public authority holder, on a proposal from the Ministry, and to initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of the rules, which provided for the proposed amendments to the Law on State Administration, as so far the Government could suspend the enforcement and individual acts based on general acts. The government's supervision, according to the Constitution, applies only to decisions by the authorities of autonomous provinces, not, as so far, to other general acts by the authorities of autonomous provinces. This surveillance is preventive, in that it is carried out by the government prior to the entry into force of the decision of the Autonomous Province, under the government's obligation to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality of the decision. The Constitutional Court itself may postpone the entry into force of the disputed decision of the Autonomous Province. As you know, the government has so far been able to suspend the execution and general act of the autonomous province and the individual acts based on this general act. The agreement with the Constitution also took place in that respect that the Autonomous Province Authority, a designated statute, has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the event of a violation of the right of the Autonomous Province, and the Constitutional Court decides to protect the right of the province's autonomy and to decide whether an individual act or the action of the authorities of the state administration or local self-government has violated the right of the Autonomous Province. In particular, the provisions of the Constitution, Article 126, Article 192, 186 and Article 187 are in question again. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to move on to the draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. In the system of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, before the law on civil servants came into force, there was a category of persons who had the status of persons who had been appointed and did not manage an internal unit within the state authority. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Civil Servants, which entered into force on 1 July 2006, their jobs did not become a position, but rather a place of execution, which means that these persons had ceased their status and did not gain the status of persons working in a job becoming a position. The law on salaries of civil servants and deputies does not explicitly determine the coefficient for the remuneration of those persons, so the bill provides for coefficients to be determined according to the eighth paying class of the paying group in which the job is located. With the proposed solution, the working-legislative position of these persons is characterized by the working-legal position of the persons assigned to the executive posts, because they are not placed on the post after the end of the public competition, i.e. they acquire the right to determine their coefficient as well as the civil servant who has been transferred from the post to the execution post. In particular, this situation could probably have been solved by a particular analogy, which, unfortunately, has not been applied, or somewhere, and has not, and this has led to a different approach to this problem. That is why it would be good for the National Assembly to adopt this amendment to the law in order to balance behavior in these situations. With regard to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, the bill aims to regulate the issue of state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia with one law, creating a basis for repealing the Law on State Holidays of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is applied as a law of the former SCG state union in the Republic of Serbia. Putting out of force of the law is necessary, among other things, and because of what we would not do, we would continue to celebrate April 27th - the Day of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The bill provides for the addition of an existing, existing law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, by prescribing New Year's, the Day of Work and the Day of Victory for State Holidays, while determining when holidays are celebrated and how national holidays are celebrated, in case one of the dates is celebrated falls on Sunday. So this would be, hopefully, a sufficiently precise opening statement on these four bill proposals. As you have had the opportunity to hear, therefore, it is about harmonisation, mostly, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to salaries, practically, a little more precise definition of a number of civil servants for which so far there has been no clear system and principle of application of the pay grade. I urge you, after the debate, to adopt these four laws, are simply necessary as a continuation of the reform that we have begun by adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6802	Thank you very much. I inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club is the MP of Vjerica Radet, the DS Parliament Club - MP Vlatko Ratkovic, and the LDP Parliament Club - MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Did the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, set out an opinion on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6803	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to comment on Mr. Secretary's presentation. The minister said earlier that he hoped that his explanation was precise enough. I must say, what Mr. Milan Markovic told us here, we all got as an explanation for the bill. We, Mr. Minister, are written and there is no need for you to read to us what you have already delivered to us in writing. Or, you may not know or have not been aware of exactly what it says here, given that we had these drafts on the agenda in June and that then, on behalf of the Government, these laws were to be explained, is it called the Head of the Legislator's Secretariat, what do you say, Mr. Zoran Balinovac? What we expected from you, Mr. Minister, given the start of today's session, the intervention of MPs with respect to the violations of the Rules of Procedure and the warning of the violation of the Constitution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and the President of Parliament, is that you, as a representative of the Government, will be responsible for the State Administration, especially after the remarks, or after Mr. Dulic's reply that he is not responsible, given that he has not received appropriate proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to explain why you have allowed us, I do not personally think of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, to have Serbia been in an unconstitutional state this long? It's simply inadmissible. And then, when I listen to you earlier as you tell us that these four laws are just for the sake of harmonising with the Constitution, I really don't understand whether you're reading and applying the Constitution from the first to the last member, or the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, or if you're just doing it as much as you need it. That, Mr. Milan Markovic, is irresponsible and irresponsible. You said it was good that it was accepted that these four draft laws were united, that the debate on them should be united. I don't think that's ever good. Whatever the law, however many members have the law, I know, of course, that our Rules of Procedure predicts the possibility of joining into a single debate and I can't say that these laws don't meet that condition, in the sense that they really are similar to the subject, but it's never good to take away the right of MPs to do their jobs, and whenever the agenda points come together, that's exactly what it is. Now you MPs have four times reduced the time to talk about these proposals, and you know well that when it comes to the amendment of the Government Act, or the civil servants, MPs always have something to say. Of course, we never just talk about what is written in these proposals, because, as MPs, we must also talk about the functioning of the government, about both these laws and about the possible abuse of their application. So it's not a good remark to you, and I know that, as a MP in the opposition, you've never supported it, and it wasn't that long ago, the merger of dots. But, well, power does wonders, changes in a man's hour. Several times during your debate, you mentioned that a member of the draft of one of these laws is in line with the Constitution, and then each time you emphasized that it was not so resolved under the 1990 Constitution. I don't know why you have that need, Mr. Markovic. The National Assembly and almost all political parties, almost unanimously adopted the Constitution. So, we agreed on some solutions that needed to be changed from the previous constitution and, indeed, I can tell you that they sound rather foolishly your comments. Now something concrete about each of these laws' proposals. It is not true that these proposals are a mere alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If that were the case, then the MPs of the SRS would have no objections or amendments to these draft laws, and you see, based on the amendments that we have sent you, that it is not exclusively about harmonising with the Constitution. Because when it comes to harmonising with the Constitution, of course we have not made any remarks, and these amendments speak about how seriously and responsibly SRS MPs are doing their job. I hope, Mr. Markovic, that you will accept our amendments, because only by accepting our amendments would you have complete laws. I hope that you have prepared this proposal seriously enough, that we will not have another amendment, given that we are changing this law every year, I am currently talking about the Government Act. We suggested, in Article 4, that the text of the oath be changed. The proposal says that the oath of the members of the government reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and my honour to respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. ''We have changed our proposal for an oath in our amendment, and we propose that the oath reads: ''I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge to unconditionally protect its sovereignty and overall territory, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. I will respect the Constitution and the law, and I will carry out my duties as a member of the Government with security and responsibility. "This amendment is more appropriate and closer to a solution to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are not just talking about the law, or the government that is currently current, we assume that the laws are passed over a long period of time. Believe me, this - I swear by honor, that Dinkic, Djelic, Djilas, Velja Ilic, I do not know, indeed, which of the citizens of Serbia believes in some honor of these people. It is much more responsible and serious that the ministers, members of the government and the Prime Minister are bound by oath to respect the Constitution and the law, not like those who leave their honor elsewhere; those who have it will also have this oath. For those who do not have it, it is irresponsible, the citizens of Serbia will laugh at us when they hear that one of these ministers swears by his own honor, since for those who commit their duties and criminal acts, who engages in the robbery of the people, can certainly not be said to have the honour. We have further proposed, in Article 4, erasing heading 3, and Article 4 refers to Article 16 of the basic law. We do not understand why you deleted what was already contained in the Government Act, and this Article of the 16th Basic Law speaks of the start and termination of the government's mandate. Earlier, it was said that the new government was chosen by the same procedure as the government was chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly. We don't understand why you deleted it. Every time you change the law this way, it's kind of like you're leaving the possibility of some kind of abuse, some kind of law enforcement. You have not convinced us of the logic and legality of this proposal. We have also had changes in Article 5 relating to Article 17 of the basic law, and Article 17 speaks about government and government powers after the government's term of office was terminated. You predicted that the government couldn't during that transitional period, that's the time from calling elections to establishing a new government, putting civil servants in positions. It's okay, but we added that he can't hire new civil servants and tenants. In June, when we talked about this, the government replied that such an amendment could not be accepted because this was not in the government's jurisdiction. That's not true. The government of the Republic of Serbia, I believe, is in charge of individual ministries. This has been abused every time. When elections are discussed, officials from the parties currently in power are always approached, and then we have what we listen to these days, ministers with 50 advisers, 12 state secretaries, once being deputy ministers, etc. We simply think it would be good to adopt this because this is how we avoid this possible abuse. On Article 8, which refers to Article 20 of the basic law, we have also made an observation; we have proposed that Article 2 be deleted, because the proposed solutions opened up the possibility of abuse of the president of the National Assembly, to delay the appointment of a session of the National Assembly for the resignation of the Prime Minister. We don't see why you changed what was in the law -- if the Prime Minister resigns, that the president of the National Assembly is obliged to sit at the next session, and for the longest time in seven days, put it on the agenda. If that wasn't the case, we could have a case like we already had. This also applies to Article 10, where we tell you "resigns" have been replaced by "resigns". These are the amendments stemming from the practice, which came from the behaviour of individual groups in the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is much different from this government. So we all remember those G17 Plus government members' resignations, so they didn't, so it's a good text, so it's not a good text, so it took as long as it suits them. These things, Mr. Minister, must be precise. If someone decides to resign for some reason, and he's the Prime Minister, he doesn't have the right of the National Assembly or the hour to honor, but right away that resignation is being determined and the procedure is still known, that we are not going into it now. In the proposal for a State Administration Act, we have proposed that you be deleted from Article 2. The draft law, and Article 2 refers to Article 57 of the Basic Law on State Administration and speaks about the supervision of the legality of the rules of the public authority holders. You have provided for in this Article 2, and it refers to paragraph 2, where you have deleted these words - if the public authority holder does not act on a proposal from the ministry, it is up to the Government to propose a decision to suspend the enforcement of the rules - and it was in the basic law - and based on individual acts. You've been erasing it. I don't see what your legal basis is for such a thing, because such a solution leaves the possibility of various abuses related to the supervision of the legality of the rules. I will also remind you of a letter that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic wrote in due time about a law to the National Assembly, where it was absolutely against what you have now proposed in this law. Proposal for a bill on salaries of civil servants and deputies. The amendment that we have submitted to this law, Mr. Markovic, I do not know if you have received it, but I warn you that you must accept it, because your proposal to amend Article 1, in fact, included a part of our amendments, because when we talked about the basic law, we warned you exactly about the problems that will take place in the course of the application of this law. Then you disobeyed us, and then we had, and we still have a situation where officials in state authorities with the same expertise have drastically different profits, that it was left to the secretaries or ministers in the government, the secretary of the National Assembly, to put people on certain functions. So you have quite a number of employees today, let's say, in the National Assembly, who have paid more than you, ministers, and from every MP, and their colleagues, with the same expertise, have twice as much pay as they do, and then, in the course of the application of this law, there have been complaints sent to the secretary, and these complaints have been respected, and that is also not disputed. It's a dispute that you've left an unspeakable provision again, because I assume you've been thinking that the relationship with Article 22 of the basic law implies, and we suggest you don't mean anything, but to regulate it precisely by this law. I'll read you a specific amendment. So, we said that since 1 January 2007, the coefficients to civil servants in the executive position, who had the status of non-manufactured persons, have been determined according to the eighth paying grade of the paying group in which their job is located. You put it in your proposal, but not this precise. Look at Article 22 of the basic law, and you'll see, if it isn't written like this, you'll have a problem applying this law. Do not allow any manager to judge who he prefers or dislikes, but rather to make it clear on what kind of solution is being made. Also, I want, for the sake of the public, while we are already on the salaries of civil servants, to note that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could not have done so to the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, so at least they said that it would deliver the amounts of compensation to the presidents and members of the board of directors of public enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with some unmistakable explanation, that the Government only has some cumulative data. It is simply amazing that the government is thus communicating with the National Assembly and that none of the MPs of the congregation speak at all about this. Isn't it scary that the National Assembly has to ask for that information indirectly?- I'm sorry. I'm going to tell you that the government has deceived the National Assembly, because I've asked for a public enterprise, specifically, the amount of earnings and the president of the board of directors and the director of that public enterprise, and I've received an answer from the government. True, I am dissatisfied with that answer, so Mr. Zoran Krasic asked the MUP to examine, because then Jocic was here, the credibility of that data. What I'm saying is, if the government could have a public company to give you the information, then I don't see why it can't be for everyone else, but it deceives the Administrative Board and says - we can't talk about it, gentlemen Members of Parliament, to let you know; it pays in public enterprises and compensations in public enterprises for board members are, apparently, a state secret. So, you can write about everyone else, you can talk about it, and who all the board presidents are, it's published in the Official Messenger. The official messenger is used by lawyers, experts, all those who need it in the business, and, as publicly as it is, in some ways for the people, for the citizens of Serbia, the data that does not exist in the public. Indeed, it would be interesting, our representatives and chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Todorovic, will certainly insist on this data and we will get to know the public about it. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I can see I'm way out of time. This is proof that it is not good to combine the discussion of four laws into one item of the agenda. I'll just say, about the State and Other Holiday Act, one or two sentences. It's true that what you suggested to us from the government, Mr. Minister, is mostly a alignment with the fact that it is with the Constitution. We don't have any new holidays, what we've celebrated as holidays before, remains under this law. We haven't intervened in amendment, and we've been thinking, it would be good, since we're celebrating Victory Day, if you'd thought about the day of victory after World War I. And that day of victory is supposed to be celebrated in Serbia, but we have to leave something at the time of the law. It would only be good if, as a competent minister, you didn't abuse this law and never, like your colleagues before you, inform your employees that they can join the holidays, make a week's vacation out of two days, so a part of the people who do shift jobs can never use it, and civil servants, officials by local self-government, a key in a lock and a week's work is not done because holidays are joined. It was also supposed to be regulated by law, but I expect that, as a minister, you will not do it in practice. So, Mr. Minister, I'm finishing up Mr. President, just one more sentence, if you accept all the amendments to the SRS, you'll have applicable and serious laws, and if you don't, you won't have any good laws, so we'll soon have the amendments and additions of these laws and, of course, the MPs of the SRS won't vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6804	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6805	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there is a set of legislative projects in front of us, as the National Assembly, to round up the system of state administration and, on the line of constitutional division to legislative, executive and judicial authority, we will manage to edit in one large part this matter concerning the position of government, state services, etc. The Democratic Party will vote for these reasons for this set of proposed laws. I will refer briefly to all four legislative projects, or proposals for the adoption of these laws. The last to pass a law, a reminder, the Law on Government, as well as a set of laws on state administration, on civil servants and on salaries of civil servants and deputies, the National Assembly adopted in 2005. The Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Service Officers, which is later attached to the Law on Salary and Peasants, has been initiated, in practice, by a legislative transformation of the executive, i.e. this part of the executive authority that we are discussing today. It is not the fact that these laws only bring this matter into line with the Constitution of Serbia, but all these proposals, according to the Democratic Party, contain quality and consistent solutions. These three laws make up a compact continent and will enable, surely, the government to work more efficiently and communicate with local self-government, with the Autonomous province, and in particular the communication of the National Assembly and Government. I will also refer briefly to the provisions concerning the Constitutional Court. So Serbia's new constitution sets out deadlines for choosing the first government after the National Assembly's constitution, the deadlines for electing a new government after the first government's term has ended, if the National Assembly's mandate continues. It is prescribed that the government ceases its term of office if she is not given the vote of confidence. The Prime Minister's position has been arranged, and the government has been said to establish and conduct politics. So, here we have the newspaper -- that the government is fortifying, not just running politics. What is a newspaper and what needs to be apostrophe is that the government takes care of the constitutionality and legality of general acts of municipalities and cities. This certainly does not mean reducing the jurisdiction of local self-government and everything we have accepted by adopting the European Charter of Local Self-Government and a series of legislative projects that regulate this area. In all modern democracies and societies with developed parliamentary democracy, there is always the relationship of the so-called ". Central authorities and authorities in the provinces. Therefore, taking care of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of municipalities and cities is one of the important ingenuities of the government, which is proposed by these legal solutions. The government, by the way, may suspend the implementation of a general act of municipalities and cities, when it considers that they are not in agreement with the Constitution and the law, and that within five days, it shall initiate a procedure for assessing constitutionality and legality. Otherwise, the suspension of the general act ceases to apply. The government can suspend only the general acts of the local self-government unit, not the general acts of the province. Since its execution, it cannot suspend individual acts based on general acts whose enforcement has been suspended. What is also important to point out, MPs are familiar with the content of this proposal, but because of the public, citizens, it should also be pointed out that a member of the government can no longer be a national MP at the same time. A member of the Government cannot be an MP in the Assembly of the Region, a council member of the local self-government unit, a member of the Executive Council of the AP, or an executive body of municipalities and cities. A member of the Government shall be subject to regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. This is one of the new qualities offered by this legal project. Given that the preamble of the new constitution declares that the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and the text of the oath is on the line of this definition in the preamble, so that the oath of a member of the government refers to the commitment to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. It is further prescribed that the government to which the term of office has ceased may, until the election of a new government, only carry out the tasks laid down by law. In Article 17 of the 2005 Government Act, Article 17 lays down the tasks that the Government may carry out, by removing a provision from the applicable government law, under which the Government of which the term of office has ceased cannot appoint officials in the bodies of the state administration. It's just the state secretaries in the ministries and the general secretary of government. Instead, it is prescribed that the Government, to which it has suspended its mandate, cannot place state officials, are the Assistant Minister, Secretary of the Ministry; Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director of a Special Organization; Director and Assistant Director of the Authority of Administration; Director, Deputy and Assistant Director of the Government Service, Head of the District. Therefore, the government that has suspended the mandate can only be appointed by the State Secretary and Secretary-General of the Government. Furthermore, what I must stress is that a procedure is prescribed to vote for mistrust to the government. That's what Mr. Minister was talking about, and we support those solutions, but I will remind you that the following solutions have been proposed on the line of these constitutional rules. So, at the request of at least 60 MPs, consider the proposal at the first next session of the assembly, and at the earliest five days after the proposal was submitted, with a vote being made mandatory after the debate on the proposal was concluded. The motion to not trust the government was voted if it voted more than half of all MPs, therefore, qualified majority. A procedure has been developed when the Government can ask the National Assembly to vote in favour of the Government. By failing to vote of confidence, the government ends its term of office. The procedure is, I will remind you, the following: a proposal for a vote of confidence shall be considered at the first next session or at a session that is under way, if the Government submits such a law. The procedure for the resignation of the Prime Minister is also specified, with the Prime Minister resigning to the National Assembly president and at the same time informing the President of the Republic and the public in the Republic of Serbia. A member of the government shall resign to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister shall forward the resignation of a member of the Government to the National Assembly. There are significant changes to the state of emergency, which we hope will never be, but the state of emergency is no longer introduced by the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, but by the National Assembly, that is, if the National Assembly is unable to meet, together it is introduced by the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. This solution, this home, as the highest legislative and representative body of Serbian citizens, has given this authority that has so far been in the power of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic also no longer brings acts during the state of emergency, but does so by a government regulation, with the signing of the President of the Republic, again in case the National Assembly is unable to meet. It also deleted the authority of the President of the Republic to ask the Government to put forward views on certain issues from the government's jurisdiction. So, sublimely, in one sentence, we believe that we have a quality text of this bill. The Democratic Party will vote on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Government. As far as the State Administration Act is concerned, I must say that the new constitution does not directly regulate the system of state administration. He predicts that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies designated by law, as well as by the state administration's rules of law. The State Administration Act, which was passed in 2005, will remind me, is a solid basis for further professionalisation, depoliticalisation and modernisation of the state administration. The amendments and additions to the Law have just been proposed, to say no formal, compliance with the Constitution, except for one fundamental, essential change, concerning the government's relationship with the government's authority with the authorities of the autonomous province. In the proposal for a law on state administration, firstly, it is deleted, as an excess, to say "that the State Secretary cannot be a MP", since, according to the new constitution, neither a member of the government can be a national MP. Secondly, it is left out the possibility for the Government to propose to suspend the enforcement of an individual act based on a general act, if the holder of a public notice does not act on a proposal from the Ministry on how to comply with the Constitution, law or other general act of the National Assembly and Government. This, I'll remind you, is regulated by Article 2. A bill of law, which lies before us. A member of the 71st was changed, and he was also in line with the Constitution. It means that supervision, or aging, applies only to decisions of the autonomous province and not to other general acts of the AP. The government's surveillance is a preemptive character, until the decision comes into force. The government is only initiating proceedings for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, and the Constitutional Court is making a decision on whether to delay the entry into force of the decision. The same article of the bill also lays down deadlines for action, which are very short because the whole procedure before the Government and the Constitutional Court must be completed before the decision on autonomous province comes into force. I believe that these restrictive deadlines are precisely in the function of realising the jurisdiction of the AP. Article 74 is also amended as well. The State Administration Act. He also agrees with constitutional solutions. It's about guaranteed protection of the right of the province's autonomy. This Article of the Act provides for a constitutional provision under which the body designated by the Statute of the Autonomous Province has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, provided that an individual act or action by a state body or body of a unit of local self-government makes it impossible to exercise the competence of the AP. Given the Democratic Party's commitment to autonomy and all constitutional solutions concerning the jurisdiction of the autonomous province, we will also vote for the proposed changes for this reason. Just a few more sentences about the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. That is what the minister spoke about and spoke to a representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. I will, in short, say that only one new member is added to the Law on the salaries of civil servants, which regulates the fee of civil servants at the executive post. So, not the position, which they had before the Law on civil servants entered into force. Although the provisions of Article 55 may be applied to this category of persons, analoguely. The Law on Salaries, I suppose, was motivated by this, or considered that it was better to resolve these misunderstandings and inequalities in practice by adopting the proposed amendments and additions to the Law. These three laws make for a coherent overall and we believe that the government's work and the government's general service, by adopting these laws, will be much more quality and efficient. Two more sentences, and I don't think I've made time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6806	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6807	As for the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, it is a logical consequence, given that the Republic of Serbia is the Successor of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, in this respect, has taken over the legislation and laws of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. One of the provisions of this law is absolutely pointless on April 27th, such as the Day of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which will no longer be celebrated, but some holidays provided for by this law will remain in that rank, which is the New Year, January 1st and 2nd, the Day of Work - May 1st and 2nd, and the Day of Victory over Fascism, May 9th, which will be celebrated on a working day. I will just remind myself that all the holidays mentioned in the current law on state and other holidays in Serbia will be celebrated in addition to those holidays. Purely, for the sake of citizens and the public, to remind myself that this is the Serbia Statehood Day, February 15th, as well as religious holidays -- the first day of Christmas, January 7th, and the Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, end with the second day of Easter. I will also remind myself that, according to the Labour Act, employees have the right not to work on the days of the following religious holidays: Orthodox people - on the first day of the baptism of glory, Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities - on the first day of Christmas and in the days of Easter holidays, members of the Islamic community - on the first day of Ramadan Bayram and the first day of the Kurban Bayram, and members of the Jewish community - on the first day of Yom Kippur. In the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you, and I end up celebrating the Holy Sava on January 27th, and Vidovdan, June 28th. So the Democratic Party will accept, or vote in favour of all these laws. We also believe that this is one of the steps towards harmonising and harmonising our legal system, not only with the Constitution, but also with the legislation of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6808	I thank MP Vlatko Ratkovic. As regards the Rules of Procedure, there is a People's MP, Verica Radet, and let the MP Laslo Varga prepare for discussion, then Nebojsa Rangelovic, on behalf of the Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a fax arrived at the SRS Parliament Club by Mr Bozidar Peric, chairman of the Gjilana Health Centre Management Board. According to our knowledge, this fax was given to other MP groups. Given that there will be electricity in Shilov for a very short time, Serbian Radical Party MPs are expected to inform the public about what is currently going on at the health center, and I suppose the rest of you will, too. Dear gentlemen, I'll read this, it's a short text. ''I am informing you and asking you to bring this out to the public, in Serbia - on the procedures of the vd. Director of Gjilana Milorad Todorovic Health Centre. ''Otherwise, Gjilana Health Center, I assume you know, covers the entire Kosovo Morality. ''Indeed, Mr. Todorovic does not respect the Serbian Government's decision to appoint a new board of directors and prevents the establishment of the Committee, by boycotting us, from giving us room for work, and has ordered the Secretary of the Health Center not to attend an orderly meeting of the Management Board, so that the secretary did not attend or allow us access to the work documentation. Also, Todorovic does not recognise the government's decision and a new board of directors, saying by the people that the new board has appointed Kosovo's government. Then, he ordered his workers, pressuring them to get kicked out of work, to sign a petition at the Health Centre, and he extended the petition to the Serbian environments of Kosovo's seas, lying to people that it was about taking signatures and the number of ID cards to get help. In any event, he has pressured the members of the Management Board and the members of the Management Board of the Health Centre, and ordered that no one attends a meeting of the Management Board, threatening to suspend them from work. Mr. Todorovic violates the law and does not respect our state, i.e. the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we have information that a member of the board of directors was under a lot of pressure by sending SUP Chief Gjilan to threaten him, so he's very scared and afraid to come to the board meeting. This is really chaos and great fear in people. So I ask you to bring this out to the public and inform the authorities of the state about this. ''As we got this fax, here, I read it, right, in the text in which it was sent, it's amazing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia isn't responding, and it has this information. Namely, the decision to appoint the president and members of the Gjilana Health Centre Management and Supervisory Board, as of 20 September 2007, has just been brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it is it that should take care of the implementation of this solution. Of course, it is clear to you, of course, that there are no members of the SRS among the members of the Management and Supervisory Board and that it is not our motive for us to act and warn the public, but the fact that such things are happening in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and that citizens are being deceived. This gentleman, Milorad Todorovic, otherwise, a member of the DSS, according to the information we have, has a hospital in Ćuprija and usurped TV in Šilov, so that only one can see what is right for him and is also known as Minister of the Government of Bajram Rexhepi in 2001. Such a man allows himself not only to implement decisions by the government of the Republic of Serbia but also to deceive citizens in Shilov, to usurp power throughout Kosovo, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is not responding. This is the way I'm letting the public know, and those citizens waiting to hear this. I hope that the members of the government, here, Mr Markovic does not listen to me, but he can read the stenogram, inform the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Jocic and other competent ministers, Tomica Milosavljevic, Prime Minister, of course, and will allow this board of directors to meet. They tried that two days ago, but that director wouldn't let it, see, they're waiting today and they're trying, but they won't let them enter the premises to start working and implement a solution to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6810	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the People's MP Laslo Varga, and let Pastor Balint and Rangelovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6811	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union are ready to support these four draft laws in case our amendments are accepted. With regard to amendments and additions to the Law on State and Other Holidays, I would like to say that this bill is a harmonisation of the applicable law with a factual state, but, at the same time, it is also an opportunity for us to meet national minorities in one sense. So we proposed one amendment. According to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, national councils of national minorities have the right to establish their national holidays, which are subsequently confirmed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities. However, the law did not regulate the way these holidays were celebrated. We therefore suggested that members of the national minorities be allowed not to work on the days of their holidays, which, as I said, are determined by national councils, confirmed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia for National Minorities, a body which is otherwise made up of resolution ministers and all presidents of the Council of National Minorities. It is a very important fact that this body decides by the majority of the votes of all representatives of the government and by the majority of the votes of all national councils, so it is practically impossible to abuse any of the rights proposed by this amendment. On the other hand, with regard to the State Administration Act, I would like to say that we were prepared to accept the bill only in the event that Articles 2 and 3 were held. The bill is deleted. We believe that prescribing the obligation to the province's authorities to deliver their decisions within 24 hours to the republican ministries puts in a fully subordinate position the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Namely, all the decisions of the Autonomous province are published in the Official Journal of the AP Vojvodina and are thus available to all. The competent ministries also have the opportunity to monitor the official AP Vojvodina Journal, and thus the constitutionality and legality of the Vojvodina authorities' decisions. They have the possibility that, following the publication of these decisions and before their entry into force, the competent ministry will propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia to initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, and the Constitutional Court has the possibility to postpone the entry into force of these decisions until its decision is made. It is quite unclear for us that the Ministry of Justice can propose such a solution, given that the Democratic Party has so far advocated the autonomy of Vojvodina, and this suggests a kind of tutorship over the AP Vojvodina. We could see that, when writing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Democratic Party, in some ways, had deviated from its earlier views on the AP Vojvodina. I don't know if this is a continuation of the change in DS policy on this issue. For us, of course, this solution is not acceptable, so we will only vote in favour of this bill if this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6812	Here you go. National Ambassador Pastor Ballint.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6813	Dear President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the People, I would only like to put forward in a few sentences the views of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities on the proposed laws, i.e. the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. I will try not to repeat what Mr. Varga had just brought before the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. I'm just going to try to underline what I consider most important from his presentation and from the amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duke Hungarians. As for the amendment and addition of the State Administration Act, it is not clear to us, indeed, why Article 3 is regulated in this way. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements states, in the position of the 2nd Autonomous Province Authority, that the decision to deliver to the competent ministry within 24 hours, which is required to propose to the Government, within 48 hours, to initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the decision, if it considers that it is not in conformity with the Constitution or the law. Of course, we agree that the acts should be subject to constitutional control and we do not feel that the acts of the AP Vojvodina authorities should be an exception to constitutional control, but we do not understand why the AP Vojvodina authorities are obliged to deliver the decision to the ministry within 24 hours. As we all know, the AP Vojvodina has its official messenger, the official list, which is "The Official Journal of the AP Vojvodina". The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as other ministries and all authorities of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can be informed of the decisions made by the AP Vojvodina via the "Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia". This is the obligation to deliver their decisions, not even the municipalities, not the cities. I don't know why exactly autonomous provinces, or the AP Vojvodina, should have this obligation. I must also ask why the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers it important to place the authorities of the Autonomous Province under tutorship in such an unequivocal manner, and does not consider it important to adopt income laws and the property of the AP Vojvodina, based on Articles 183 and 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? After his election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dulic pledged that co-operation between the republican and provincial authorities would be better, that he would meet with the president of the Vojvodina Assembly. I don't know if there's been a meeting, but from the spirit of the proposed law, we can't judge that the current government wants to strengthen the autonomy of Vojvodina, but on the contrary, that it wants to put the AP Vojvodina under the tutelage of the Republic of Serbia. We believe this is the kind of proposal for disdaining citizens. Then we don't know why it's necessary for the AP Vojvodina to exist. Of course, it should exist, but it should still have some kind of independence within the Constitution and the law, of course. We therefore do not consider it a good thing that there is this obligation to deliver decisions to the Autonomous Province of the Ministry. Otherwise, I have to notice that this bill had one earlier version of May of the current year, when the ruling coalition was forced to withdraw both the government law and the state administration law. The earlier proposal said that the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina would be obliged to deliver its decisions within 12 hours of their delivery to the ministry. I don't know if the government is seriously thinking, or the Ministry, that instead of 12 hours now 48 hours and 24 hours, it means strengthening the autonomy of the Vojvodina. We have suggested that this article from the bill be deleted. If our amendment is adopted, we will support this bill. I would take advantage of Mr. Markovic's opportunity here to ask him to consider the possibility of changing the boundaries of the administrative districts together. We talked about it in June, when we were at his place, and we said then that the borders of the administrative districts were considered completely anachronic. We don't know which, in 2007, is the reason a Horgos citizen has to travel to Kikinda, that he has to travel more than 100 kilometers to do some administrative work, say, extending his ID card or something. We all know very well what is the reason why, contrary to every logic of geography, say, the municipality of Kanjiž, the municipalities of Sainta or the municipalities of Ada belong to the Northoban County. I don't know if Tise's flow has changed somehow, I don't think it's happened, but we know very well that the reason that Kanjiza, Senta and Ada belong to the Northobanat County was because in the 1990s it was a different electoral system; the entire republic was not one electoral unit and this kind of solution came from the reason that national minorities wouldn't be in the same constituency. Similar problems exist in Sandzak, and it is very clear what was the reason why the borders of the administrative districts were set in the same way in the ancient 1990s. I really don't think that this is good in 2007 and if the Democratic Party seriously means what it said in the election campaign - that it wants to work in the interest of the citizens to live better and to be simpler, I would like to suggest to Mr. Secretary that it organises a public debate, to which experts, lawyers, mayors, or presidents of municipalities, the presidents of the district, and to find some kind of solution that is closer to the citizens, as promised in the election campaign. Everyone who's a lawyer knows there's no need to change the law for this. The borders of the administrative districts are changed by a government regulation and can be done in a very simple way after a public debate. A few more sentences to say about the proposed amendments to the Law on State and Other Holidays. This is about technical harmonisations, but we SVM MPs have taken advantage of the opportunity that this draft law is on the agenda to propose one amendment - that members of national minorities have the right to mark their national holidays confirmed in accordance with the law, and that employees of national minorities have the right not to work in the days of holidays under Article 1. We think that if members of the national minorities make up one third of the population of this country, which is exactly so, then it would be good for the state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to meet national minorities. Namely, as already provided for by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the holidays of national minorities are to be established in accordance with the Law, to propose these holidays to the national councils of minorities, and to be endorsed by the Republic Council for National Minorities, whose president is the prime minister, and those ministers who, in their jurisdiction, have issues of paramount importance to national minorities, e.g. Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Police Minister, Culture Minister, Education Minister, Minister of Faith. We believe that it would be of utmost importance not only to establish these national holidays, but that members of the national minorities could be worthy of marking them. We think it would be very good and it would be an extremely good signal to national minorities that this matter be resolved in the way that this law is done in the event of religious holidays, that national minorities can celebrate their holidays. We do not believe that any abuses would occur, for the reason that these holidays would be confirmed by the Republic Council for National Minorities, in which they are sitting and ministers, so there could be no revote. I think it would be very good for national minorities to celebrate their holidays in a dignified way. I appeal to Mr. Minister for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment to the SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6814	Minister Milan Markovic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6815	I think the debate is going one nice way. I didn't mean to go out during the debate, but finally sublime all the objections, so to answer, but my predecessor made one observation, or I misread it, if so, I apologize in advance, which is that the AP Vojvodina has a different position than the local self-government units, so the government only asks the AP Vojvodina to do something, and local self-government units don't ask for it. I think it would be very bad if the public understood it the way I understood it. Of course, things are completely different. Under the old government law, the government was able to suspend the exercise of a general act of the Autonomous province, and that is to say every general act, not the one it adopts in the exercise of public authority, but any general act from the work of its jurisdiction. It's the same for local self-government units. However, the new constitution and this proposal to amend and supplement no longer allow the Government to suspend the implementation of the General Act of the AP Vojvodina, and it can continue to suspend the implementation of a general act of the units of local self-government, so that the AP Vojvodina is recognised by its right to far more independently adopt general acts than the units of local self-government. Those general acts shall only be subject to an assessment of the constitutionality and legality carried out before the Constitutional Court. Moreover, a very short deadline has been set in which the Government must, 72 hours, initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality and only then can the Constitutional Court suspend such an act of the Autonomous Province. I would ask that you simply don't say it that way, because it would be really very ugly if it turned out that the new constitution hadn't made a move. He made a significant shift compared to the previous constitution. I repeat, the government has no right to suspend the exercise of a general act of autonomous province, except for those who are in public authority, but that is another story. Now you're wondering why it's necessary to let someone know about it. I think the most normal and extremely correct thing to do is to work out this article in 186. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of work surveillance, which is under the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're asking why we don't wait in the government and read it from the official messenger? Because, by the logic of things, some general acts can take effect on the day of publication, and I really don't see that it is so difficult for colleagues in the AP Vojvodina that, when a general act is adopted, they send it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that, within these very short deadlines, if possible, it feels that something is wrong, or that the competent ministry is proposing to the Government to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality. I remind you, it's only 72 hours from the moment of adoption of the act, the deadline for the government. It's, in my opinion, natural and normal and I don't see anything wrong with it. If it's hard for someone to deliver it to the government, it's another topic. I repeat, the AP Vojvodina is fully free and restricted only by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and general acts can be priced exclusively in front of the Constitutional Court. I think that's important here again. I guess my colleague didn't mean for it to turn out that way, but, look, I understood differently, so it would be important if it didn't stay that way in public. One more thing, not the Ministry of Proposer. The Ministry is behind everything that's been suggested here, so we understand each other. We fully support all this that has been proposed here, but I suppose you know the Ministry Act and whose responsibility is to make these regulations that are on the agenda today, so I would ask you that, as a MP and head of Parliament, you have that in mind. You need to know the law if you're doing this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6816	The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP's authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6817	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the LDP, will look back on a few things on the proposed set of laws. It is a logical consequence of the need to comply with the Constitution, of course, it can reopen the debate on what is in the Constitution and what was once put into the general property code for Montenegro, which says, "What is born, time does not correct". And so what the coat of arms was born in the Constitution, by any law, is difficult to correct. In particular, the Constitution obliges us to pass many laws, such as the Law on the National Assembly, which has been the legal point of view of archaism and which has not been implemented in current legislation around the world for a long time. When these laws were first put on the agenda, they spoke of the urgency of their adoption. This is quite understandable, because these are the system laws that need to enable the appropriate application of the Constitution. However, after protesting the LDP and pointing out that Mr Balinovac could not be the government's rapporteur, suddenly this whole set of laws was withdrawn from the assembly procedure, suddenly they were no longer urgent, and only a few months after their proposal, here is the time to hold a debate on them. Finally, regarding compliance with the Constitution, a previous colleague praised as something new and something extraordinary that prevented, these laws, conflict of interest, so the performers of certain functions cannot be performers and other functions. I don't see why it boasts like something awesome, because it's just something that's logical, something that's necessary. Now I'd go to the metrics. Most of all, I'd stick to the government law. As an illustration, I'd just like to apostrophe a few members. First, Article 2, amending and supplementing Article 6. The government law. As my colleague, Verica Radeta, said earlier, I am also prone to the view that this is not just a mere harmonisation of the law with the Constitution, because it is a matter of supervision of the work of the municipality, so a link is sought with Article 192. The Constitution. It is a member who, again, carries with him one generosity and gives the government the right to deal with the protection of constitutionality and legality, only talks about municipalities. Article 6 also mentions cities, the city of Belgrade, so it is not, in my opinion, just harmonising this member with Article 192. The constitution, but also something new and essential, where the congregations of cities are bound in some ways, and the government is given the authority to deal with constitutionality and the legality of city assemblies and decisions made by cities. Then, a member with regard to the initiation of a non-trust procedure with the Government and the vote of no confidence brings one inaccuracy to the Government. It is said: "The proposal of the Members of the People begins to be considered at the first next session of the National Assembly, and at the earliest five days since the proposal was submitted," and this proposal is very correct. But it can be subject to discussion whether legal correctness can be called a solution that increases the number of MPs who can initiate the procedure for not trusting the Government. I would also refer to a member concerning the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, which is a member of 40. The previous text read: "The government proposes to the President of the Republic the introduction of an emergency in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the acts taking steps in an emergency. The government may propose to the President of the Republic during the wartime situation, etc., so that part is deleted. Instead, there is a position that says: "Relations between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are based on co-operation and on the rights and duties laid down in the Constitution, by law and other general acts". Is there a need for this and does the text of the law need to be entered into legal notorities? Of course, the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Government should be based on co-operation, on the rights and duties laid down by law. Why does it have to be in the law, when it's one legal logic and legal necessity? Finally, I would also refer to Article 16, which concerns the start and termination of the government's mandate and which contains an oath by members of the government. The LDP also proposed an amendment when this law was first put into assembly procedure. Therefore, it is necessary to refer to the fact that the text of the oath is not only a form of one solemn act, but the act of taking an oath has both a material and a formal and legal fact, because it is in Article 16. The government law is regulated that the government's mandate runs from taking an oath before the National Assembly. The act of oath also has formal-legal attributes does not mean that the text of the oath should contain the features of political demagogy taken over from the preamble of the Constitution. To remind you, the preamble to the Constitution is a set of intensities, motives and political objectives of the legislator and, as a rule, does not fall within the norm which obliges it to be incorporated into the content of the law. Accordingly, we find it unnecessary to change the text of the oath. Finally, in an attempt to sublime everything I said about this set of laws, I would refer to what my colleague from the Democratic Party said. He spoke of the consolidation of the constitutional principle of power-sharing by adopting this set of laws. I wouldn't agree with that. According to the fact that the constitution gives the government great authority, that the government is engaged in the control of constitutionality and legality, that without the government's consent, no public prosecutor can be appointed in Serbia, it is logical to conclude that the instance - the creation of an all-powerful government, is above the legislative and judicial authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6818	I thank Mr. Rangelovic. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr Balint Pastor. I'm sorry I didn't give you my word earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6819	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, is not my custom to go out for a pay phone for breaking the Rules of Procedure, but this time I had to do it. Mr. Minister has injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which he says, are the People's Messengers who are obliged to address one another with respect. Of course, I know that Mr Milan Markovic is no longer the vice-president of the Assembly and is no longer a National MP, but is the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, but I believe that this provision of the Rules of Procedure should apply to anyone who is in this Chamber during the session. When Minister Markovic came out for a pay phone, I thought he would say something concrete about the amendments submitted by the People's MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and he said that I would need to know some things and know that I know, as a MP and as head, or president of the Parliament group. I don't think it's a good thing the minister, any minister in the government, is speaking to the MPs in that way. Of course I know the Ministry Act, of course I know who can be the legislator of the law and who is the legislator of this law and of course Minister Markovic will not be able to answer some particular question that I will eventually ask if he does not listen to me. I think it is very bad that the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia are speaking to the MPs in this way. Please, Mr. Markovic, don't do this. Of course, I also know that this is a solution that has been proposed to move forward against what has existed so far, but I also think that we could take some bigger steps and that it is not good, to repeat once again, that the authorities of the Autonomous Province are obliged to deliver their decisions to the Ministry within 24 hours. I think everyone should be informed from the official messages, in this case, of the Official Journal of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. How did Mr. Minister ask the question how is it possible that I do not know these things and is it possible, I could ask how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not consider it important to propose, in accordance with the Constitution and under the provisions of the Constitution, the law on the original incomes of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Law on the Property of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6820	I thank Mr. Pastor. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of the MPs, submitted the SRS, LDP, and SPS parliamentary groups. So, a total of 17 speakers. The first is Mr. Srdjan Shin, and let the folk's letter to Mrs. Natasa Micic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6821	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to make a few comments on this law. For us in the Roma Party, for me as a MP, it is acceptable to have certain constitutional categories transposed into law, in order to make the law clearer. However, we have tried our amendments, I have tried to give certain amendments that will be consistent in the direction of what the Constitution defined, to transpose it in the same way into the law, so as not to leave room for that substance in a slightly different way to understand. As an illustration of that, I'm going to ask a question - when is it defined to whom does executive power belong? The Constitution clearly defines who is the holder of the executive authority, that the Government is the holder of the executive authority, not that the Government belongs to executive authority. In that direction, we had several interventions, which I signed as a MP and proposed in the form of amendments. In this way I also speak to the Proposer to accept it, because there really is plenty of room in these amendments and additions to the Government Act that are not exactly in agreement with the Constitution. One of the illustrations is, say, who makes the government. As the constitution says the government is made up of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the law says it is made up of resolute ministers, and only in the second paragraph is it talked about ministers without portfolios. Then the question arises whether the Ministers without portfolios really form a government or the Government can only have, or can only be elected ministers without portfolios? I have proposed an amendment to which this misunderstanding is being cleared and in a different way it is defined. I wouldn't go any further on the similar things that I suggested, I would just define something about the State Administration Act. We all know that Article 21 of the Constitution defines that there is no discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce in order to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. Who can this apply to? It can refer to members of the rural population, it can refer to students who have a slightly different quality of teaching within Serbia than in Belgrade itself, can refer to members of national communities, persons with special needs. We have defined it as a possibility in the Constitution, but in no law have we told who is the authority to carry it out. To be honest, we have the practice of the state authorities implementing this constitutional principle, however, not because they have an explicit basis in the law, but rather because it is an act of goodwill. With our amendment, we have tried to define it, that it has a basis in the law and that, indeed, all state authorities can act with their affirmative measures, whether they grant subsidies to farmers, or they enroll students from rural parts of Serbia in colleges according to affirmative measures, so that they can evenly develop all parts of Serbia, whether they are enrolling Roma, means, in high school, by affirmative measures, to give them one serious legal basis, so that the unbelievers, who wants that moment to abuse, can't say -- well, you know, you prescribe something for which there is no legal basis. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6822	Thank you to MP Srdjan Shin. The word is a folk letter from Mrs. Natasa Micic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6823	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, such as the Government, such as the Bill of Government, that is, how you have brought the Constitution and what is your Constitution, and you respect it today. First, this law is included in the procedure by violating that procedure. First, it does not meet the requirements of Article 83. The Rules of Procedure, because it violates the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Secondly, this law does not qualify to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Namely, the provision of Articles 161 and 162. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that, following an emergency procedure, the law can only be passed exceptionally, because of circumstances that could not be prevented, which would affect the safety of the country or the work of the authorities and organisations. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what prevents this government from doing, so now it was necessary to change the law by an emergency procedure, and not only that, but by violating the Constitutional Law, Article 12, which sets a deadline within which this law can be passed? Nothing but the need for the government to protect itself. The government simply focuses on the mere use and use of power, and therefore a more adequate name for this law would be, for example, the law on the system of power-sharing in favour of the government. For reasons of the adoption of this law, it is stated that it is necessary to bring the Government Act into line with the Constitution. I claim, first of all, that this alignment was done only partially, and especially in favour of those provisions concerning government powers. Namely, the bill did not agree, for example, with Article 99 paragraph 1), which states that the National Assembly is electing, overseeing and resolving the government. In this bill, we have only been clarified ways for the government to choose and resolve itself, and the most important functions of the Assembly, which is to control the government, in this bill we do not have at all. It is also not in line with this bill with Article 124 which, in fact, comes down to the same and says that the government is responsible for the National Assembly. So that's what it's all about getting along, that's what it's all about. It's only partial and selective. Secondly, this bill is not only a violation of the Constitutional Law, I explicitly cited Article 12, which sets the deadline for the adoption and adoption of this law, but also a violation of the Constitution itself, and Article 192, which clearly states that the Government is obliged to suspend from the execution of a general act of the municipality which it considers not to be in agreement with the Constitution or the law. In doing so, there is a chapter VII on territorial organisation, which clearly defines what units local self-government and uses term - units of local self-government every time it wants to point out that some provision applies to municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. In this explanation, it is said -- the new constitution explicitly empowers the government to take care of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the municipalities, that is Article 192, which I read to you, and then, in parentheses, writes -- both the cities and the city of Belgrade. So the government gives itself the right to violate the Constitution, and that provision of Article 192 and its entire seventh head. Mr. Minister, since you weren't here, I just want to tell you that the procedure has been broken. The law is only partially in line with the Constitution, Article 192 has been broken. Constitution, Article 12. Constitutional law and I said at the beginning and I repeat, this bill just shows us what the government is like. So what government, such a proposal, what constitution, such compliance with the Constitution. The Liberal Democratic Party, for the reasons I have stated, will not vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6824	I thank the People's MP, Natasha Micic. The word of the people is Milisav Petronijevic, and let Stefan Zankov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, four laws have been proposed -- government law, state administration, government salaries, civil servants and deputies and national holidays. They talk more about what the government is like than about matter itself. I'm going to illustrate this with two examples. Of course, they also speak of the government’s relationship to the National Assembly, to the public, to the Constitution, to the Constitutional Law, but also to the attitude of the ruling parliamentary majority towards the National Assembly. First, when it comes to government, the government is responsible for the country's unconstitutional state. Today, we finally had the opportunity to hear from the National Assembly president that it was the government that did not provide laws in the procedure of the National Assembly, and therefore cannot implement the Constitutional Law. Finally, it comes across the mouth and the president of the National Assembly. Otherwise, the same government has always assured the public that there is a stalemate in the Assembly, that they have some 44 or how many European laws that stand, and I confirm, I join the President of the National Assembly, stand, but perhaps with them. Secondly, the government is proving to this effect that it respects neither the hierarchy nor the order. Instead of proposing laws implementing the Constitution and constitutional law, as a priority - constitutional court law and everything related to the work of the Constitutional Court, the law on the President of the Republic, the election of the President of the Republic, foreign policy, security, defence, the military, territorialisation of Serbia, local self-government, local elections, capital, courts, prosecutors, and that in this way governs this state, the government is offering four amendments to the law, which I will later say something about. In addition to being in office without credibility and without mutual trust, the Government also shows insufficient competence and poor, arrogant attitude towards the Assembly, and according to the Constitution, and according to the Constitutional Law. Another example. On June 14th, after the withdrawal, the government re-enlisted the procedure for amending and supplementing the Government Act to be considered by an emergency procedure, and it is under review after three and a half months. Nine extraordinary sessions were held, and none were requested by the government of the Republic of Serbia, although it has constitutional right. If it were really urgent, if it were necessary, she would have requested an extraordinary meeting of the Serbian Parliament already on June 15th. I must briefly refer to the attitude of the ruling majority, the parliamentary majority, towards the National Assembly. We have a proposal to merge four points of the agenda. Of course, the President of the Assembly, who is obliged to take care of the Rules of Procedure, accepts that. Of course there is a possibility, in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure, to merge the points, but only in two cases - if they are conditioned to each other and if the solution is linked to each other. I would like someone to explain to me what these conditions are, that is, where these solutions are interrelated to the law on state holidays and the law on civil servants' salaries, or the law on the salaries of civil servants and the law governing the relationship between the state authorities and the AP Vojvodina, so as not to list any further. Obviously, instead of showing that the Assembly is independent, that it is a representative body, that the control body, in which the arguments of all are opposed, is the parliamentary majority applying the argument of force and voting to bring it together. Just a little short on the proposed laws. I will remain brief on the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act. I'll let my colleagues add, they have something to say. First, you saw in the very explanation that the motionary explained the Constitution. It does not state the reasons for changing the Law, but states the reasons why the Constitution should be changed. Then, in only one sentence, it says, certain solutions are in line with the Constitution. That's the reason for changing the law. I'm not so sure. Of course, I do not dispute the need to bring all this into line with the Constitution, but all four points are not harmonising with the Constitution. We do not dispute this need, but we will continue, as the SPS, to insist that, above all, the key laws in Serbia, which I was just talking about, are on the agenda, and only these. If it's just harmonizing with the Constitution, there were examples before, they told their colleagues that I wasn't wasting my time. One interesting detail, which is provided for by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, is to elaborate the provisions of the Constitution that the Government is required to take care of the constitutionality and legality of general acts of municipalities. That's where two questions are asked. So, she takes care of constitutionality and legality, then, within five days, she needs to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. First, I ask -- if that happens now, who is the government going to write to open the constitutionality and legality process, who should do it now, and what is happening here? The acts will continue to function. There is an even worse question than that, the second question -- can anyone who does not respect the constitutionality and legality to take care of constitutionality and legality? That the government does not respect constitutionality, I have just cited examples, because it does not respect the constitutional law which makes it clear what, when and how it should be done and how it should be legal. Here, again, one example. With the law on local self-government and local elections, it is the government that introduces temporary measures in municipalities in Serbia. These temporary measures can take three months. The government illegally maintains such a situation in ten municipalities, in Užica, Smederevo, Babusnica, Zrenjanin, Valjev, Leskovac, Bogatic, Kula, Velika Gradišnica and Smederjevska Palanca. So in ten municipalities are temporary organs, temporary measures. Of which, in five municipalities since last year, and these other five - in this year, the three - month period has already expired. The only thing the government has done successfully is change existing provisional organs in June and implement the principle that they have promoted, the zero principle, so that they have placed DS, DSS-New Serbia and G17 plus everywhere, although in some municipalities some of these parties do not have any councilors. The Constitution, Article 192, says very clearly and precisely - when a temporary body is formed, the relationship that exists in the municipal assembly must be respected, both politically and national. That, in fact, the government shows that it's not law enforcement, and I just said, no constitution. Just for a little while longer, my colleagues would come to terms. We have submitted a large number of amendments and has the opportunity for the minister to consider them and to correct this proposal for a government law. The solutions given are unclear and the possibilities of interpretation are different, starting with the government being obliged to suspend the general acts of the municipalities, with no provision that it is required to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, but has the last member, so if it does not launch it within five days, then, instead of considering it at the first next session, the promoter has offered to - start to consider. What does that mean? He's starting to think? A very clear formulation stands in the Constitution and can be copied. Then, with the government's right to resign, among other things, instead of not being able to appoint officials, which has been so far, it is said -can appoint officials, not just civil servants. What's changed? It is a reduced number of officials, but it still remains an option for functioners to change. It would be interesting, Mr. Minister, when you answer, to give us information on how many state secretarys there are now in this government, how many assistant secretaries, for God's sakes, but it would be important to announce the exact number. I'm going to finish the part that talks about the government's trust, because when we talk about the amendments, I'm going to have a chance to say something else. Of course, the law knows the Institute of Confidence, and that's clear. Distrust is triggered by the opposition. In order to vote no confidence, there must be 126 MPs. The government raises the issue of trust, but it must also provide 126 MPs. Here is a formula that is very discriminatory, when there is debate about it, we will discuss it, because it does not say the way it stands in the Constitution - the government has been voted in confidence if most of the majority of the MPs voted, and everything else is not, but vice versa - the government is not voted if most of the 126 MPs do not vote. So there's still going to be a chance to talk about it. We will not vote for these laws until we see all the amendments, and we will continue to insist that the laws that are important to the citizens of Serbia, which are very important to the lives of Serbian citizens, are on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6826	The People's MP Stefan Zankov has the word, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the minister here was saying that it was a matter of harmonising several laws with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to make a few comments on all of this, given some political practice that we all had the opportunity to see and witness in some previous period. I would like to start by amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is said here that a new constitutional solution gives the government the right to suspend the execution of general acts of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade when it considers that they are not in agreement with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of general acts within five days, etc. He's had a few problems here. The minister praised the fact that the deadline was reduced, but you are free of a deadline when you do not have a Constitutional Court, to whom all this would go to the assessment of the constitutionality, when there is no responsibility, yours, as a minister, and the government as a whole, which is the most responsible in any case. Secondly, as far as constitutionality and legality are concerned, observed a little bit wider, you were obliged, that's what your colleague here spoke of, your authority, your president of the assembly, to call elections in no small number of municipalities, where temporary measures have been in place for several months, somewhere even up to a year. So these are two very big problems related to the explanation of a particular solution. Also, I was reminded by MPs, you are very zealous when it comes to agreeing personal solutions with the division of portfolios and the division of power, in general, in Serbia, after the elections. It's strictly on time, all in accordance with that party division. One sentence about incompatibility of functions. We're witnesses, that I'm not going so far now, that you're waiting for the Constitutional Court, you're taking it out on that fact, and you're not solving certain problems. You say, further, the government whose term of office has ceased may until the election of a new government only carry out the tasks laid down by law. We are witnessing that the previous government did not adhere strictly to these provisions, which had been in force before, so they were not immune to sharing a certain number of apartments, to sign certain contracts, millions of values in euros, or billions. On the other hand, they washed their hands of responsibility when there was a question on the agenda that was painful and where the government might, perhaps, lose some political point. It's hypocrisy, and I hope it won't be in the next period. When it comes to voting against the government or a member of the government, it can now be requested by at least 60 MPs; it is under the new constitution. I would also like to warn the government and the public that there should be no game, as has already happened once, when the SRS Parliamentary Group submitted such an initiative, so you, some of the skillful moves, stalled and put us all in a position that it all became pointless. It is also said - at the first session, the next session. And here you are masters of what is the first session, the second or third session, because we have seen this about agreeing, that is, the adoption of many laws that the Constitutional Law prescribed as necessary, so now the responsibility is transferred from the Government to the Assembly, etc. As regards the urgency of the procedure, it is said in the light of one of these laws that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. You're even asking to come into force the next day of his arrival. We got this bill on July 6th, and today it's October 1st, and that tells you everything. Your authority, as the head of the SRS parliamentary group said earlier, is the most harmful consequence of everything that has happened in Serbia before. With several examples, I will illustrate the government's relationship, this government, and the National Assembly, where this government should be subordinated. National MP in the Serbian Parliament Vidoje Jovanovic asked the following parliamentary question on June 8th 2007: To inform the citizens of Ljubljana and the surrounding places in due time, and asked the question of responsibility for misinformation, where was General Zdravko Tolimir arrested? Be careful what response the Assembly received, that is, every MP: ''Beholding the fact that on several occasions the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska has made statements to the media about the arrest of General Zdravko Tolimir, the government considers the general public to be familiar with the relevant details. ''It is a complete response from the government, which I suppose considers itself to be serious, etc.; it was signed by Bozidar Djelic. I guess Kostunica's shame didn't want to sign this, so there's always Bozidar Djelic when something's dirty. We got an answer, and no one asked what the government of Republika Srpska was saying. We asked for an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia because General Zdravko Tolimir was a citizen of this state. You are once again showing what we have warned you about in the Law on Citizenship, that you are simply not taking care of all citizens equally, but only of the wives of the officials, if they are to travel by chance abroad; this is much more important to you than the fact that one General, Zdravko Tolimir, who, behold, had the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, was arrested. This response speaks of a complete relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia, this government, and the National Assembly. That particular comment, too, is not necessary, and it is the right of every MP to receive an answer. You say the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska has made statements on several occasions. Well, maybe that MP didn't get a chance to see and hear all those statements. It was a direct cause why we submitted an initiative to vote for no confidence in the government. The case has already been mentioned here that the government has answered the question of members of the Administrative Board on fees on boards, directors of agencies, etc. that they do not have data. I am sure that the government and finance minister have financial data for everyone, and the furthest, local community in the smallest municipality in Serbia. It's all under strict control. But there's no record of any agencies formed here. It's sassy and, to put it that way, it's rude. Here's one piece of information we received through the parliamentary question -- that the director of JP's Department of Books, over the summer, had a net of 215.210,00 dinars. As soon as we took that lead, they immediately tried to cover it up, but they'll have to, I'm sure they'll give you that information. National MP Momir Markovic also asked how many -- how many in NIS AD have managerial contracts, manager's accessories and their salaries. We didn't get that answer. I'm asking why they sent us what they call an answer if it's not there. Why is it a secret in Serbia when it's all public? On the other hand, there has been an unprecedented hack for several years on all MPs, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to cover up everything the government ministers are doing, and ministers in the government are trying, and the ruling set in general, to make it clear that in Serbia it is normal to be a thief. We've seen it's none of their business to discuss the governor's choice. They're trying to make Serbia the country it's never been, but I'm sure the SRS and the citizens who support it will get in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6828	I thank the People's MP Stefan Zankov. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and may the MP, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, be prepared after the break. So after MP Rajko Baralic's break, it's 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6829	After my presentation, it would be more correct and it wouldn't be ambiguous. It's okay. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since, among other things, it is on the agenda and amendments and addition to the State Holidays Act, let me say today is October 1st, to end the holiday of the first release of the Casca of German slavery. My authorities in Chačka changed this date. I'm very sorry about that. To the people who participated in the first release of Chačka and in the creation of the Užica Republic, and this occasion I give recognition, too, to their descendants -- to rise up to their ancestors. The streets such as Kadinjačka and Sava Kovacevic Street have been lifted in Cačka, so we don't open that question; one day we'll put it all back where it belongs. So, the anti-fascist struggle in Serbia must not have an alternative, if it has one, then it costs Serbia. This was abolished in the coalition by the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia and the Serbian Renewal Movement. We'll put all that back in reverse. We're considering a few amendments to the law today and I'm really asking you, Mr. Markovic, why don't we have a Constitutional Court? It's not malicious, it's not premeditated. Here, even several times we heard Mr. Batic say that you, your government, do not have a Constitutional Court, and I remind the public that he was the minister of justice in this country for more than a year and a half and that the government, too, that state, did not have a Constitutional Court. So either you don't have the strength to tell him, or you're all the same -- when you exercise power, that state doesn't have a Constitutional Court. So it's not normal. I must remind myself, although I am not a lawyer, that citizens in one country do not have legal certainty unless the Constitutional Court works and, worse still, that state is not treated as a democratic state. So how much does it cost for the ruling coalition to agree on the constitutional court's personal solutions? I have a question, does this mean that the Constitutional Court, or the Constitutional Court, will more or less respect the constitutionality and constitution of this country if it belongs to one or another political party? That's a terrible piece of information. It's the worst information about your government in the last few months. You've had this problem with the National Bank Council, you've had this problem with the State Auditing Institution, or the Commission, here, you've got it now with the Constitutional Court. It is high time you did so properly and assured us whether the Constitutional Court judges will act on what citizens or institutions are looking for, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or according to the party's book. It is very compromising for what is called the democratic bloc in Serbia. So, anything that's being brought, which is being considered here, doesn't make any sense without this starting point, i.e. to comply with the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, to finally establish the Constitutional Court, to finally elect judges of the Constitutional Court and to be able to say, behold, we are a state, we are not its surrogate. In that sense, I ask all of you, all of you who can influence it, to do it as soon as possible; we lost a hundred hours here, mentioning this problem, and this is a fundamental problem. There can't be anything else here if this doesn't work. Not to mention these things, the laws, changes and additions, he spoke more about it than fellow Petronijevic. Indeed, we urge you to do so, because it makes no sense, you cannot explain it to anyone else, even here, I will repeat, you do not have the strength to replicate to Mr. Vladan Batic, who has personally appointed prosecutors in Serbia and proposed the death penalty on a specified deadline. This now does not bother any normal analyst, legal or any other, in Serbia; here, it is not removed from this pay phone, telling you that there is only one sentence left. There's no fellow Pastor, so it doesn't make any sense, but, yes, I'm saying something about these questions that he's raised. I remind you of an assassination that took place in Belgrade years ago, when two Armenians were shot at by a Turkish ambassador, or something like that, I apologize, I don't know, it's not the most important now, but it was terrible back then. Belgrade police had to stop chasing the perpetrator of the assassination on the Pančeva Bridge because he had no right to act on the territory of the Pancheva municipality. Do we want a country like that? So, under the form of such or such, to violate such or such rights, this Parliament adopted a European declaration a few days ago, or as it is called, on the co-operation of the European police, and I am proud of it. We had a situation 15 years ago, before the Constitution of the 1990s, that a policeman couldn't cross the Panchea Bridge. It's not a state. I hope that time never comes again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6830	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. I'm taking a break until 3:00. Resume session is at 15 o'clock. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon work. According to the list of registered MPs, the word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6832	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we are talking about the law, or the bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act, which is in front of us on the second hand. He was once withdrawn from the agenda because of the promoter. What I want to talk about, although the four laws are united in this debate, is Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, which reads: "A Member of the Government cannot be in another public office in the state body, the body of an autonomous province, the municipalities, the city, the city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is incompatible with the duties of a member of the Government, nor create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest." I want to talk about the possibilities of a conflict of public and private interest, and I want to talk about how this conflict of public and private interest came about at a time when we started discussing this law in the Assembly and how the current government and its board of law on the prevention of conflicts of interest have been brought about in one specific case, which I can only characterise in words that the public interest is being mocked. In principle, I have to talk about Mr. Djelic's case, although personally, believe me, I don't care at all. And I don't think he deserves that attention, because I'm going to talk about him all the time, but simply, as a paradigm, as an example of a lack of sense of abuse and the creation of the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. Many call him the Duke of the Meridian Bank, and he is best known as the owner of the company "Altis", and when you comb the dictionary, you will find that "altis" is, in fact, a sacred tomb of Zeus. Altis company, i.e. Mr Djelic, who is once again the current vice president, a participant in power, a member of the government, did not accidentally select that name, as a man acting as a undertaker of public interest and his abuses, while building a temple in which the greatest valuables are kept, because that also means the word 'altis'. When you write in the law that a member of the government cannot perform a duty that is incompatible with the law, when you specify it by following the regulations, if there are organs that can decide without double standards, if there is a punishment that the offender can face, then there is no room for objection. How did that turn out in real life? It turned out that Mr Djelic proved us live, gave us a classic definition of corruption in an administrative, economic and public-interestal sense. In 2004, Mr Djelic founded the company "Altis", in terms of registration, but the current account of the company began to charge officially, possibly, and to pay taxes only in 2005, and only half of the year. He gathered his old friends from the former government, all those who meant something and knew something, and boasted that he had made 500m euros worth of transactions. If Mr. Djelic followed article 41. The privatisation law, which you repeat in the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, so that it can receive a reward and compensation, legally, as a commission for a successful job, it has, by its own recognition, earned 25m euros. Before we get to the disputed data and whether or not he was charging the proceeds, I want to warn you that he called his firm "Altis" an investment bank. There is evidence of this in interviews and statements that the gentleman himself made. The use of the term "investment Bank" is a specific kind of fake representation. According to the Agency for Business Registers, which you can all reach, it is obvious that it is a consulting house, which is registered as a limited liability company and with a minimum founding role of $500 for the work of consulting and external trade. With banking business, what was falsely represented as an investment bank, has nothing to do with the value of the stakes or the work. The same goes for "Altis Consalting", because the founding role, currently, according to the latest data, was $3,800, and at the time of its founding, was only $800. The question arises -- how could the $25 million gentleman charge, since the giro-account, in the old terminology, in the new current account, was registered only in June 2005? So, were there any regular job charges at all? Next question-- how did Altis get jobs in that kind of value? Why this very consultant? Was the quality of the job in advance guaranteed by the names of people working in the Government, the National Bank, or was it the classic application, of the ban on the competition clause, i.e. the abuse of the acquired circle of business links at the place of the previous minister in the government, or was it precisely the abuse of privileged information with which Mr Djelic had contact? Did someone, Mr Djelic, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Velija Tatic of the National Bank, prohibit these people from performing a work that had to do with work they had previously done, at least two years after leaving work, when they had privileged connections and secrets? If the Labour Act provides for any employee, does this mean that the Minister of Government is outside the law and that the Law does not apply to him? If all this is happening at a time when you're submitting a bill like this, I wonder, what is the point, other than making fun of both citizens and public interest. At that time, in 2004, the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council was, and still, party colleague Mr. Djelic, Bojan Pajtic, who promoted Mr. Djelic to his adviser. That same year, until the current fee bill was registered, due to a question -- that it does not enter into conflict of interest, former Minister Djelic was presented in each newspaper text as a former finance minister. It's about abuse of privileged status, information, relationships, and journalists know it well, which is why they represent it. He says he has no idea of entering a conflict of interest and therefore counsels Mr. Pitiæ for free. Listen now, Mr. Pajtic is headed by the Fund for Development, which approves loans, and he promotes in Novi Sad his free advisor, who in these circumstances is the most desirable adviser, because he guarantees us an approved loan. You remember how Mr. Kostic, I once talked about it, charged his friendship with Mr. Canko sitting in his cabinet and wanting to let the banks, the courts know, that he was at the source of information and as such, a desirable member of the board of directors, someone he shouldn't blame. This is also a rental of the former minister's former position. What's going on at the time? Mr. Djelic is also qualified as adviser to the Credit Agrikol Bank, which enters interesting and significant business relations with the Meridian Bank. For those of you who didn't know, Mr. Djelic himself says, in an interview that he gave on May 26th 2005, "This group" means "Credi agricol" group, "I know a long time ago, since 1995, when I was a partner in "Mekinzi", that's the firm from which Mr. Governor came to us, but only from the Frankfurt department, "I worked for them. Since then, there has been trust," which Mr. Vlahovic would disagree very much, because he believes he brought them to this market. He says, "I got the role of the Credit Agrikol Bank to allocate several billion euros in an optimal way for the whole group from Vienna to Vladivostok." Mr. Djelic has valorised his privileged links, information and position, setting up a representative of the "Credi agricol" group for a whole part of Europe and was interested in him because he will allocate a billion euros. Then he thanked Mr. Boris Tadic for his confidence and said that the French condition was that he could no longer appear at party gatherings and many mourned the words -- he went to the bankers of Boza. I ask the citizens, is it possible today that someone such a significant professional challenge -- to allocate several billion euros in an optimal way from Vienna to Vladivostok, replaces the low-paid post of deputy prime minister? What I find interesting, and what should be interesting for Serbian citizens, is that Mr. Djelic can do it because Mr. Tadic is walking around the world all the time. I understand that it is done by Mr. Milosavljevic, then president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who has a joint venture with him, so it is his interest to promote him clearly, unauthorized, but clear. Which Mr Tadic is interested in, again, in January 2005, before registering his accounts, he leads him as one of the members of the delegation to Libya, and there are JAT, "Yugoimport", "Altis consalting", "Simpo", "Energoproject", etc. In Greece, February 2005, an impressive list of participants of the partnership initiative for Greece, Serbia-Montenegro and is again a participant of Mr Bozidar Djelic, a former finance minister, and now owner of the "Altis" group. Why don't they promote him? Why should he not do so if he was in his own time, while he was in the government of Mr. Djindjic, his colleagues spoke of it, to a certain young person named Jelena Milenkovic, so they replaced her with a singer, an estrad artist, Jama, and it had nothing to do with a girl who worked at Citadel, a brokerage house, from very noble initiatives, entrusted her with the most important consulting tasks, but was already aware that it was abuse of position, so it was done indirectly; jobs were obtained by Rothschild, KPMG, but their subcontractor was just the company 'Citadel'. When love stopped, Mr Djelic realized that it was necessary for the privileged position to be charged for itself, not for the account of another company in which the person he loved works. That's why he founded "Altis" and at the time when Mr. Vucic submitted his application to the Committee of Conflict of Interest, on suspicion that he had entered into a conflict of interest and that, as a member of the Government, he also owned 10 percent of the actions of the "Meridian" bank, Mr. Dedier of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, allegedly, some of the activities that came down to it -- he did not report in time, but later changed his mind. It's like when a thief walks into a store, steals something, and when you catch him, he comes back, no, he didn't steal it. He says - we simply have to forgive him, because what would be, what a pity it would be for this country if people of such a form and such expertise were out of the system and we didn't use them for general interests. He literally says it's capable people, so for the state it would be unfavourable and harmful for them not to participate in state affairs and decision-making at the state level. This Mr. Djelic, through the company "Sopersas", on which there is only a telephone number in the directory of France, invested, allegedly, in the "Meridian" bank 9.99 percent share, and that number is so beautiful and interesting for the reason that the Law on the Prevention, on Money Laundering, requires that foreign founders, when 10 percent invest in the actions of a company, have to go to the last natural person and founder to show the owner of the actions. It came down on purpose, and not much, if a man hadn't lost his money, at 9.99 percent, so they wouldn't know it was Mr. Djelic. Now it doesn't bother international organisations dealing with the fight against corruption, it doesn't bother the NGO's "Transparency", or all those civil servants who care about Serbia's budget, because the 10 per cent stake in the Meridian Bank is not at the expense of whoever bought the Meridian Bank. They don't mind the corruption that comes from Serbia's budget and the burden on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it bothers them when they put their hand in their pocket and they don't allow it. And loans when they do, they're looking for a precise investment report and what we used to call dedicated control. While Mr Djelic, according to the market capitalisation of the Meridian Bank, has a minimum value of 4.2m euros in these 9.99 per cent, I ask the citizens of Serbia what is the value of the Nobel Prize for Economy? I ask the citizens of Serbia, who is the genius other than the patience of the Serbian people, can charge as Mr Djelic did? And it comes from the high world, where you know exactly what good Europeans are, Nolan's standards of civil servants' behaviour, so I won't bother citizens, but those who go to training in the EU should know what responsibility means to citizens and budgets. No, at the same time as we talk about a law that allegedly prevents the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest, Mr Djelic is again in the government, as vice president. Do you know what's most interesting? Not only him, but all the gentlemen who at the time of the privatisation of the banking sector and our write-off of debts to the London and Paris Club had privileged information, are now on the boards of foreign banks. Mr Pitic is a member of the Este Bank as the only Serb among Austrians and Germans, and for Mr Djelic, you know, Meridian's Bank. This same Mr. Djelic says - we will not privatise public enterprises, because we are neither incompetent nor corrupt so that we do not know how to manage them ourselves, and we will not, under pressure from foreign financiers, enter into privatisation for commissions. Was that true when the banks were privatized? Above all, the current topic - is that true when we have amendments and additions to the Insurance Society Act on the agenda? Because Mr. Djelic promoted the Credit Agrol's Bank as one of the most successful, which skillfully connects insurance jobs and financing jobs. I wonder who will now find themselves in conflict, not of interest, but in the conflict of individual interests, when they are fighting for the interests of Slovenians, or the Slovenian state-owned company Triglav, not Slovenians, but to destroy domestic insurance companies or possibly for French insurance companies. Not to forget, the bank where Mr. Djelic received 10% of the Meridian's bank stock is one of the ones that had 40% of our foreign debt at the London Club. However, she bought it before he came to the post in the government, but it would be interesting, it is also a recommendation for some services dealing with it, to see who, who, who, who, and whether it gave out privileged information on Serbia's financial market. I will conclude my story by asking the Serbian government to provide for the world's "golden parachute" for ministers to provide them with a salary within two years of leaving the ministerial post. It will cost the citizens of Serbia less than to allow themselves, with your all-out help, to deal with the public interest of the government, and to make fun of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6833	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6834	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SPS will not vote for this set of laws. Of course, it remains this law on national holidays, where there are objective circumstances, but, of course, there are certain objections and suggestions to the text offered, so we'll see. We won't vote for the other laws. From what we have heard, and here, now the previous speaker, Mrs Tabakovic, has made clear the facts they are referring to, it is a highly organised company, which works for itself, and it is not for the state of Serbia, nor for the people of Serbia. But let those who have more information talk about it. I'd say next. In the context of the Vladiglofik law, to use the Serbian word, constitutional solutions that define the government's choice and say - the gaps that existed in the Constitution in 1990 are no longer existing, deadlines have been set for the government's election after the establishment of the National Assembly. So, every honor on one of these progresses and achievements, because you've bravurally and with perfection, you from the ruling coalition, respected these deadlines, so at the last hour, at midnight, in the 1990s, you've chosen your hybrid government. This shows that this hybrid has failed, because it shows very bad traits of its institutes. Similarly to the government's election, with many deals and spending too much time, we had a story, a settlement and a delay in electing the governor of the National Bank, then the State Auditing Institution, and also the election of the Constitutional Court judges, who to this day are not put on the agenda. Therefore, do not glorify the new constitution and new constitutional solutions, if you are not able, or if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to comply with its constitution. The newspaper in this law, when it comes to government law, is in Article 1, where it is said -- the government determines and leads, what "leads" was before, politics. So it's interesting that the government determines politics. It can certainly be said that this is a new quality compared to the previous law. But we within today's government have two established policies, which function separately, as two separate governments, by verticals. One policy speaks of the priority of Euro-Atlantic integration, at any cost, and even without Kosovo and Metohija, if it comes to that, talks about Serbia's entry into NATO, and that no one has been invited to declare whether Serbia should join NATO or not, then the future role of the Army, which, instead of being one of the mechanisms in defending its country, will participate in type peace missions such as the wartime today in Iraq or Afghanistan. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Put out the fires. ) Yes, and it's one of the functions. The government's other policies are against Serbia's entry into NATO. Of course, with that kind of policy and attitude, the SPS also agrees. This policy has national-democratic lines, but, of course, there are also many shortcomings and ineffectiveness. Among these two policies, the government has a lot of disagreements, which is damaging Serbia's international position today in the current situation. Between these two governments and their policies, there is no agreement on the elections in Serbia, when it comes to local and presidential elections. The SPS thinks that those five principles...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6835	Finish up, time for your parliamentary group is already up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6836	Here, I'm done. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes the five principles on which the government was elected are not sufficient guarantees for the political co-existence that Serbia needs today. Of course, on some other aspects, I will have opportunities, along with the SPS MPs, to say something when the amendments are presented and proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6837	Thank you very much. There's a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Buha. Here you go. Let MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared. Here you go, Comrade Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about four legislative projects proposed by the Government, and these are about formal compliance with the provisions of the Constitution. I'm not going to talk about the formal side, I'm going to talk about the real solutions that the government had to offer, not offer. I'll start with the number of members of the government. The number is 25, which represents the largest number of government members in Europe right now, and we are going to mention the countries in the environment they have, here, Hungary - 15, Croatia - 15, Austria - 14 members of the Government, the Netherlands - 17, Macedonia - 22. What's important to point out is that the government doesn't, in my opinion, have two very important ministries. One is the evasive and exiled ministry, and the other is for human and minority rights. The government of Republika Srpska in exile, whose head I am, demanded and insisted, right in the period of forming the government, when it was already known who would form the government, to form a ministry of refugees and exiled persons. In the government, we have the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, so the exiled persons are covered by this ministry, but the evasive faces are not, and neither ministry is actively dealing with refugee population issues. What is important to point out is the expertise of government members. Let's start with the minister of sports. We know that the lady is a professor of literature, that she's been doing strategic research at the Department of Defense, and now she's a minister of sports. In addition, at the place of foreign minister we have a professor of physical immatism, a young man who does not have enough life, first of all, experience, and no professional experience to deal with the problem of foreign affairs. In the Ministry of Faith, we have a man who is a graduate electrical engineering engineer, who was the energy minister, director of the "Nikola Tesla" Institute, and today he is minister of religion. So we have real experts, people who can deal with this problem, so they're half-valuers and they can deal with everything. Why is it necessary in the government that we have a minister of exile and evasive faces? We must say that in the period since the 1990s, well, almost, to this day, continued genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Serb population from the Republic of Croatia and Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, and also from Montenegro, are similar methods. The population of the refugees and exiled population is moving around 12%. I think the number of refugees is very large and deserves the ministry. The refugee commissioner cannot meet the needs or solve a number of problems faced by the evasive population. I must mention certain things related to the economic and financial indicators of the work of the previous governments. This government is just the continuity of the government's 2000 DOS. We'll start with the balance of payments deficit, which is continuing from 2000 to today. That deficit is covered by foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency, so it's not the value that's being fertilized here, it's the income our countrymen send to help their families. This is also during 2006 a very significant financial injection, which went through our banking system, and in the balance of payments it is very well seen, of $3.5 billion. Then, we have a foreign trade deficit, which was $9 billion in 2006, and in 2007, according to indicators, after six months, we can expect a total of $9 billion, which would total between 2001 and 2007, amount to $44 billion. This government does nothing, not by any measure, not by activity, to reduce the external trade deficit. He's huge and he'd have to do something about it. Serbia's external debt has increased since 2001, at $10 billion, so last year it was close to $20 billion. We have a budget deficit of 13 billion dinars and it is covered by the best accumulation mass, from privatisation funds, or credits are taken from the National Bank of Serbia or from business banks. As for unemployment, we must mention the failure of this government and those governments since 2000. In 1999 there were 2,950,000 employees, in 2003 - 2,900,000, this year, i.e. the latest data were currently employed 2,527,000. This means a reduction of nearly 400,000 employees. No society can stand it. How does unemployment move? It was 20% in 2000, in 2005 - 25%, in 2006 - 26.6%. These are the data we could read from the report by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It's interesting to mention the privatisation funds. Since 1995, when it actively moved into privatisation, up to today, over 2,000 companies have been sold and a total of 2.5 billion euros has been achieved on a continuum of social enterprises sold. In addition, we must mention some of the funds that the companies privatised have received on the privatisation continent, worth 1,200,000 euros, and the social programme, worth 300,000 euros, totaling 4 billion euros. Instead of investing these funds from privatisation in new employment, reducing the number of unemployed persons at the National Employment Service's bureaus, we have turned these funds, which we have received, the best accumulation, into funds that we have covered the deficit in the balance of payments, in budgetary business, etc. Here, from the National Bank report, we could see that the loss in the business of the National Bank of Serbia is 30 billion euros, and its capital, which is interesting, is only 10 billion dinars. The foreign exchange reserves we boast of, which amounted to $12 billion in 2006, and the accumulation, which was only $6 billion in 2006, are the result of, above all, the privatisation separations, then the separations that each citizen takes out of his straw and carries, because he cannot survive with normal incomes, salaries, pensions, etc. In the end, a few sentences about the banking system. The government, as well as the previous governments, has not established a privatisation strategy for the banking system. We today have almost two-thirds of foreign banks that place funds at very expensive interest, ranging between 15% and 25%, well, even some banks and more than 25%. The same banks place their funds in their queens, so in Western European countries, at a rate of 2 to 3.5 per cent. This is where you place those funds at a rate of 15% to 25%. It is interesting to mention that these same funds, i.e. these banks, place funds in Croatia at a rate of 6-12% and here from 15-25%. In BiH, it is 12-15%, here it is twice as much, and now they boast that they have achieved very positive results and that their business units in Serbia are the best business units. Why? Just for high interest. Who pays them? They're paying our citizens. It is a devastating policy, first of all, of these governments and previous governments, which have not made a privatisation strategy for the banking system. This government has no future. As such, you will experience a very fast debacle in every field, because from this exhibit you have seen us go from deficits to deficits on every basis, both economically and financially.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6839	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from 1862, when, at the time of Prince Michael, the first law was passed on the establishment of a central state administration until 1918, Serbia had eight ministries. Just to remind you, it is a time when the state of Serbia, as an independent and independent state, has achieved the greatest successes on the political, economic, military and cultural agenda. Today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia numbers 22 ministers. The situation in the country can't get any worse. The government is such that, objectively, it is a disgrace to both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and to the whole Serbian people. The minister here, as an elementary school student, read to us what they wrote about these four laws. It is clear that the reasons for these draft laws have not been written by the minister. He wrote probably Zoran Balinovac, who heads the Republic Secretariat for legislation. I've been under the impression that the minister of many things contained in these bill proposals doesn't know much. Here we go in a row. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, among other things, states that the Government leads and determines politics and enforces laws. It is unclear how this is determined and run politics, when it is obvious that in Serbia we have a whole series of governments, since one government says it is for NATO entry, another government says it is not for NATO entry, one government says it will fight for the integrity of the state at all costs, and the other government says their priority is not Kosovo and Metohija but European integration, etc. So, how do you, Mr. Minister, think that the government determines and leads politics, if you have, on fundamentally national issues, diametrically opposite positions? Article 6 says - The government is obliged to suspend the implementation of a general act of the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade which it considers to be incompatible with the Constitution or the law, a solution that takes effect when published in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Where did you get the right to mention constitutionality and legality, Mr. Minister, to you and your colleagues in the government, when your government is the one who shows from day to day that it does not care about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What institution will question the constitutionality and legality of laws and other general acts, when we are here today, and today is October 1, 2007, we do not have a Constitutional Court? It's really funny that you call on the Constitution whenever it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you, Serbia is a state in an unconstitutional and non-constitutional state, and the responsibility for it is, exactly, the current government. It's also an interesting article. This government has been chosen to remind viewers of May 15th this year. You're now proposing to be a member of the 4. The government law changes and the oath by ministers says that members of the government will, among other things, be dedicated to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia. The ministers who took the oath on May 15th this year did not take this oath. Will it ever occur to anyone to say that these oaths do not apply to them, since they did not lay it in the text as contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act? As far as the state administration law is concerned, it is really unclear to me as a lawyer what is the fundamental difference between the decision and the second general act of the Autonomous Province. First of all, the Government suggested that Article 71 be amended. The law on state administration, which now, in the new version, has the following subtitle - Aging on the legality of decisions made by autonomous provinces in its work. In Article 71's position, the ministries say, watch the formulation, monitor constitutionality and legality of decisions taken by autonomous provinces in their work. The monitoring, Mr. Minister, is not a public-law dictionary, it's a police dictionary, and it's completely inappropriate for one such word to be found in a law that regulates the state administration. Furthermore, you, Mr. Minister, in the bill of law, have, among other things, put yourself in charge of the legality of not all the general acts that autonomous provinces make, but only those of the general acts that are formally called decisions. And it is clear to Laiko that this provision of the law will be played. It is enough that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, or some other AP, makes a general act that is not called a decision and is not automatically applicable to this provision of the law. They can always say, we've made one general act, but, you know, it's not a decision. Automatic, such a solution and such a general act does not fall under the norm of the law, i.e. Article 71 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. Then of that, supposedly, monitoring the constitutionality and legality and taking care of constitutionality and legality will be nothing. It's only enough to replace the word "decision" with one other term, and then from that control of yours, Mr. Minister, there's nothing. As for the law supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, I think, Mr. Minister, that the matter of the internal organisation of the state administration is well unknown to you. You may remember from college, but you don't seem to have a history of terminology or facts. I would like to say, perhaps I am wrong, if in the draft law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, or in the light of this proposal, you would give some example of what state officials at the executive posts that have status, or have had the status of appointed persons who do not handle the internal unit. The interior unit, Mr. Minister, is probably so in your ministry, too, are departments, sections and groups. Ever since the world and the century, and even since the 1990 Constitution, those who have run the work of internal organisational units, therefore, the head of the department, the head of the department and the group leader, have never had the status of appointed persons, have never been officials. It's completely unclear where you find civil servants in executive jobs who have had the status of posted persons who don't operate an internal unit. That fact is unknown to me. If you could give an example of such faces here, I'd appreciate it, because I'd learn something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6841	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sreto Perić has the word, and let Sasa Valjarevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, following your activity as People's MP, and now as Minister, I'd say it's two personalities. People will think it's one Milan Markovic, or two people. Once energetic, ready for some changes, with promises to Serbian citizens that it will be better, and today, no shadow of what once was. Namely, I did not get the impression that earlier, in the period when you were an MP, you would easily move beyond the fact that the discussion of four very important legislative proposals, which are now in front of us MPs, was united. The government law was regulated in part by constitutional norms, a constitution adopted last year. In fact, there are 14 members of the Government and of Article 124. The constitution is regulated by the Government's responsibility. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, as well as you, other colleagues, the government is responsible for the National Assembly for the politics of the Republic of Serbia and for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, as well as for the work of the authorities of the state administration. It's in our constitution. However, the government is trying to make you MPs responsible, in relation to it, that you are taking responsibility for what you are doing, and in no way are they setting up accounts for us here in the way they work and want to lead this Serbia. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, the first article states that the government determines and manages politics, but in your explanation you said that, according to the 1990 Constitution, the government was running politics, but it was not prescribed who determines politics, so it could be assumed that politics was also established by the National Assembly. I'm afraid it wasn't like that. Article 2 regulates that the government is required to suspend the execution of a general act of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade which it considers to be incompatible with the Constitution or the law, a solution that takes effect when published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I'm afraid of this part, Mr. Minister, because you saw, in the interpretation of these proposals, and colleague Ratkovic of the DS said it was only a matter of harmonising with the new provisions of the Constitution. I'm afraid that's the case, and in the afternoon discussion Mr. Alexander Vukic told you an example from India and Old Paz. I fear that in such a way, the Government will not refer to those local self-governments, or to municipalities where there are no supporters of the parties that make up the congregation majority. In Article 3, you provided for the incompatibility of the function, and the SRS directly applied the provisions of the Constitution to its parliamentary group, and it was certain that, as far as the part is concerned, it was not particularly necessary to regulate or be in no hurry. Many MPs, when they come out here, ask a question to any minister, as well as to the Prime Minister, which is why we have not chosen the Constitutional Court and which is why no constitutional court law has been passed. You see, we had these draft laws now on the agenda and in June and nothing changed to the quality of those laws, so we have them back on the agenda on October 1st. Now, you see how long it took to just change the face that was authorized by the government to represent this law. I'd be so much happier if we had another topic on the agenda today, to discuss the resignation and resolution of the government. In fact, the way you operate and how you do, it would be a real measure, and it should be found today on the agenda, not these amendments and additions to the government law, then amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. Both Minister Milan Markovic and counterpart Ratkovic said that this government wanted to make, i.e. to deprofessionalize and depolitize the ministries, and I think that's not the case. Almost every executive in any ministry, regardless of paying classes, at the level of responsibility, is a member of a particular party, or party located at this point in power. As for the salaries of the tenants, the SRS indicated in a debate in 2005, when the law was on the agenda, that it was wrong and that the SRS amendment should be accepted. We also tried to improve the quality of these laws by a certain number of amendments that you have proposed, and in case you accept them, maybe something could be done and better. If these amendments of the SRS are not accepted, the laws will become unusable, they will be of no quality and will not bring anything special to the citizens of Serbia. That is why these amendments should be adopted, to correct these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6843	Thank you, Mr. Peric. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have a set of laws ahead of us on the agenda. As the authorised representative of the Verica Radeta today said in her presentation, such important laws should not be discussed, there is no need to unite the debate, but you have, however, done so. We from the Serbian Radical Party will also try to point out the shortcomings in this set of laws that are ahead of us today. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, the SRS has seen many shortcomings in certain members of this law, so that it has also tabled certain amendments, which will be discussed subsequently. She also said a lot about Article 3 by counterpart Jorvanka Tabakovic about the conflict of interest and that a member of the government cannot be in another public post. I'll focus on Article 4. In Article 4, Article 16(2) is amended and read, i.e. The oath taken by all ministers and the Prime Minister reads: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and my honour to respect the Constitution and the law, that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the protection of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia." We have made an amendment to the oath, that is, Article 4, because, as is said today, certain ministers are hardly able to commit themselves to respecting the Constitution and the law. Because you have ministers who talk about themselves and about their party personnel, and they perform certain important functions in some new businesses; they are told to work a little bit, and they have, as a matter of fact, caught a lot, so they have made huge affairs - in the Ministry of Velimir Ilic. Not to talk about Mladjan Dinkic and past-government affairs, and now they continue to do so and hardly allow Serbian citizens to trust them. That is why the SRS has given an amendment to which the oath would read as follows: "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I pledge to unconditionally protect its sovereignty and its overall territory, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia. I will respect the Constitution and the law, and I will carry out my duties as a member of the Government with security and responsibility.' As for the amendment and addition of the Government Act, we have a few more members, you have an article 5, where the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "state officials in position". The SRS saw the same possibility as in the previous government, when Mladjan Dinkic, or G17 plus, resigned, but continued to employ his party personnel and thus burdened the Republic of Serbia's budget. In order not to do so, in case Mladjan Dinkic and G17 again resort to it, when they feel that this government is sinking or that the government is going to fall, so as not to fill up the rest of the ministries again, because we have witnessed that new staff as advisers are being brought to each of the ministries these days, though, to you, Minister, I have not heard that you have new advisers, but in the other ministries there are, we have pointed to Article 5, or that there are shortcomings. In order not to be able to, and when the minister is in resignation, employs his staff, we have pointed to this Article 10, that is, Article 23, paragraph 1, which is amended and reads, "The Minister can resign, which is referred to the Prime Minister, and which is forwarded by the Prime Minister to the President of the National Assembly." That's what happened when the government passed. In order not to repeat everything, the proposal has been made that, in Article 10, the word "resends" is replaced by "delivery" so that this amendment is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and does not leave the possibility of already seen resignations, mentioned G17 plus. Also, in Article 5, we have made an amendment that, after the word "in position", they add the words "not to employ new civil servants and tenants", just to avoid new employment. By the way, the newly elected governor, ten days ago, in the "Justice" list, clearly gave some of his views on how the government works, what policy is being run. Given that here, in law, it was given that the government is leading the policy of this state, he said that it is responsible for the increase in inflation, i.e. the projected inflation, which was 6.5%, has already been breached, it goes towards 8%, and it is expected to be even bigger by the end of the year, because this policy and this non-purpose spending of funds will certainly come to this, and that the government cannot be affected, because each of the ministries has its own influence, so that this other party, or coalition, does not work, but is executed, to say, the division of the ministries by the parties, so that each party has its own policy. So there's no consensus and no deal. We were witnesses, first of all, that it was a choice for the governor, so he didn't pass in the first round, because no deal was reached, or G17 plus blackmail was not accepted, or New Serbia. Then we also saw it in the election of auditors and the State Auditing Institution, which is why the Serbian Parliament could not work because no agreement was reached between the coalition. It shows that the government is not working at all, that this policy leads the country into worse and worse conditions. As far as local self-government is concerned, the situation is alarming. Here, I'll mention the Big City Municipality. The temporary administration was introduced after the local parliament was disbanded, given that one of the conditions was truly met, there was no holding session. However, when it was introduced, they functioned for the first month. By law, after three months elections are due to be called, but they are not scheduled, and now all investments have been hitched. That's where local self-government doesn't work at all. The president of the municipality is totally blocked. What he's got, what he's got, he's doing, but he can't carry out what's supposed to make it temporarily bigger. As colleagues have said, over 10 cities in Serbia already have such a forced administration, which, as well as the government of the Republic of Serbia in the ministries, cannot agree on joint operating strategies, so that this situation in Serbia must be resolved urgently. The Serbian Radical Party expects these amendments that we have proposed, as arguments and explanations are adequate for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6845	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Vukelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to everyone that the current DOS government is being hoisted off the wagon and rope and that it is a rotten compromise of parties that have reunited in the new old DOS. Thus, in the distribution of prey, i.e. the ministries, and control of public enterprises, Serbia received the most massive state apparatus in this part of Europe. In the last term of government, we had 17 ministries, and today we have 22. Of course, the fight for the distribution of directorial posts and places on boards in public enterprises, which have not yet been sold out into decommissioning, should not be wasted. In such a DOS government, whose first move was to arrest General Ratko Mladic, it means that the night the government was elected, and, of course, kidnapping and taking to The Hague General Tolimir, he found the place, as a consultant for bringing foreign direct investment, and the current president of the municipality of Indjija Goran Jesic. On 19 September 2007, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, named Goran Jesic, president of the Indji municipality, as adviser for foreign investment. Article 27. The government law states that advisors are part of the cabinet of vice presidents of the government. Today we are discussing the government law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Government Act, and unfortunately this government does not respect existing laws either. I wish the minister were here, to remind him of some members of the Law on Local Self-Government. Thus, Article 6(4). The law on local elections is - the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor, cannot be a council committee of the municipality, or city, to perform a duty in public service bodies or enterprises established by the municipality, or the city, or a duty in the state bodies and authorities of territorial autonomy. Article 60 paragraph 6 of the Law on Local Elections reads - the president of the municipality ends the term of office before the time he was elected if he performs tasks that are incompatible with the function of the president of the municipality. I'll remind you of Article 5. The Law on conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions states that a functioner cannot accept another public function. Thus, by placing Goran Jesic in the position of advisors and formally breaking the law, but the worst is that she is broken and healthy and elementary logic. Is the position of Serbian government advisers the Jesic Prize for deception and false promises of bringing foreign investment to Indji? I'll remind you of just some of them, for the sake of time. As early as in the campaign for last local elections, Jesic promised to build a spa in India, even had pre-election videos showing the non-existent spa. It's been, like, almost four years since then, and there's no sign of a spa. Another part of his campaign background is the story of bringing the Burning Factory to India. The factory in Indji did not come; it was built, but in the municipality of Stara Pazova, where the Serbian Radical Party rules. Also, we had Jesic's, alleged, investments, bringing Don Coffee to Indji, then Germany's Meler factory, which was also supposed to run its own plant in India, and all this went with a large media pomp and Jesic's self-gratulation to the limits of unsustainableness and indignation. Of course, these factories didn't come to India either. When we talk about cheap political marketing, I will give another example of Jesic's false promises. In early 2006, several months on local television, we had the opportunity to listen to Italians invest in the Indji municipality and build the largest paper processing factory in the Balkans in India. Even there were words, Jesic mentioned on several occasions that then Italy's Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi would raise the stone to build the factory. Of course, there was nothing since that investment. A Serbian government adviser Goran Jesic, more than a year ago, presented several Slovenian businessmen from Testline company, such as Kišdobran Zeljko, Janko Bel Pavlovic and Marijan Simisic, as top foreign investors. In the field near Beška, Jesic personally cut the tape with a large media pump and laid the foundation stone on 20 October 2006. Along with the cornerstone, there was a competition for the employee's reception. In order for these workers to be admitted immediately, it was the obligation of workers to return to the Continental Bank, in a branch in India, to apply for a loan to be paid back by the company, and workers, in return, would immediately begin to receive the salary. And indeed, the workers, 285 of them, got their first salary, but the first paycheck was actually just a basis so they could raise credit and money that the unsuspecting workers gave to the investor. These Jesic investors thus collected over 3.5m euros and 996m and 868 000 Swiss francs, and then these large investors and businessmen, who brought them to the Indji municipality, disappeared without a trace and voice, in an unknown direction, leaving the factory's foundations, which, minority, did not even begin to work, and those 285,000 people in a row. Here, we also have pictures. So much Jesic boasted, he even put that picture on his website where he and that Marijan Simisic place the stone foundation. Jesic is a very successful manager in the yellow company, so he managed to do another amazing thing. The municipality of Indjija replaced its 435 square-square building in Prčnje, on the Montenegrin coast, only 10 meters away from the sea, with a private owner for a school in nature in the Indji village of Jarkovci, and this facility has only about 100 squares in Jarkovci. Now the question is how much is a square worth on the Montenegrin coast and ar of land, and how much is a square and ar worth in a remote village. Otherwise, the inhabitants of Jarkovci informed me that the building in Jarkovci had no electricity, no water, and that it was unfinished. The setting of Jesic as adviser and its introduction to the Serbian government, in the best way, also speaks about the nature of this DOS coalition and the trade between DOS parties, which is at work, which costs Serbian citizens dearly. Now Jesic is sitting in the government, and last time I told the Prime Minister whose name he calls in the magazine 'Standard' 47 with a local dwarf; for Government Minister Velimir Ilic, he says it is evidence that any fool in Serbia can become a minister. Since Jesic successfully sold out everything he had in India, I will not talk about it now, there will be an opportunity, as the municipality sells land for one euro per square metre, and then later resells that land by 15 to 20 euros per metre square metre. Obviously, all these transactions and malfeasances were the best recommendation to become a consultant in this current DOS government now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6847	Thank you. The People's Messenger Darko Glisic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ivana Zečević be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I could just read the fine names of these legal proposals, I would spend a good part of the time belonging to our MP group, or to me as an MP within the SRS Parliamentary Group. This only speaks of how pointless this unification of all laws is in one principle debate, because it does not allow quality talks on the laws, the order in which they came, or it is difficult to explain several legislative proposals in a very short time. They have certain touch points, but for one quality debate, it really is a problem. Minister Markovic, who was not present, had plenty of time to explain this law, but, I followed in class, in less than ten minutes, in a very unmistakable explanation, exhibited something that he himself was not sure about. I hope this is all clear to you, and if we didn't get, to be honest, a written explanation of these laws, it's hard for us to know what we're talking about today with Minister Markovic. The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act is a good way to discuss the government itself, or the direction that this government operates. When you look and see that there is a representative of the Government of Milan Markovic here, it is inevitable to ask - on behalf of which governments. The fact that you have defined this existing government of the Republic of Serbia in two governments is your problem. However, the fact that one government is personified by representatives of the Democratic Party, and the other is gathered around Vojislav Kostunica, is something that makes you look like horns in a bag and really burdens not only the government's work, but also began to burden citizens. The fact that you have a problem with yourself, that's not the problem with citizens. Of course, my personal position, as well as the position of the SRS, and, I would say, for most of Serbia, is that you are, in fact, just two ends of one of those same beatings and that there are a lot of things that you are about, and in the interest of your survival in power. One of the key is that every law will be used in the way it suits you, to make the best of you, both in local self-government and at the level of the Republic. Your best example is these temporary bigger and local events. I'm glad my colleague from Valjev Milovan Markovic is here, although he is busy with the story at the moment. He was the strongest critic of the Interim Council in Valjevo, as it exceeded the mandate and how that time came out of all the legal frameworks, but when it was over and since they entered the Republic government, Mr Markovic no longer mentions it; now he's only interested in how much his party's share of the people representing his party is. They still haven't agreed, since they're asking for a little more, so these arrangements are going to last, so that the Temporarily Greater in Valjev is free to change his name and be constantly bigger, because, as it went on, he's going to push the four-year term. Several other municipalities were mentioned, fellow MPs mentioned various examples. Comrade Markovic, you have the opportunity to report for the replica, certainly, so you can try to deny it, but you know that in some shows we were together and there we even agreed and sharply criticised that it had come out of the legal framework and that the temporary council in Valjev violated all legal norms. Then, all of a sudden, how you became a coalition partner in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the tajac -- now, let's talk about who's going to take it. Of course, drp system, that's right, colleague Krasic. I fear that these laws, which are proposed, or amended and complemented by these laws, aim to enable the ruling coalition to prepare itself in the best way for the elections, thinking only of itself and its party personnel, not thinking at all about the consequences it leaves for the citizens of Serbia. Minister Markovic came out, and I was going to ask him a very important thing. Given that the law on territorial organisation will soon be discussed, one very capital matter - the "Colubare B" plant cannot go into its construction, which is not only affecting the citizens of Tamnave, but also the environment, because, in order to get certain permits to move into the realisation of that project, there must be one comprehensive plot on the territory of one municipality, and in this case - one smaller, almost negligible, part of it is on the territory of another municipality. It is something that burdens construction, indeed, with one capital thing, and I hope Minister Markovic will have the understanding, that when he comes to the concept of the law on territorial organisation, he will have that in mind. It is something that every reasonable man should stand behind and cannot dispute, because a large number of jobs will be open and it is very important for the economy of the Republic of Serbia to find a solution and to move into the realisation of the facility. Just one last thing, something that's talking about you, and I'd like to pray, given that I'm going to use this as part of Article 225. Rules of Procedure, if you can, stop the time. In one minute, just to show what kind of liars you are. You in the Municipality of Stara Paz are jealous that Srdjo Komazec, president of the Municipality of Stara Paz, is an incomparably better and more capable man than the one you brought into your ranks and you represent him as some successful and very important president of the municipality, who, of course, has done something. It's about Goran Jesic. Sr. Komazec is guilty only because the citizens there trust him and give him confidence, because he is successful and he has produced exceptional results. To do something about detachment, therefore, trying to bring down the local congregation, you resorted to incredible lies. You have accused the present MP Gordana Gajic of being in Stari Pazova, of being bought by the SRS to come and give the quorum at that session. I must tell you, Mr. Millyvoy, you are mistaken. Maybe conscious, maybe unconscious. Gordana Gajic has been resident in the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka and is a committee member in the municipality of Smederevska Palanka. You even published her picture, that she gave the quorum at the assembly session in Old Paz. Well, how can you not be ashamed to lie? Even your MP here, I don't even know him, John Tishma, says -- yes, he is, that's Gordana Gajic, she's received 50,000 euros, we've seen, carried in a bag and gave her a kiosk and I don't know what you've made up, and the woman, since she was born, lives in Smederjevska Palanca. I suppose you know, Mr. Milivoevich, that by law you cannot be a councilman in two municipalities, but where you have a residence. It seems to be a waste of my efforts, but it only speaks of one thing, that you can't see the facts in a real way. I am now sending a message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia - know that whoever is lying, he is stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6849	The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Ivana Zečević. Is colleague Momir Markovic next on the list? Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6850	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, and he has today found himself in front of us for, as it stands in reason, alignment with the Constitution. Harmonizing with the Constitution is a positive thing. No one complains about it, and we have no objections here. I wish everything had been done right before, that everything was consistent with the Constitution. The problem is that this National Assembly, this home, still does not work constitutionally and is not respected even the Law on the implementation of the Constitution, let alone some other things. Now, we have to bring this government law into line with the Constitution and, in the light of one position, it states that the new constitution explicitly empowers the government to take care of the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the municipalities. It then gives the Government the right to suspend the exercise of the general act of the municipality, when it considers that they are not in agreement with the Constitution, and within five days to initiate the procedure for assessing the constitutionality or legality of the general act of the municipality. I am interested, as others have already mentioned, in which constitutional court will this government or the competent ministry address when it finds that some general act is not in accordance with the law or the Constitution, and what court will resolve this issue when we do not have that constitutional court? This government should be an example of local self-government, its work and its activities. Fortunately, it is not an example of local self-government leaders who are from the SRS, as municipalities in which the Serbian Radical Party is in power do not intend to follow an example of the government operating in anti-constitutional conditions. However, there are many municipalities headed by DS representatives and some other parties, who are taking part in this government and who, unfortunately, follow the government's work. So I wonder how this government will coordinate and monitor the legality and constitutionality of the general acts of these municipalities, that it may not be aware of the monitoring of the legality and constitutionality of the acts of those municipalities headed by some other parties, which do not participate in this government? I know many examples of local self-governments involving party representatives participating in this government, without any questions being raised and no acts being evaluated. I come, by the way, from the titel municipality. In the municipality of Titel, the president of the municipality is Mile Petrovic, he is from the DS, and the Assembly of the Municipality is so composed that it is in power of the DS, with its satellites. Now the question is not of the acts they bring, but of their inaction is a very big problem, that is, they behave like this government. As the Government does not pass laws and regulations, as it does not follow the Constitution, so do the heads of the titel municipality. I'm just going to give you some examples, not to burden you with a lot of details that have nothing to do with this law, but these are important examples, to show you that they're doing the same thing as this government. Our municipality, not even after seven years of participation of DS in the government in the municipality of Titell, has brought a development programme to the municipality. We don't have any development program. It's both chaotic and case-to-case, if there's anything to be done at all. Our municipality, even after many years of adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, has not adopted a decision on public building land, and this is a decision in which it is only necessary to list tax-based parcel numbers that belong to this public building land. However, they are not able to bring it either, not to say that almost all urban plans have already expired and the new plans have not been adopted. The law on the financing of political parties is not respected. Since 2004, as we have committees in the Sitel Assembly, for the fourth year we do not know by what principle and by what standard our committees should receive the funds that belong to them for participation in local self-government and are not passed as ordered by the law, but once a year - what we get, we get, we should be satisfied and agree. The programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land stands for a year, practically, on the agenda to be adopted in our local self-government. A year ago, in September of last year, a commission was appointed to adopt and adopt a programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land and, behold, not a year later, it was not adopted, nor discussed at the Assembly of the Municipality. It is interesting that none of the ministries responsible for the given area responds to all of this, not even to the budgetary inspection, although 12 of the SO Titel committees wrote a written request, with an explanation, with individual items from the final account, on which the budgetary inspection was to come out and search the final account of the municipality of Titell. Even they don't come to our community. We are now interested in how will the government, with its ministries, which contain almost the same people who were in the previous government, monitor the legality and work of these local self-governments, when they have not done so in the previous period? I must point out that only the Ministry of Local Self-Government reacted in our municipality, the first time in 2004 when local self-government was unlawfully established, and then the re-constitution of local self-government was ordered, as well as when SOTEL was established for the second time in 2004, and that it was unlawfully kidnapped one term, one SPO councilman, although there was already a decision by the Constitutional Court that the mandate belonged to the board rather than to the parties. After that, the Ministry of Local Self-Government no longer advertised. It is nice that the law stipulates that general acts in local self-government are being followed and that they are being evaluated, because someone has to worry about it, but we are interested in who will do it and how, since, from the practice of our municipality so far, we are witnessing that the competent ministries did not advertise and did not follow the legality of the general acts. The government is obliged to forward this within a certain period of five days. It's funny to discuss this deadline now, when the Constitutional Court doesn't exist. It can be done, but then it will end up in some drawers, as long as this congregation, this home and this government are doing it the way it works. Second question. Of course, we can comment on why this law contains an oath in which members of the government must in particular swear to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country and to mention Kosovo and Metohija, that our share will remain inalienable. Isn't it natural and normal, isn't it natural that someone thinks it's part of it, as their own country, and we don't have to mention it, but it seems that the times are such that even such things have to be sworn in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6851	Did Momir Markovic arrive in the meantime? (No) Here you go, colleague Zorana Krasic. The time remaining for the SRS will be used by counterpart Zoran Krasic, which is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6852	Srjan, kick your ass home all night. This is the National Assembly, it's not beating up here. I'm surprised you didn't go to the embassy. It's not like Ceda Jovanovic took over the primate in co-operation with the US Embassy at Miss Nancy's, is it? Take care. I have to follow, because you're destroying my country and then I'm tailing all of your meetings. So I was amazed to be silent, because there was almost some meeting with the NATO pact, right, Mr. Delicu, and this Micunovic blew up in his own country. Instead of defending his country, he attacks his country in his country with NATO. Bruca and shame. Today I'm reading in the papers, the Americans are deciding who's going to be the judge of the War Crimes Council, who's going to be the prosecutor, who's going to do what. So sovereignty doesn't exist. It's democratic fluid. Let's get back to these laws. They have brought four laws together into one principle debate and the only common point is the letter "z", the second is all different. First I'm going to tell you about the government law. We have a bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act, in the process of harmonising the rules with the new constitution. What does that mean? If a new constitution is adopted, some new obligations are prescribed, some new solutions are given, something that is drastically different from the previous constitution, and then a new law is passed. Why the new law? In order for the official messenger, according to the date and number of the official messenger, to see also visually that it is a new regulation based on a new constitution. When, in the sense of harmonising with the new constitution, the law originally passed by the old constitution changes, the situation is about to take place next. The new government says -- we have an old shirt, so it's torn up, we don't want to have a new shirt, we're going to wash this one up and patch it up, and it's going to be a shirt. The second variant of why it is not going to the new law is that they were afraid that, perhaps because of each member of the new bill, they would be some amendments, and then they say we are very late in Europe, etc. We'll take this government law as an example. The law was passed in 2005 and is now changing in accordance with the Constitution published in 2006. It was supposed to go to a whole new law. That the government is aware of this problem is best shown by Article 15 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. It reads: "The Legislative Committee of the National Assembly is authorised to establish a consolidated text of the Government Act." Why are we doing a double job now? Couldn't we have passed a whole new government law and if there was a big problem, a big fear in the government, they could have said, in relation to the existing law, some of the solutions in Articles 5, 17, 20 and 25 are being changed in the new law, because there is a process of harmonisation of the rules. Now we will have the law on amendments and amendments to the law, and then the Legislative Committee will publish the consolidated text, and then the text will get a unique number, and we will say that it is now in accordance with the new constitution. It's just a marriquetteluk. It shows how insecure the government is; it's full of factions. If newspaper articles were to be read only for the past year, you would hardly find two people who did not fight over newspapers. There's fewer? That's how I interpreted the minister. So there are fewer. So, only the minister didn't argue with himself over the papers. Thank you, that's quite clear now. What's the situation? You have a situation the day the governor was elected; it was difficult for this side to vote for him, they voted by the system "less evil", as Canak said -- the day we were supposed to vote for Kostunica, one of our sitting on his arm all day to numb him, that when he circled, it hurt him less. "Close your nose, then vote for DOS," that's what it was, you all know. The finance minister attacks on the day of the elected governor of the NBS and, behold, 16 days argue over whether inflation will be this big or that big, which is some single policy, etc. Really, terrible things happen. What's worst for the legal system is when the constitution is prescribed in some law, but they've taken a step further in these few draft laws. They were doing this too partially, so the sense was lost, and in this way the spirit of the norm from the Constitution was not reflected in the law but the holes appeared. The holes appear consciously and deliberately. Why? Since democracy came, we've been used to being able to do without a final bill, that we can do without a budget, that we can without a government, that we can without a choice, that we can without a constitution, that we can without a constitutional court, that we can without everything. What can't we do without? It's that message -- we can't do it without a democratic bloc. Why? He's a front for everything. He's a platform for negative radiation emissions, he's a reference to the greenhouse effect, he's a platform for advertising, he's a mental ethalon, he's in every respect of the etalon. Why? He loves them West. Very simple and simple. What, by definition, there must be one state, which belongs to the classical definition of the state, democracy has told us it doesn't have to. Why? Because they're turkeys. Let's move on, they don't fit the oath. Let me remind you of what democracy has given us. We had Minister Pitic in that Zivkovic government and after three months he explained some law here. That Mircic of ours came to ask him - when did you take an oath to be a minister? Then Natasa Micic, the famous president of the National Assembly, carried out a check, didn't really take an oath, the man represented the state for six months without a sworn oath. A half-hour break took place, he took an oath, continued to explain the law. That's all democracy gave us. That's an interesting thing. How come the people didn't brand that kind of behavior? It's an enigma for normal people. If the radicals had done two percent of what the democratic bloc was doing, we would have been leveled with NATO's land, they would have been bombs everywhere. They can do anything. If you don't mind, step out for the pay phone. Gather your courage, come out, talk to the public and say - Krasic cheated, from word to word, for everything he said. Don't be so sneaky, cynical, rude and cowardly, on the side. Spread out, the people love you. Come, say, show yourselves, therefore there is a Parliament, to be told, to conflict opinions, to say arguments, to submit evidence and say - Krasic has deceived everyone, do not trust him. You keep your mouth shut or go out with someone there, you don't have to tell me anything. If there's been some interference with this government law, why were you afraid of the state holiday laws? The stopped state union, two or three holidays that were on that allegedly federal level, or the level of the state community, by some logic, move to a republican level. We have our Statehood Day, we have those religious holidays that we recognize, gather these and go with the new law. It was hard and it was hard. We're in a paradoxical situation. We are, quite clearly, a state of republican form and we should have some holiday celebrating that form of government, so that someone doesn't get confused. We don't have a holiday like that. Statehood Day can be interpreted anyway. We don't have a Republic Day. I agree, on November 29th, it may not be correct, but from a historical point of view, November 29th is the first date when the republic prevailed. Read some books, I can't go with you illiterate. Read some books, people! There are so many books, the National Library. Be members of the National Library, not the honorary member of the library, Boris Tadic, the English library. Be a true member, who reads books, not an honorary member. Don't say that! This is the National Assembly, it is the layman, but that involves the basic knowledge of certain things. We can't draw here now, chalk and pencil, so the board, so let me draw. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Perhaps it is a regret for communism? Is it regrettable for communism? Is that what you're telling me? If you'd read some things, you wouldn't have gone crazy like that! Hurry, your Chad is faster than the Americans. Nancy's waiting there, so you know. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Is she beautiful? Ask Chad. Well, you see, in such conditions, we need to swallow what we're offered. Of course, we're gonna argue with this. We've submitted a few amendments to show what's wrong. But let's see what kind of experts this is, which is supposed to name this. Just to remind you that there is a small group of people who are reportedly involved in politics, who say: expertise in front of politics. They only give expertise, they don't care about politics at all. Then we learned that the non-party candidate Jelasic must be elected, because within the party's division in the government -- it belonged to party G 17 plus. I thought this was where it all ended up with those mental things. However, we went further. We got "Milets of Assholes," I think that's what they called "Mile of Transition." I thought he was an actor, but I see he's a great expert in recycling, what did they say? Where did he learn that? At the academy? I don't think so. Is it on B 92? He could have learned the worst things there. I can't, you know, get mad at that man. He made a statement, he says, you know what, it's a good thing they chose me to do there, they hired me, because I need to get paid for what I did for them this year to promote, so he says there's no interference, I'm going to learn that in a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6853	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6854	Here, Mr. Esade, just two more minutes. What's this about? For several years now, I have killed myself by proving that incompetent judges and judges work in The Hague. Imagine something. That's a statement from a judge from Judge Shonburg. Namely, he is invited to give a lecture there, in Austria, on international ordinary law. All the newspapers have published it. He says this - I don't like Carla del Ponte meddling in politics and meddling in what the court needs to do, I don't like that we don't apply continental law, but I'm extremely glad I'm a judge, because I'm now in a position to learn international law. You see, that statement -- that it applies the international law of a man who says -- when I became a judge, only now can I learn what an international law is, "Mile Asshole" heard from Shonburg. And he says that -- I'm glad, I'm intelligent, recycling I have to master in a few days and why it would be a condition for me to get a job. The condition for me to get a job is to be close to Bozidar Djelic, with the Democratic Party, because they are debtors at Milet Transition. He's been doing a campaign for them all these years, so they have to pay him off somehow. The foreigners don't give any more money and say, "Now you're the government, now pull and finish your business with your own." All of this is in this united request to discuss these four draft laws. Whoever doesn't believe what I'm saying, let him look at the bill's proposals, so he can come out and tell me if I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6855	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lidija Vukicevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6856	Dear MPs, I have asked the Ministry of Culture, more specifically, the Minister of Culture, the appeal of independent artists, as a representative in the Assembly - will they, because they should change the points of the Law relating to the payment of the contributions of independent artists, be recognised as profits? In response to my parliamentary question, I received the following – that, on 24 September 2007, the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia launched a public debate on a new draft law on culture, which was published on the website, etc., so as not to read everything. So, the draft law on culture, as everyone here knows in the O.R., has no legal validity, so I wouldn't even comment on it. In order for the law to be passed on to culture, he must pass all that procedure, first of all, to go to the government's session of the bill; if adopted at the government's session, then he becomes a bill of law. As a bill, it comes into the assembly procedure, and after the adoption of the Assembly and eight days after the publication in the Official Messenger, it has legal validity and then we can count it as the law on culture. But what interests me and more importantly is this. And in this draft law on culture, it says, in response, that "retired artists and other cultural workers for a top-notch contribution to the culture of the Republic of Serbia can... "I stress "can." That means they don't have to be provided, i.e. If they had extra funds, I would now use the term "national pensions" that would go to that main pension of theirs. So, to separate some money that would follow up on a small art, standard, pension, with which, otherwise, artists retire. My question is now addressed to the Minister of Culture. I guess they'll answer my question. What are the criteria for determining these so-called "national pensions", maybe you'll call it different, but it doesn't matter, because, mostly, we understand what it is, so what are the criteria for determining these national pensions, and who has the discretionary right to order one artist to have that national pension and not the other? Of course, as we know, we won't discuss tastes -- which actor prefers, or painter, or writer. Who determines these national pensions and who applies them? I have to say again that I'm afraid of one thing. That's what I'm referring to as the Minister of Culture, so it doesn't happen like last year, when 32 million were allocated from the budget in 2006 to the so-called so-called. National pensions to individual artists, not just actors, but, in general, top artists, and from that budget that was allocated to these special pensions, no one has seen a dinar. I have to admit, really, I didn't expect the Ministry of Culture to answer me in this way -- to look for an answer to my parliamentary question on the website. If I wanted to ask like that, I'd turn on the computer and the Internet directly and look for a similar answer. I don't think that's worthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6857	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6858	I'm almost done. I don't think it's worthy of the Minister of Culture to answer that way. So, on the website, I can't find what I'm interested in and I can't get the answer I need to get. That should tell us, to give us in writing the Minister of Culture. Secondly, there are places like Shilovo, where I was some, maybe, 20 days ago, where people don't have electricity for 9 hours. So they're not in a position to inform themselves and get an answer to this question when it comes to independent artists. I'm out of time, right? (Yes) Nothing, thank you. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6859	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6860	Mr. Chairman, look at this weather, something expensive, so let's cut costs. Of course, I refer to Rule 136, and that member regulates the content of the bill, what he must have. In particular, I'm making an observation, or I believe that the proposing's representative has to come out and explain some things to us. I'd like to draw your attention, turn to page 4 of the argument, the last paragraph, the law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, applies to Articles 12 and 13. It's a bill of law. There was an explanation of the basic legal institutes. I must tell you that, as far as this explanation is concerned, it is correct, but that explanation and what is written in Articles 12 and 13 absolutely has nothing to do with it, or to be more precise, Mr Markovic, it is very well written here why something is deleted in Article 40 of the existing law and in Article 41. I fully share that opinion, but there is no explanation for what is being entered into the new text of Article 40. Here is what is being introduced - the concerns of the President of the Republic and the Government are based on co-operation and on the rights and duties laid down in the Constitution, the law and other general acts. I think this is an absolutely unnecessary formulation. Why? The authority of the President, the authority of the Government, is defined by the Constitution. In what relationship will the President of the Republic and the Government be, we are talking about state bodies, I am not talking about a natural person who is the President of the Republic or a natural person who is the Prime Minister, it is for the Constitution and for the law a completely marginal thing, I am talking about state bodies. It says, their jurisdiction is regulated by the Constitution, curved, restricted, as long as someone, from where else. It's formally the President of the Republic at the head of the executive office, only formally, that I don't tell you why. How can you write co-operation? In what more general act than this bill of yours says they have to cooperate? When you say co-operation, come on, explain to me what it means. Do you then take it down to personal solutions for people who are at the head of these organs, have to drink coffee, have to call each other, etc.? I think this is a completely unnecessary provision, that this should be completely thrown out. It needs to be completely thrown out, for the simple reason - which means nothing. And another thing, so it's not necessary for these staff who are in those places to write - cooperation. They're very cooperative, Mr. Markovic. To remind you of an interview by Boris Tadic, I guess he was then vice president of the Democratic Party, in September 2000, in which he opened his soul, so he says - yes, I was left-handed, under the influence of Dad and Mom, so I left it the moment I read the book. What book? He says -- a book written by Vojislav Kostunica and Costa Chavoski -- and I rejected left-wing ideas, and I became liberals. Don't you understand, Serbian citizens, it's a two-way with a political son and a political father, and what they're supposed to be fighting about, Kobajagi, so that's what father and son argue about a little bit. Why? To deceive the people. It's a two-man, very nice government. He wasn't idolized or Djindjic, or this one, but Vojislav Kostunica, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6861	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6862	I'd just like to say something more about preserving cultural heritage, because on TV and on some...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6863	Based on what member, Mrs. Vukicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6864	Article 225. ... And in some interviews, I see that the Minister of Culture advocates the preservation of cultural heritage. When I say, preserving cultural heritage, unfortunately, in the country of Serbia doesn't mean anything, and when we say, a unique preservation of cultural heritage, that can already mean something. One nation does not fail because of the loss of war, one nation perishes because it is weakened from within, and gives up its tongue, from its thinkers, from its writers, from all that was given to him, and from all that was his cultural heritage. So the people are making treason to themselves. I kind of thought that lately, we've just started to make a big deal out of ourselves, for the reason that I see that we're playing with precosian, Kosovo and post-cosian cycles, which is interpreted in different ways, which Branislav Nusic, through the setting of some directors on theatre boards, can also be interpreted as being someone who wasn't realistic, who didn't realistically paint the Serbian family, but through the interpretation of individual directors, is presented as very primitive. Such settings and such performances tarnish and dirty the reputation of Serbs and Serbian families, traditions. Such plays go abroad and educate our children, who are Serbs, but born somewhere in the West, or it doesn't matter where, in what part of the world. So, I would really like it to be passed, whether it's law, or something else, about preserving cultural heritage, because so far we've made sure that it means nothing, that everyone in their own way interprets everything that we've been left with, from literature, painting and everything else, but that, simply, it's something that we're all going to know and we have to act on. So, a unique preservation of cultural heritage, which will apply to everyone. Then we won't be able to criticize someone and say – look, it tells Mark Kraljević that the thief, this great Mark Kraljević, is going to have the same relationship and we'll know what the values are, what we need to value from what was left for us through culture and through that cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6865	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6866	Article 225, 226. I ask for an explanation from the Minister, the Government, the President of the Assembly, the chairman of the boards of directors, when they will once give us laws that are of value and that are of real use both to the Assembly and to the people. I support what my colleague Krasic said, because this here is a distraction of the Assembly and the people by law on salaries. First of all, you're talking about some standard, world standard, right? Let's change that world standard to the chosen functions. It is known in the world, for example, that there is a ceiling for salaries, for example, firstly the President of the Republic, then the President of the Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Prime Minister or the People's MPs, the Judges of the Constitutional Court, and the Ministers, etc. And what do we have here? You complain at government meetings that the Secretary of State has a higher salary than his minister. So, where's the logic? We in the Assembly, for example, are chief of staff one and a half more salaries than there is an MP. And the officials have the right to what? The chief of staff, for example, counselors? Come on, all of this in one law to confirm, and not here, the Deputy Prime Minister when he's relieved of his duties, then his chief of staff is relieved of his duties, and what about the advisors, what's not going on in the package? Let's make the law right for once and for all for every government, not every government. When are we gonna get to that standard? Are you talking about the world standard, I don't know. But that's why, for example, everyone's saying that MPs have big salaries, which I know, and everybody has bigger than them. To be clear, the Serbian Radical Party is not asking to raise salaries to MPs, but to be level to them, to measure so that ministers have less than MPs. You say there's no money in the budget. Let's work together a little. Give the law on it. When will the law come, instead of one, to only partially satisfy this or that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6867	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Please, Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6868	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, believes that these agenda points should not have been discussed in the Assembly, at least not today, perhaps in some later, future period. Because all that is now on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honoring the exceptions, which can be counted on the fingers of one hand, is only a way to show that the Assembly is doing something. We have 32-33 agenda points, which are scrapped in six, seven, eight call authorities and we need the next days to bring, or the Serbian Parliament should discuss these laws, adopt them and show that something is working. What we should be doing is those laws that are laid down by the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, and we obviously don't. First of all, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia should have chosen not only as an obligation to stand by the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, but because the Constitutional Court is an institution that needs a state of Serbia, but also a constitutional court as an institution that would imply the implementation of the provisions of this law proposed here today. Of course we're not in a position to pass constitutional court laws and conduct a constitutional court election, because the ruling coalition hasn't finished its job yet. For months now, since the formation of the government and the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, a coalition law on prey called the state of Serbia has been carried out behind the scenes. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia should not be surprised when they read in public information means -- this one gets this, the one gets what, I mean public enterprises; they are divided on a party basis. These other things, institutions, organizations and all that is the work of this assembly and government, it's done behind the scenes, but it absolutely has that party dimension. It should not be forgotten that we were three weeks behind the start of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because no agreement could be reached in the ruling coalition regarding the composition of the State Auditing Institution. When we look at these points of the agenda, I don't understand why the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State and Other Holidays is forced by the other three laws, except for one practical reason, which is why these laws in the Assembly should be defended by Mr Markovic, so as not to come two or three times, but to be here while the Assembly discusses these laws. Since the government is very far from the Assembly, not spatially, but by many things, the Government obviously does not want the minister to be exposed to the court of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the public more than they consider necessary, because otherwise, there is no reason that Mr Markovic does not come twice. I think that's really bad. Knowing Mr. Markovic, I don't think he'd come another time and I don't see any reason for that. The ruling coalition, in fact, is doing what suits them, there's no consultation, there's no co-operation, there's nothing called a working method deal. What the ruling coalition thinks is necessary, it proposes and thus is done. You know, there are many examples in the near past of a few months, that it does not bring good to Serbia. When it comes to these bill proposals we're discussing tonight, we at the SPS don't see any reason for the Assembly to declare this. I'm saying this very specifically. When you look at the changes and the additions of this government law, you see certain views that are subject to compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the most important act in this country, was adopted by a vast majority of all MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as MPs also participated in its adoption, and there is a simple sentence -- a obligation to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen in the past few months, black and white, that the government does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If he does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then there is really no reason why we are adopting amendments and amendments to the laws that determine compliance with that constitution, or the implementation of what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to give a few concrete examples to prove these words to you. Namely, since Mr. Markovic is the minister of state administration and local self-government, I will show on the case of local self-government what it looks like when the government implements the constitution. Nothing personal, but the provo minister, all I say is government behavior. The citizens of the Republic may know, may not know, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced temporary authorities into 10 units of local self-government, practically, there is an emergency. It is interesting to know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia introduced a forced administration in the municipality of Užica on 16 November 2006, in Smederevo - 16 November 2006, in Zrenjanin - 16 November 2006, in Babusnica - 1 December 2006, in Valjevo - 28 December 2006. So, in 2006, that previous government. Now it was logical, when a new government was formed, to do something else. It would be logical for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to carry out his part of the work under the jurisdiction prescribed by the law, but there is no part of it. On 12 April 2007, the government of the Republic of Serbia also imposed a forced administration in the municipality of Leskovac, 19 April 2007 -- in Bogatić, 21 April 2007 -- in Kula, 24 May 2007 -- in Velika Gradište and 14 June 2007 -- in Smederevo. Why do I mention government and only government? The Law on Local Self-Government is explicit, he determines the government's obligation to introduce a forced administration when there are reasons for that. The emergency administration should operate for only three months, and in those three months, the temporary body should carry out the work of the congregation of the municipality. After that, citizens of local self-government should declare in the elections who they want as representatives to represent them. However, we have a practical situation that forced the larger one to last for months, and a year, and that nothing happens. We even have some paradoxes. One thing is when a forced administration was introduced because of things that were not implemented, respect for the law at the level of local self-government, but there were cases where the municipality launched an initiative to replace the president of the municipality, and then the citizens were declared, so that the initiative did not pass, the example works, in Bogatic, where the Socialists are. I've heard there's a similar case in the Smederjev Palace. Then what's going on? Instead of shortly after the disbandment of the assembly, after a certain deadline, new elections are being held, so that citizens choose new committees, because others have shown themselves in action as someone who does not work quality, and they have launched an initiative that the citizens did not accept, we have a situation that, at a small door, these people are pushing these people again and then preventing the president of the municipalities from doing their job. It's an example from Richman. I don't happen to mention this - the government, government, government, and again government, because the bill we're discussing tonight seems to me, in the first or second term, to call for an agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 192, paragraph 1, where it is said - the government is obliged to do so. It's interesting, I know this is the subject of another law, but it shows how the government of the Republic of Serbia works in Serbia, how it treats local self-government. In this position of the 3rd member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which everyone swears, which the government obviously does not respect and implement in an extremely suspicious, selective and, finally, party-like manner, stands, black in white - at the same time as the disbanding SO, the Government appoints a temporary body, which performs the tasks of the Assembly's authority, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly. So it would be logical, when the government appoints that temporary authority, to take care of party and national composition, if it is local self-government units in national mixed environments. What does it look like in practice? I'm going to give you very specific examples again. So, in Uzic, I have already said that forced administration was introduced on 16 November 2006, the composition of the body consists of two DS members, one DSS member and one - G17 Plus New Serbia. It's not the assembly of a local self-government unit. So until the government changed this composition, he had had nine sessions before and had not met since, because they cannot agree on the agenda. The pleasures are a large municipality, a very significant municipality and a lot of people live there. The government has allowed five people to own their lives and their fate on a local scale on behalf of everyone, calling, of course, on behalf of them alone. This example shows that the Government does not respect the Constitution and this composition of the provisional body is not made up of the same composition and structure of the SO according to the party, i.e. by belonging to certain political parties. Brown. The government introduced a forced administration in Smederev on 16 November 2006. In early July 2007, the new government, if it was an anthema on the previous one, then the previous one did not know what it was doing, and this new government, in early July 2007, appointed a temporary body, which consisted of two DS members, two DSS members and one G17 Plus member. I've already mentioned the rest, so G17 plus, and before, the absolute point is that the composition of that temporary body corresponds to the composition of the government. Of course, for other coalition partners they found other places, other functions, other public enterprises, or local utility companies, which the people would say, that the wolf would be full, and the sheep would be numbered, and the citizens would be. So, after the adoption of the Constitution, the government of the Republic of Serbia did absolutely the opposite of Article 192(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and here in the bill of law says - the government should, and ministers, swear an oath. I must tell you, no offense, that it is extremely strange, empty, so it sounds like these words where the minister, in Article 4, should, a member of the Government, swear to the Republic of Serbia with my honor, I would not comment on it, so it goes on to say, "I am obliged to respect the Constitution and the law, that I am going to be in government duty, etc., etc. Here, I give you two very clear examples of how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is respected. I said I wouldn't comment on that part of the oath. Zrenjanin, an emergency administration was introduced on 16 November 2006. Another colleague, next to me, asked the president of the National Assembly, Mr Dulic, to call the elections, but the question is when, since it was 16 November 2006, and today it is October 1st 2007. So 11 months and 14 days have passed since there's been a forced administration. So, people, 11 months and 14 days, five people run a community like Zrenjanin. They simply, on the party's principle, made the distribution of what can be distributed at the level of local self-government and these five people have been carrying out the tasks of their party bodies for 11.5 months. The composition of the body, since there is an official messenger that prescribes it, also corresponds to the structure of the government, not the structure of the municipality. So another example of how the government respects the constitution it calls upon and swears to. Grandmother, 1. December 2006. So it's been 10 months, and the government still there, that is, has changed the previous government's decision and has now appointed a temporary body only by that criteria. Of course, members of the DS, the DSS. The government did not react only in those municipalities where such a structure had already been established. Someone mentioned Valjevo today, and then had no need to do such a thing, to emulate the provisional body, according to the personnel structure, the needs of the government, instead of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but to leave it standing. I also mentioned the example of Leskovec several times, and again, until I hear from Mr. Dulic an adequate answer, and the tragic thing about Leskovac is that, in practice, all those jobs within the organs of which the local self-government is responsible are distributed. They obviously, before the government agreed on a new republican level, after the newspaper was full of statements, articles on how public enterprises had deployed, in Leskovac, right before that, for every job. Believe me, here I have a job systematization, the most tragic thing in the whole story is that up there stands DSS, DSS and G17 plus, and there's New Serbia and there's exactly what belongs to who on that basis. I must tell you that the same situation is in other municipalities where local self-government is introduced, in Bogatić, in Kula, in Velika Gradište, in Smederjevska Palanca. I cited 10 examples, black on white, where the government's attitude towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is seen. Today, when we are to discuss, me, and I hope most of you, and I am fully convinced -- and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watch this transmission, someone needs to convince that they respect the Constitution, I mean the congregational majority. Here's 10 examples from municipalities that show they don't respect the Constitution. Do not appeal to the constitutional law provision and that laws will be passed that will pave the way for local elections, because this is a matter concerning all units of local self-government. Here we have 10 units of local self-government in which elections can be called and allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make their own decision on who should represent them. Nothing epochal will happen if elections are held in these 10 units of local self-government, because only when elections are held, then the minister, or any other member of the government, can come out for this pay phone and say, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is something I will respect. Until then, I'm sorry, but these are empty words and are only meant for their party public, because I don't believe anyone can come out and call for the respect of the Constitution, and here are 10 examples of how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not respected. There's really no need to discuss this law tonight, because it's a pro form, because life goes to someone else during. I have read the Ministry's opinion and in one part they are calling for the Law on Local Self-Government to be brought new, until then all of this, and at the same time they are calling for the same law and they are making solutions that are contrary to the Constitution. The claim that they are acting as the old government is not an excuse, but evidence that the constitution is being violated. If the old government broke the constitution, then I guess the new one won't. There's no reason to vote on something, because they say they acted that way, so so will we. It's something that socialists absolutely convince us that we shouldn't vote for these laws. One more thing. It's been pretty easy to change and supplement the State Holiday Act. I will remind some, as my colleague Krasic has well noticed, unfortunately, some colleagues are not fully in a position to find out what is the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will read only two dates and this will be interesting for many MPs, as well as for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, two dates, and these are now the national holidays of the Republic of Serbia. One is the Day of Work, for the forgetful, the Day of Work. The occasion was on May 1, 1886, when hundreds of thousands of workers in Chicago began to rebel, fighting for the acceptance of eight-hour working hours. At the Second International Congress of Internacional, the Second International Congress, that is, at the First Congress of the Second International, in 1889, it was decided to be a common holiday for all countries in which the working class should manifest the unity of its demands and its class solidarity on 1 May. Just for these demagogues and others to know what May 1st, Labor Day. When it comes to Victory Day, this will be much more interesting, given that it's about that story about Partisans and Chetniks. It's free to pass laws involving Chetniks as part of an anti-fascist coalition, when history says something completely different. On May 9, 1945, Fascism was finally overcome. That day is celebrated as the Day of Victory, as the day of the final end of World War II, although, formally, you know, only later ended World War II, with the capitulation of Japan, as atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But history can't change. Dear colleagues, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are free to pass laws that equalize the Chetniks with the partisans, history is inexorable. You shouldn't have, because it turned out to be a big mess when the 50th anniversary of the Moscow Victory Day was marked, when our representatives were in the back row, and they were in the back row because a few months earlier, there was talk in this assembly of equalising the rights of the Chetniks and the Partisans and that the Chetniks were part of the anti-fascist coalition, which, of course, was not true either then or cannot be changed now. I mentioned this as an example, so fellow MPs would know what they would vote for. Maybe some of them will act the way they did when they voted for some DOS personnel, like -- keep their hands in a certain place to numb, not to know what they're voting for, but obviously, they're going to vote for this, because so many government issues have gone into some strange extreme, that now they have to put themselves back on a certain track. Anyway, it's something this country needs, because it's part of history and part of the lives of many people, which makes them special. We Socialists respect that, but these other laws that are the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were not needed by Serbia tonight, perhaps in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6869	Thank you to MP Zarko Obradovic. Advertise Rules of Procedure Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6870	Articles 101, 104, and I don't order any more members. I only went out because it didn't confuse the public. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, before saying his personal position, called for someone my previous exposure. I don't share his opinion, I don't want to make any controversy, but I need to clarify some things. Not taking into account chronology, what was going on, whether it was 8, 9, or, on our territory, May 15, I'm not getting into these things, but it exists as an international date on May 9, 1945 - Victory Day, May 9th. The former SFRY, why don't you say, Serbian people, are proud to celebrate that date. Why? Because it was part of the anti-hitler coalition, because it was the part that fought Fascism. We couldn't conquer Berlin, but we were able to destroy all the servants of the fascist regime, first of all, NDH and so many troops, etc. So much for May 9th. The way he's experiencing it, that's his thing, that's how I'm experiencing it. Serbia should celebrate it, for the simple reason, which has always been anti-fascist. Serbs were always anti-fascist people. Serbs are known for it as the free people. Serbs are known for their freedom, if necessary, to sacrifice both life and everything else. After all, even today, during the debate, at first we all concluded that we should be in solidarity with the citizens of Cuba. As for May 1st, it is the sighting of Mr. Zarko Obradovic and I do not dispute it. It's all true what he said. I don't even dispute that, Mr. Obradovic, these before you are members of the Socialist International, I don't argue that these behind you are supposed to be liberals, but what about, "bando red," you know, without them, you can't. I don't argue that there are many, both in front of you and behind you, those who are still at the 8th session. It's undeniable. However, I must very precisely tell you, the Day of Work should be depoliticalized. I must remind you that there is a holiday of work in America too. I may not be precise, is this the first week, the second week, whether September or October, the Day of Work is a holiday that celebrates the right to work. This is still ideologically marked in some way. Let it be so, let it go, as in the Federal Assembly, even a few years ago, resolved in a very acceptable way, by consensus of all political parties etc. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I found it necessary to come out to explain only these things, so that there is no sign of equality between what Mr. Obradovic and I said. I don't dispute his opinion, that we understand each other, but that in the story of the celebration in Europe, someone is calling for some law two years ago, where they're even in the rights of all those who raised a gun against the enemy in this territory and that, in doing so, we now need to get back into a situation to deal with some history, Mr. Obradovic, I don't want to. I think there's one very nice law that binds us all and, if it binds us, then give it, if it hurts so much, blink a little bit, you don't have to say everything, because you're causing a chain of completely unnecessary replicas, and from the point of view of the subject, and from the point of view of time, and from the point of view of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6871	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is Zarko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6872	Thanks to my colleague Krasic, I agree with this last one, because if I have to refrain from reacting, then he should, too, because he had a chance to discuss this subject two years ago and didn't participate in the conversation then. If it's not then, I don't see any reason to come back to this subject right now. It was something that was part of Serbia's political life and part of the assembly debate. Now, while I don't like many things the way they are, some other majority have made a decision, so has this agenda point, that's not the reason why I, and some of my other colleagues, who share these values that we socialists stand for, we don't say publicly, when there's some convenient opportunity, like today's debate on state holidays law, what we think about that day and what we think is bad, and what Serbia has done. We think it was bad to pass that law and the whole story of equalizing rights. The law was only a cause of the story of equalising the rights of Chetniks and partisans, essentially, was to prove that the Chetniks were part of the anti-hitler coalition, and that is not possible, because they simply were not. When it comes to this second issue, the celebration of May 1st, unfortunately, many citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not know what is on May 1st, what happened in the XIX century, in 1880 and some years, and why that day is celebrated, is being marked worldwide. I only tried to get to know the National Assembly and MPs with the significance of that date, and on them remains how they will use it, how they will mark it, how they will manifest. After all, it is not just a matter of MPs, not just citizens, and unions have their own vision of that date and the way they mark it; everyone will do it in a way that they think is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6873	Thank you, Dr. Obradovic. There is a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6874	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Markovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Krasic, 800,000 fighters, in 67 divisions, ended the fight against fascism in the SFRY on 9 May. So that's as many fighters as this whole NATO is now in Europe. These others were about 25,000 and, let's not classify them, some of them, unfortunately, permanently disappeared in Bayburg, and that is a war crime, I dare say, we know what we're talking about, but everything else here can't be relativated. So, once again, since today is October 1st, the day when members of the People's Liberation Movement and the Partisan Squad of Dr Dragisa Misovic released Cačak from the Germans and thus started the first square kilometers of free territory, which was later called the Užičko Republic, unfairly 'Užička', because it was created in Cačka, I am obliged to say once again that I remember with pride all those who did so, at the time when complete Europe was enslaved. As far as Labor Day is concerned, the three eights are, Mr. Krasic, the base of the union struggle, which is paid for by life, and therefore red is marked on May 1st - eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours of cultural ascension. These assets of the socialist and socio-democratic parties, and they should -- all trade unions, there's no dispute in that. Therefore, since you yourself have suggested that we do not open this debate, I said to save my soul, and you will save yours now, and then I will not. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6875	The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, who also advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Vladan Batic, certainly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Mr. Gristle, you probably had a chance to hear what I said. I really can't figure out why these gentlemen tried to talk about something I didn't talk about. I don't know what right you're telling me that I need to know, how do you know that I don't know that, and in my speech, I didn't even touch that. I didn't touch that, absolutely, but this is a kind of manipulation. You know, the manipulation is that someone finds some topic where they think they can profit from something and act the same way as a columnist or a journalist, so they put something in your mouth that you've never said. I just didn't talk about what you were talking about. I criticized the government for not going with a whole new law, which would accommodate all those dates that were already, in some way, accepted, which in that federal law, which in this republic. But, no, you have the need to turn what I said, to make it look like I was saying something else, and I didn't even mention it. I don't know, you see, Gabrielovich, and I, some words I didn't even mention, they mentioned and they used those words. I can figure out why you're doing it and what's the occasion, just make sure that you don't mistake the accounts in an incorrect way and in a poor interpretation, so you don't overdo it. This is no threat, that we understand each other, and we understand each other, but take care, because I get the impression that you have shown this inaccuracy to my personality because you know my attitudes. If you do that, it's your choice and your commitment, but I won't let you say that I said some things I didn't mention, I won't let anyone do that. That's all I called to tell you that you went out and said something I didn't say. For your knowledge, in all these things I've been doing for several years, I've mastered the data so well, the generalized data, which is being challenged by someone from the world, about Jasenovac and all our sites, that you have no moral right to call me, especially in such a rude way, to say something I didn't say. I don't want to discuss this with you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6877	I thank Mr. Krasic. I don't think there's any need to be angry, Mr. Krassic, it wasn't an evil intention, I'm sure. The word has been issued by the MP, Dr Vladan Batic, advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6878	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. It is nice to have 32 laws on Parliament's agenda today, or 34, anyway, but it is obvious that there is no atmosphere here for some serious work; the whole atmosphere resembles that - "The house is burning and the grandmother is combing." Why? Because there's something called the hierarchy of legal acts. Because first is the Constitution, then the Constitutional Law, and then some basic, general, structural, priority law. The one who doesn't know doesn't have to be a lawyer, it's written in the Constitutional Law. I deliberately and persistently, perhaps for the tenth time after this speaker, ask the President of the Assembly and repeat that a country that does not have a Constitutional Court cannot be a legal state, but I use the minister's presence to ask a few questions. Since there is often controversy in the media about when there will be new elections, the coalition partners argue over it, and the new elections should be preceded by a whole set of laws, as stated in Article 3. The constitutional law, the question, is when will the law be passed on the election of the President of the Republic, the law on defence, the law on the Serbian Army, the law on foreign affairs, the law on security services, the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the law on local self-government, the law on local elections and the law on the capital? Today is October 1st, there will be state holidays and religious holidays by the end of the year, when do you think these laws are written, proposed and adopted? They're a guess for the election, or are you going to call the election according to existing laws? Furthermore, Article 5 provides that by the end of this session, laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of courts, the election and termination of the office of judge and judge presidents, the law on the High Council of Justice, the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of public prosecutors and the election and termination of the office of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, the law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Do you know what kind of business this is? That folk song says, "If you're a fairy and you have wings, you can't do this." We're dealing with a whole set of laws, which, let's say, are so courteous, important, but completely insignificant to what it says in the Constitutional Law and what I've just read. The laws on the agenda today should be in line with the Constitution by the end of next year, and that fact itself says they are not important. They may have, but only to create an illusion of how Parliament works intensively and how it has adopted 35 laws, and we will adopt 350 laws and various conventions, so what does that mean? Here's the last one. The last thing we've ratified is the CEFTA Agreement, so we're listening to the controversy that we're not going to recognise that agreement. Em, we're not using the effects, because we're late, and now we're saying no when it comes to oil and oil derivatives, we're not interested in CEFTA. That's irresponsible. One more thing, when I mentioned the laws on courts and prosecutors, Mr. Vice President, I hope you'll tolerate me, because I've been listing all this from the Constitutional Law, so don't take this time away from me. I've just been to the White Church. A man named Djan Jonel, head of the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, although I don't know what the head of the municipal public prosecutor means, but because in Serbia we had a pensioner as a state prosecutor for two years, and now we have a V.D. A state or republican prosecutor, therefore there is an institution called the head of the municipal public prosecutor's office. But I don't want to discredit a man, because he showed courage, he made his own time when he visited the Minister of Justice, Zoran Stojkovic himself, to pressure the minister himself to file criminal charges against the owner and editor-in-chief of the Independent Radio and Television 'TNT', a man called Stefan Cvetkovic, because he showed on his television that some members of the MUP were blowing up cocaine and, more importantly, because he pointed out on his television the malversions of a municipal official, or councilman, a member of the party of the former minister of justice. One more thing, I asked the president of the Assembly -- when about 20,000 citizens will find an initiative to amend the Law on Broadcasting, or to abolish the TV subscription. Ma'am, or Mrs. Vukicevic, mentioning some TV series and associated with those beautiful times, she asked me to ask a few questions on behalf of the DHSS, because some media, who had the courage to pass it on, had partially mistranslated it, and others, who became an agitprop ruling coalition, must not pass it on. The questions are, I would like the answers to be negative, is it true that RTS has concluded a contract to record TV series with the production house "Ava" from Croatia? Is it true that this series will be recorded in Serbia and that the roles are entrusted to our actors? Is it true that this series will have 100 episodes, each of which will last 54 minutes? Is it true that RTS will pay 1000 euros for a minute of recorded series to the Croatian producer house Ava, which would mean over five million for the whole series? I'm just asking if it's true. Why didn't RTS, as a public service that has 3,700 employees and its own drama directorate, record this show on its own? If he can't do that, why not through some local producer's house? What is the profit for the mentioned production house from Croatia, that is, what is the damage to pay for those who pay, against the constitution, and there is no Constitutional Court to declare it, a radio-television subscription? Has RTS, as a public firm, been obliged to open a tender for the recording of such a TV series and has the government been aware of this, has it approved and is it proud? So, I'm not saying anything, just on behalf of the DHSS, I'm asking it publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6879	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6880	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to wrong interpretation. I am fully convinced that neither colleague Baralic nor I deserve the words we are told. We used the theme session of the Assembly, our party attitude and our vision of certain events. There's nothing personal, it's a program thing, in this case, for us historically. Everything else is in this session's stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-01-0.u6881	Since there are no more speakers on these points of the agenda, I am concluding a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of State Employees and Deputys and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. I'm finishing the session today. The session will continue tomorrow, at 10 o'clock, on the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
