ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5963	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meeting is attended by 90 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanovic, Nenad Canak and Nebojsa Rangelovic. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – The election of the President, Vice-President and Members of the Council of the State Auditory Institution, from the list submitted by the Finance Committee, has been received by the Committee of the Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council of the State Auditory Institution. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – one hour, 16 minutes 48 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group G17 plus – 22 minutes and 48 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, the parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, the Parliamentary group of minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley – 7 minutes and 12 seconds, the parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM – 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does National MP Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? He's not here. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Cedomir Jovanovic. I am informing the MPs that the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group on this agenda is MP Veroljub Arsic, and MP groups of the SPS are MP Borka Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5964	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the motionor of this agenda to withdraw his proposal. We think that the decision parliament must make, the election of members of the State Auditing Institution, is very serious, and we are forced to withdraw this item of the agenda because of Mrs Natalija Ćatovic's unacceptable candidacy. I think neither the committee in charge nor all the signatories of the proposal that, among other things, Mrs Ćatovic is running for this responsible function, they did not actually know all the data from the professional biography of candidates. The point is, as far as we know, about the candidacy behind which Velimir Ilic's party, New Serbia, formally stood. As for Mrs Ćatovic, the least important thing is that she was when the Socialist Party of Serbia, we don't want to delude in this, but she was suspected of breaking the law. Against it in time, I think that is enough, as the Democratic opposition to Serbia, to file a criminal report because, as a member of the Election Commission in the municipality of Topola, it participated in violations of the electoral law and concealment of election results during 2000. I don't want us to talk about the details of Mrs. Ćatovic's biography here right now, but obviously it is a person who cannot meet the strict criteria that follow work in such an important institution as the State Audit Institute. So I'd like to ask the Proposer to withdraw this proposal and then go out with another candidate, which we might be able to support. Otherwise, we are prepared to support the work of this institution because we consider it important and necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5965	Thank you very much. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here's a word from MP Borka Vukic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5966	Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President and the Presidency, I have the honour and pleasure to speak of a very interesting item of the agenda, a very important economic and financial institution that should start working and that is a very important institution throughout the world and that is at the beginning with us. As an MP for the SPS list, here, I've been given the trust and it's a great honor to do that because I believe that with such institutions, for some 40 years of working experience in business banks, I've only benefited and had the opportunity to work mainly on prevention. So it's not just about an institution that is a control, state or other, but it's also about a certain preventive role of this kind of institution that, if we had it before, might have brought better and more efficient work to the Assembly itself. It is indisputable that the management of the public finances of a country everywhere in the world, so it should also be with us, not just a matter of politics, but of professions, and it's very complex. We are introducing this institution the last of all countries in the environment as well as the former Yugoslav republics. The 2007 budget debate that we all experienced recently, which one of our colleagues called overheated and haired budget, had also been prepared, and planned, and proposed, and a budget explanation, and reporting and everything else, but it was all without one over the necessary basis. We haven't had final accounts for almost all years, since the arrival of the new government since 2000, as well as the credited balances. And without that, the balance has been adopted, which shows that it is high time and that the State Auditing Institution is necessary for us. The 2007 budget envisions only 9 million dinars, over 90% of which are for employees, and everything else is not planned. This shows how serious this proposal is. It is especially important that the work of the accompanying services is kept in mind, because this is just one piece of advice, one supreme institution. I think the most important thing is that the affairs of this institution are done not only in accordance with the law, which means, but also by highly professionally trained personnel with rich and diverse experience in the field of public finances. The reason for insisting on this fact is that the state audit institution of Serbia is expected to operate without political influence, on professional and legal powers, based. I shall, in particular, set out Article 17 and Article 18. The Law on the State Auditing Institution, which specifically refers to conflict of interest by members of the Council. Given the party membership of members of the Finance Committee, whose member I am, and how to draw up a list of candidates, it is now clear that the executive authority will control itself with the help of this institution. As the people say, "Cadya sues you, cadia sues you." The list of proposed candidates is composed of two DS candidates, two DSS candidates and one G17 Plus candidate. Could the State Auditing Institution be an independent institution, in accordance with the Law, if we do not have an opposition representative? According to the committee's proposal, which has decided after more delays and party blackmails, the future Serbian budget auditor will be everything, but will not be independent of the executives of an independent institution, which should allow the segment to be more transparent of public finances. In order to ensure this, it is necessary that personnel who perform these tasks be of the world of profession. First of all, they should have the opportunity to resist knowledge through potential political or other influences, not from the area of the authority of the profession and knowledge, but from interesting, political or economic spheres, which would reduce or deplace the significant role of this institution and discourage all efforts to in modern terms and in line with European standards of regulation and to realise the management of public finances. It must come from the fact that it is impossible to choose good staff for these jobs, if in any way personal proposals are solely linked to the trust of political parties. I must point out that there are also capable, skilled and decent people in Serbia who know how to manage public finances. They have a great and rich experience in performing high-level and important jobs, and they were not related to any political party. Therefore, a list of candidates should be extended so that everyone who declares themselves in this assembly, our people, the whole public, realizes that it is not possible to find the right experts who have not only enough professional authority, but also moral qualities. We need all MPs to present a list of individual candidates, not by party commitment, but by all other qualities. I've noticed, by analyzing the list of these five candidates, that the list is very unequal, it's not as patterns as it should be, so you can't even get a real impression of these candidates, or what we need, and what we need our citizens to see, that an institution like this has candidates that meet these conditions. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group, realizing this problem as a whole, has made two proposals that have not been made absolutely on the Committee... We've tried to meet all these criteria and other criteria that I'm going to talk about later, find a middle-aged candidate, professional, wide-ranging experience, education, and someone a little younger. Of course, we found a candidate like that. We are proud that the SPS has acted in one direction that we need to select members of the council of this important institution. Let's start with a female candidate, because I respect ladies, because there are a few ladies here, and there could be more. Our candidate, Nada Mijlovic, everyone knows her, has been SDK's director in the old Yugoslavia for a long time. She's a candidate who almost can't be equal to any of these candidates on this list. He's got an economic college. She's got master's work, she's spent enough in the economy, enough in extra-economic institutions, in state institutions. She worked in the field of transforming property into private property, as an assistant minister. She spent most of her working life right here in this institution, and that's when we had a major transformation, and she's already started the stabilisation process. As Director of the SDK branch, she managed all the affairs set out in the Law. She was independent and independent in the ministry and was responsible for her work to the Republika Srpska Assembly. So it's about internal and external control of all legal entities in the economy and out of business. At the jobs of the Director-General of the PDO, who employed about 8,000 workers throughout our former Yugoslavia, she handled and was responsible for the country's payment services and control tasks within the framework of the law. At the time, she was involved in the development of a legislative part of the work programme of the Republic and the federal government in front of the institutions she managed. For the Director of the Republic Agency for the Assessment of Capital Value, she managed the business and activities defined by the law on the Republic Agency and the law on conditions and the process of converting social property into other forms. It is about the control of the revaluation of the value of the company's capital, which made the conversion of social property into other forms of property. Therefore, this is just a few details of this candidate whom our parliamentary group stands for. It is evident that one of these profiles, economically-financial, represents the right person, who should be one of the members of this council. So, I said it's middle-aged, for me they're all middle-aged. She was born in 1948, and our second candidate Rajko Peric, he's younger, he's 1956. He is also a financial and banking expert mostly since 1997. It is also, like Hope, an economist, also a master and now prepares a doctoral dissertation. With experience over 10 years of work mostly in banks, in Novosadska Banka, now in the new conditions of "Erste Banka", when other banks, in collaboration with other houses, are eventually on the job of assistant branch directors at the Post Office. If there is one institution in Serbia that is most important to run primarily for professional and only proven personnel, then it is this State Auditing Institution. If these basic conditions are not secured, then it is not certain that sufficient professional and each other will be provided through the necessary authority of this institution, which is just beginning in Serbia. The state audit institution should be a signal to everyone not to tolerate financial indiscipline in spending state money, especially in the situation we now have. We don't have final accounts that have been audited for the last five years. Finance ministers are not relieved of their duties under the legal procedure, following the adoption of the final account by the competent authority, at the competent assembly, so our situation here is very complicated. I estimate that the proposal for a list of candidates of the Finance Committee reflects their own strength, purely party, without respecting the essential legal conditions and similar criteria. I had it on the Finance Committee. It is particularly unacceptable on this high-level legislative body to degrade the opposition's proposal, which is reportedly offered the possibility of co-operation. I would therefore highlight some of the key elements that should be taken into account during the debate at today’s National Assembly meeting, and regarding item 7 of the agenda. It is about the need for another filtering of the proposal for a list of candidates based on professional, experienced and moral conditions. I would only appeal to a law adopted two years ago, a declaration of the Law on the State Auditory Institution, to Article 17 and Article 18. I will only take two points of Article 17 that say: "The function of a member of the Council is not compatible with: 1) the function of the state authority, the authorities of local authorities or the public authority holder and the function of political parties or trade unions; 2) the work of the state authority, local authorities or public authority holders." Article 18 is very important that we MPs understand our responsibility in this part as well. Article 18(2) states: "A member of the Board shall not be able to participate and decide in the audit procedure if he has been employed by persons who are subject to review or perform certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if he has not spent five years since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work. "That applies to all candidates. I warn you, we MPs should not support this list that violates Article 18 and Article 17. The Law on the State Auditing Institution, especially when it comes to conflict of interest and when it comes to selecting such candidates, which I apologize to, I do not say that they are bad candidates and have no experience, but this profile in these five candidates is not fully and individually met. The list should be returned to the Finance Committee and a new proposal, with a number of equal candidates. I'm in favour, and our MP club SPS is pushing for MPs in their debate to set this up for the National Assembly on new proposals. Otherwise, without the efficient functioning of the State Auditing Institution, we will only contribute to the halting of the fight against negative trends in the fight against corruption, the damage to privatisation and the process of economic development and society in general. We also believe that it is clear to all MPs that the estimated funds of only nine million dinars are not enough for the professional apparatus of this significant financial institution, especially when compared to other predicted and larger consumers in the 2007 budget. I don't mean to mention culture, but I'd take it as an example... Let's just ask the minister, but the minister doesn't have any from the Ministry of Finance to tell me which group of consumers this institution was in in 2007, though it may be added. The assessment is that she didn't pay any real attention to it. MPs should not allow this kind of aberration and demeaning of the opposition's proposal, whose candidates are professional, experienced and moral personnel. That's exactly how the SPS group stood out as candidates, and to show that they were there and that we were proud to find them so quickly. Finally, the election issue of candidates for members of the National Auditing Institution of Serbia is not just a matter of selecting professional, moral and competent personnel. This issue is at the same time a confirmation of real democracy, which many parties in the Assembly are so hearty about, but only on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5967	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a story that's been going on for a little over two years. The story began with the draft law on the state audit institution. An authorised representative of the proposings Mr Radojko Obradovic, whom I would like to see here in the hall as a member of the Parliament and as rapporteur of the Committee on Proposed Candidates, opened the story as regards the State Auditing Institution. The bill itself, as it is, with certain shortcomings, to say, can enter into some particular application, the idea is basically good, because certainly the state with such a government, with such ministers, needs a state audit institution. The story went further, that it should be a professional, independent body that will check how budget users spend people's money. The law was passed in 2005 and never entered into application as it is, in that original form, and in 2007, we have amendments and additions to the law, and it is said that the conditions provided for by the basic law are so strict for members of the State Auditing Institution's council that there is no one to apply, that there is no one to apply, so we need to lower these criteria so that we finally form a council, and then the State Auditing Institution, and to begin to control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, budgetary users. You've made changes and additions. Now, here we are with the candidates' proposals. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for candidates proposed by the Finance Committee, but not because the SRS was against the State Auditing Institution and the control of the People's Couples, but because the criteria here were not the profession, there was no knowledge, there was no honesty, but the criteria were political membership. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's right, I'll tell you on a few examples, but let's get back to the very session of the Finance Committee. I was surprised by what was happening at that session. The material of the proposed candidates was obtained by the MPs at the session itself. No candidate has competed with the Finance Committee alone, or we did not have such candidates in the material. The candidates we discussed were proposed by political parties. I wish there was a real competition for members of the council, that people of the profession had applied, that the Finance Committee had all the candidates, that none of the political parties were behind it, but that we should watch their expertise, biography, achievements from that area, how many works they published, whether they were involved in scientific work on the revision, etc. None of it was. DS candidates, DSS, G17, SPS etc. were given, and the SRS did not want to participate in the farce. We just made our remarks on the Finance Committee, something little about candidate biographies and left here to discuss both candidates in the Serbian Parliament and how you form this state audit institution. That's what's behind this proposal, the way it is, and it's done by this principle, as Mr. Radojko said, when the law was passed, that it would be a state audit institution as an independent body... I'll go back to my biography later, I'd just like to read articles 17 and 18. Law on the State Auditing Institution. Article 18 states: The position of a member of the council is not compatible with the function of the state authority, local authorities or public authority holder and the function in political parties or trade unions. It's in article 17 that you broke the law, not in one number, but in several parts. First, a function in the state authority – are there, of the proposed candidates, candidates currently working in the state authority? There is. We'll read their biographies later. They're very high-ranking in the state authority and they're very close to the state body's money, right from the Democratic Party. Can you say that there is no function in the political party or that he is not a member of the political party for all these candidates discussed by the Finance Committee? You can't, because you're proposing as political parties. They didn't come alone, they applied, so we on the Finance Committee, if we have to sit down for 10 days, to discuss each candidate, to eliminate first, to narrow down the circle, to choose on the Finance Committee. No, the Finance Committee was supposed to be just a farce, political parties pushing their political equalists and accomplices, I can say freely, in criminal acts. Not all of these candidates, but many of them. Can you tell that there are no function carriers in the organs of the local government? You can't, too. One of the candidates is the municipal public defender. So far, he has represented the municipality in several disputes, so he understands the financial business. That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, when DOS in its third mutation is trying to fool the citizens and this assembly. Point 2) of Article 17: "The function of a member of the Council is not compatible with the work of a state authority, local authority or public authority body, 3) with a member of a management or supervision body of a company", you also have such candidates, "public enterprise, fund, compulsory social security organisation or another legal person with a participation in state capital. "There I would stop at Article 17 and move on to Article 18, which says in the second position: "A member of the Council cannot participate and decide in the audit process, if he has been employed by a person who has been audited or has performed certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if it has not been five years since the termination of that employment or the completion of the job. "Employed proposings in the Finance Committee, when we read it, say – that is not true, it will no longer be in the Ministry of Finance when it is elected as a member of the council. Let her resign at the Ministry of Finance before she's elected member of the council, let's see if she risks it, to prove that her waist is in front of the political party and in front of the workplace. Of course, since she's such a great expert, as we can see, the Ministry of Finance can do without her, as soon as she gets to the council. Since he's such an expert, let him get into the economy a little bit, let him make a second contribution, don't spend people's money. Have him prove himself there, then apply for a member of the council, and we choose them every five years, wait for the next election. This is about DS, DSS, G17 plus and NS wanting to set up their political counterparts to protect their crime at the State Audit Institute. I'll just read your biographies a little bit. Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic, proposed for the president of the State Auditing Institution, has been working in the National Bank of Serbia for 15 years, currently working on the affairs of an independent expert co-worker of the National Bank of Serbia's branch. Now to ask a question – what does Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic think of controlling the business of the National Bank of Serbia, spending public funds, or budget money? He can't. It will be done by another member of the council, and he cannot in this audit process. Let's see a candidate for Vice-President of the State Auditing Institution, Ljubica Nedeljkovic, proposed by the Democratic Party, says - the current position of senior adviser to the Ministry of Finance - the Treasury Administration, right where the money is, the Budget Preparation Sector, right where they are being released. As Head of the Budgetary System Group, he performs the most complex tasks in the domain of the budgetary system (the creation of laws and sublegislative acts) and the tasks of the system of financing of compulsory social security organisations (the development and monitoring of pension funds, the WHO and the National Employment Service). On the budget of nearly half a million, there are also access to mandatory social security and health care funds, etc. At the very least, what the Democratic Party has proposed is immoral. How do you think Mrs, or Miss Ljubica Nedeljkovic participates in any process of reviewing any budget user? She's at the Treasury. The budget system is so designed that the vault controls all budget users in the territory of the Republic. They only work through sub-accounts they have, but the vault is the one that approves or does not approve of the funds. That's how the Budgetary System Act was made. So he's in control. At this point, she can learn the state of any budget user, approve or stop any spending of money, whether it is located in Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica, in Vranja, anywhere. And you're the one who made her vice president of the State Audit Institution Council! That's what it looks like when a DOS waist does. It has nothing to do with the profession. Let's take a look at the other candidates. Candidate Natalija Ćatović – SO Topol's solution of 5. Ten. In 2004, it was appointed municipal public defender, where it still stands today. As far as the profession is concerned, here's how it explains it – the jobs she's been working on are related to representation in major-value disputes, so she knows the area of finance. So she represented the municipality in some disputes and she knows the area of finance. I'd like to know how many disputes she's won, as a colleague of Radeta says. Then it means that every lawyer who represented any company, if you represent the company, is nothing more than a financial dispute, has the right to be a member of the council. Let's get back to the law and what you've done with the law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The law was passed in 2005. Such, in that original form, never came into service. In 2007, however, you made changes to the Law on the State Auditing Institution, voted, so you asked that candidates for members of the State Auditing Institution Council not have to have seven years of work experience in the area of finance anymore, but have reduced to five. The explanation of your and Mr. Radojko Obradovic was – we do not have enough experts to deal with the audit and the State Auditing Institution. Is that right? It's not. I can say it's a lie. Now I'm going to read you the names of the candidates who applied a year before the amendments and additions to the Law on the State Auditing Institution and reduced criteria were made. This was delivered to the Serbian Parliament on 4 May 2006. The changes and additions to the reduction criteria were made a year later. Here is who applied for members of the Council: Prof. Dr. Slobodan Malinović, Dean of the Faculty of Economics in Kragujevac, Chairman of the Committee for Ethics and Education in the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia. The second candidate was Professor Dr Blagoje Novicevic, a pro-decessor of the Faculty of Economics in Nis. The third candidate was master Darko Nikolic, an authorised auditor. Are all these three candidates better than all those you suggested? They did. Then what do they miss? They're not in your political parties or maybe they're not in either one, but they're not in yours and they won't work for you, ironing your abuses while you spend budgets. That's why the Finance Committee didn't discuss these candidates. You don't stand behind them and they won't stand behind you if they're going to audit you, and that's your problem. Why is that your problem? Because your conscience is not clean while you spend budget funds and because the revision should strengthen your abuses, abuse of the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia and protect those two, punks Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, and how they spent money on the oil industry of Serbia and why the director is not responding. It is not possible for business to get a positive rating from auditors with the most important profession. That is why the Serbian Radical Party advocates that this work is not done by political parties, but rather by dealing with people who possess knowledge, expertise, experience, regardless of party belongings, if they care about it and do not want to be defiled by someone's name and use to protect someone. We also care about their political commitment if they respect certain criteria of their trade. If that were the case and we weren't afraid of the auditors, we proved it to you both in 2001, 2002 and 2003, until today. No one, ladies and gentlemen, has done better than you have to review the ministries in which the ministers from the Serbian Radical Party were. Except for some articles in the paper, there were no abuses. When it comes to you and doing your audits, it is hard for this current government, and for former Vojislav Kostunica, and for her to rule Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic... 99% of ministers would end up in Pogorevec, which is why this new special pavilion is opening.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5969	Thank you. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the Liberal Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5970	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a very important debate ahead of us, and that is why we need to think about the way we started this debate. I would ask you, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure, where is the motion of this act? Or where is the rapporteur who, on behalf of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, would report to us here in Parliament on the work of this committee and explain the candidates? What is so controversial about the résumés of the candidates we are discussing today, when neither the proposing nor the rapporteur of the Committee have spoken to the MPs and MPs why they should vote for them? Why does the parliamentary majority not stand behind the candidates he has proposed for members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution? Is there something controversial about their biographies, so the parliamentary majority is ashamed of the support and public identification with them? Parliament does not hear of such important decisions as decisions made for the first time in our country's modern history. Previous participants quoted individual members of the Law on the State Audit Institution as saying in the debate. It's a good law and it needs Serbia, it's the need of our society. The need and those who are in power and those who would like to control the government. What institution can more effectively protect the credibility of all those who have budgetary resources than this Council of the State Auditing Institution? In politics, unfortunately, everything is allowed here in Serbia, and institutions like the one we are talking about today are those that must play a crucial role in defining our personal responsibility and our ability to do quality work. That is why it is necessary for us to address the proposal, and therefore we want to hear the Committee's rapporteur, so that we can ask the question whether the rapporteur, or the promoter, was familiar with the facts that we are familiar with who we want to discuss here. Why does the parliamentary majority in adopting such an important decision in the beginning violate the law? Why don't you respect the law? If you are breaking the law at adoption, then what is it that you are building your right to tomorrow that we cannot behave in the same way that you are acting today or anyone in Serbia? We had a similar debate during the adoption of the Constitution, when we warned you that if society is stolen at the constitution, then tomorrow it will be stolen at every turn, and it is happening to us today. This debate must be dignified, among other things, because we are talking about people who are not in a position to respond to what we are talking about them, to the president, to the vice president, or to the other three members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. There is no Mrs Ćatovic here, that we ask her whether or not what we are talking about is true, but there is no Committee rapporteur, nor any proposing behind her candidacy. There is no candidate for President of the Council here, so that we can ask him a question – how will you control the work of a state body whose office you are today, and this is lower? We can't ask the vice president how the current finance ministry advisor will control the work of the finance ministry. We would like to ask these questions to the proposings, can we get an answer to the question of who has proposed a candidate for the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution? Is it possible that out of 130 and change MPs there is no one to go out and say - that's our proposal. Stand behind your candidate. Who suggested a candidate for the Vice-President of the Council and who suggested the other three members? Do you know why it's important? Because we expect from them answers that the candidates are unable to give us because they are not participating in this debate. We have information that Velimira Ilic's party has proposed to Mrs Ćatovic. We said that the least important thing we care about is that it's the scene of the Socialist Party of Serbia, because these past seven years we've been taught that it's possible to be worse than the ones we've been saying are the worst. Let's ask the question of what was crucial in that nomination, is Mrs Ćatovic a municipal public defender and did she do her job well, therefore proposed for a new function? Who's going to answer those questions? We don't think she did her job well. Not because she first came to the post as a member of the temporary administration that was seduced by the Socialist government of Mirko Marjanovic during the 1990s, not because of this, but because of the illegality of 140 squares of municipal business space by the parties in power during her term. It's an SPS, but now you won't vote for it. Isn't that right, socialists? And you know who it's about, because in the meantime what she did for you started working for Velimir Ilic. It's not in itself what's so compromising. Imagine a municipal public defender who, at the same time, is the chairman of an insurance company's supervisory board that has been acting against the law and has lost his license to work by the National Bank. Now the functionator of the National Bank, its branches in Nis, will work together with the chairman of the insurance company's supervisory board, which the National Bank has banned from working on because it violated the regulations. Is it then an institution that will be effective, that will be able, that we can trust? Did we then achieve those goals that we spoke of when we adopted the Law on the State Auditing Institution? Is there another 21st-century country like Serbia? To forget all our other problems and differences, how is it possible to discuss the choice of advice, and there is no one behind the candidates to be voted on? Have members 17 and 18 been violated? Law on the State Auditing Institution, at least those two members, essential? What do these members say? They're the essence of the law. In order for the revision to be effective, it must be completely independent of the state, and in order to be independent of the state, its members, and not the letters on paper, they must be just like that. How independent of the state is someone who's a civil servant today? Of the five candidates for the council, four are employed by various state authorities and institutions, receiving salaries from the budget. Four candidates, out of five, are getting paid out of the budget. We broke the law in the beginning. We could have written an amendment to the law, so let's say, when we choose the first council, these rules are not valid, so the council will work with honor, some new staff will gather around it, and the other council will be chosen from the ranks of candidates who are engaged in the audit institution itself, and they will, in their own nature, be precisely independent. No, there's no such thing. We broke a member of the law at the beginning, not to mention candidate credibility. In the beginning, a member of the law was violated. Article 18, for at least five years, candidates for these functions cannot be persons who in any way had a business arrangement with the state, were engaged in business for the state. And we're breaking that article of the law. We have read in the paper the explanation of the rapporteur, the vice-president of the DSS or the vice-president of parliament, and I apologize if it is no longer the vice-president of parliament, Mr Obradovic. He said there weren't enough personnel. That's not true. We're sure there's plenty of personnel for this kind of work, but we're equally certain that every serious one of their credibility doesn't want to jeopardize engagement in such an unserious institution. All successful people today, in fact, have come to this success, not with the support of the state, but mostly with the struggle with the country that was obliged to support them. Let's remember our athletes when they win some contest. If they looked behind them and saw, we would realize that they had more opponents in the country than in their entire sports career so far. That's the way it is with every other successful man -- if you're successful, you're cursed in Serbia. There are enough capable and credible people for this kind of work, but those capable and credible don't agree to the criteria these candidates have agreed to, which is obvious. What are these criteria? Those who have made every institution in Serbia a quasi-institution. These are the same criteria that preceded the election of special prosecutor Radovanovic, who hugs at the reception with the person to investigate, which is covered by the police action "The Network", so when you ask him what you're doing, what you're hugging with Milosevic's tycoon, what you're looking for in a hug with Miskovic, when he's one of the ones you're supposed to investigate for cigarette smuggling, he says - that was at the reception, the photo was abused. So, the reception is allowed to hug the suspect, and in any other place it will be dealt with by political opponents, those who brought me into that position, not to enforce the law, but to actually protect the lawlessness. That's what this is about, providing support for lawlessness. He can't be elected as a member of the Board of the State Auditory Institution if there's no one here to go out and say why he needs to be voted for. That's enough to indicate the absence of any credibility. Parliament can't get such pointless debates. Why don't we discuss whether the country is a record? Let's talk about it. This makes the same sense as in the idea of discussing the Council of the State Auditing Institution, when it is obvious that during the debate the law is being violated. Two essential members of the Law have been violated. Is there any chance we can talk about it, talk about it, talk about it? The council should, among other things, control finance in the country's political life, the way money is spent. It's the humiliation of the people who voted in this election. We have four million citizens left behind and none of them can say to themselves that he is happy, satisfied and successful to the extent that he would like to be. Look what Parliament has turned into. We can say that 90 percent of this House is the least responsible for such a thing. They are responsible for party leadership, the government is responsible, and because the Assembly does not work and because when it works, it works the way it works, which violates the Constitution, which violates the Constitutional Law, which bypasses essential issues. At least there are the MPs who sit here, except their guilt stems from the fact that at all costs they agree to play the role others have given them. Is there any threshold for parliamentary dignity, is there any minimum? We think it's this, that it's a message to the promoter -- here, come here, stand behind the candidates, explain to us why they're the candidates for these functions. Let the reporter come and explain, so let's say that we made one decision in the right way, we didn't make any more, we made one, we chose the advice. And when that advice says we're honest, then we're citizens and citizens of Serbia; we don't work for 130 thousand dinars a month, we don't all take daily living and travel expenses, we don't all sleep in apartments and hotels. If one of us is like that, then the Council finds him, stamps him, we'll take him away. We're not all thieves. We're all here at 10:00, and we'll leave tonight at 7:00, 8:00, 9:00, 9:00, we'll be sitting in this room. Let's say that the Council is one of the institutions that will contribute, among other things, to increasing our credibility. Instead, never mind, we'll vote. This advice has been destroyed in this procedure. That advice will not be respected, as not all other institutions are respected. The issue of economic freedom is a key issue for democratisation and further development of our society. Economic freedom is a prerequisite for political freedom. If we are not economically independent, we cannot be politically independent, because life is cruel and we all know it very well. So, we insist on an explanation of the candidacy. Let that proposer, John Doe, appear, that stranger we don't even know his name or name, let the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Obradovic, appear, and then, on behalf of their candidates, say why we should vote for them, and let them not try to convince us that we should break the law in this vote, because we won't do it. The Council of the State Auditing Institution needs control of public finances, not only of the civil sector, not only of the "Transparency of Serbia", not only of the NGO, but of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, because, among other things, it promotes our willingness, our will, our commitment to life in the regulated and normal society of the 21st century. We want such advice, we support the Law on the State Auditing Institution and therefore do not vote for these candidates, because we think that, first of all, there is no elemental responsibility of those who have proposed these nominations, and now they do not want to explain them here; we do not think that they are professionally fulfilling, to the greatest extent, not all of them, obligations that they must fulfil if they want to engage in such an important institution. In the end, we think that this decision, in fact, sent a very clear message to the parliamentary majority, Kostunica's majority, that he does not want a representative, but a quasi-institution, like many others who are created and who are behind us, whether we're talking about education, whether we're talking about economics, whether we're talking about culture, whether we're talking about justice, whether we're talking about police. Our lives are marked by quasi-institutions that actually reflect this deformed character of our reality, which is an incentive to deform politics and a bad system of values. If someone offers an explanation, we will be very happy to discuss this argument, but we believe that the way this debate was initiated, the quality of the candidates, their credibility and everything that preceded the debate itself to this extent is devastating and that it is very clear that LDP cannot provide support for this law, but must not be silent about this law and the way it is actually destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5971	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. If I understand correctly, a representative of the proponents, MP Matic, called. I understand, Mr. Beard, just calm down. Well, a man just called to make a reference. Will Slavoljub Matić or won't? Thank you. Here you go, Light One.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5972	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, although we are party colleagues, I must warn you that as chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you must respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. When an MP asks to advertise the Rules of Procedure, then you must give him your word, because it stands in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I answered, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic mentioned the SPS, I answered the rules of the Rules of Procedure to say a few words and propo. I would ask Mr Jovanovic not to mention the Socialist Party of Serbia in a context in which he mentioned it, especially President Milosevic. President Milosevic has been dead for a year and a few days and has not been in power since 2000. Now, for the forgetful to recall, October 2007, it will be October in the next day. It will almost be seven years since President Milosevic is out of state office. Unfortunately, you've kidnapped him in the meantime, you've celebrated his kidnapping, you've earned it, and you've missed him. What tycoons of Milosevics? In the 1990s, these people were just corporate executives. They became tycoons in your time, then they exploded, then they became lords of Serbia, then they became owners of politics, politics and parliamentary groups, and they are people who edit politics. What are you doing? What are you doing? Well, you DOS made them who they are. Until then, they hadn't heard from each other alive, no one knew about them, and then they became someone who runs Serbia. The Socialists have nothing to do with it, nor did President Milosevic, but if you have the courage to say – we did, we gave them to privatise the small money company, we sold them ten factories for three euros, yes, we transferred them to Cyprus money. Say it - we've split it. You have much more serious problems to talk about than this is what you started. There's one thing you're right about. Whatever we were until 2000, you're right when you say this is a disaster after 2000. Not that you're not as good as we are, you're not nearly as good as we are, you're far worse. What you've been doing to Serbia since 2000, this is a shame. You, Mr. Jovanovic, and DOS, have brought into Serbia robbery, crime, blackmail, embezzlement and all that has followed DOS in 2000. Remember, here in 2001, you were saying that there are 100 directors of large enterprises that finance DS and DOS to bring Milosevic down and come to power. Why don't you publish their names so Serbia can find out who the tycoons are and who's mastering Serbia today, what don't you say? So tell us, that's what you told us in 2001. As you said you had the tone record that the Milosevic family ordered the murder of Slavko Curuvija, so we told you - go ahead, give it if you have, to get rid of it once. But you just like to talk, accuse the innocent, and hide the real culprits, because they probably pay for being guilty of not talking or being extradited. Let Serbia move forward. If you have any evidence, offer, but stay away from that story. This is where you should tell the citizens of Serbia -- that and that's the fault and that. In fact, I think that you have far greater problems and that these testimony of members of the Zemun clan throw the right picture at what is called Serbia after 2000. It's just a fundamental question that you chose someone obviously as a crown witness, and someone's meant to be the victim, but you're all responsible together because they show a connection from top to bottom, a connection between government and crime. Until Serbia clears it up, we cannot move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5973	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Miroslav Markicevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5974	My fellow MPs, I'm replicating Mr. Jovanovic. Listening to Mr. Jovanovic for years, of course not agreeing with his views on the world and political ideology, I'm used to being precise, I must admit. This time, when it comes to candidate for a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution Natalija Ćatovic, whether accidentally or intentionally, Mr Jovanovic, you mixed everything up. So, the link between Natalija Ćatovic and these 140 squares you mention with the SPS is that it represented the municipality and took away the SPS of those 140 squares. But you have 0.6% in Topoli and no one to tell you what's going on in Topoli. There is a New Serbia with 52% in the first round. Next, you mixed PIC "Oplenac" and some insurance company. You know what PIC means - a agricultural-industry combination. It's Serbia, agriculture, grapes there. The problem with Mrs. Ćatovic and you is that she broke up privatisation with the Popov brothers, and these Popov brothers are members of your party, perhaps the only one in Topoli. That's true, Mr. Jovanovic, and don't deceive the public here, especially because it's one honest and honest woman who can't defend herself, but I have to defend her here. There was an opportunity on the Finance Committee, he could come whoever he wanted, time to say anything about her all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5975	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Mr. Jovanovic, the replica, I presume? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5976	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have used the right to replication, I would like to respond to the representative of New Serbia. Perhaps it would be better if you went out at the beginning of the debate and told who your candidate was for a member of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Of course, I don't think there's any reason for us to do this here. I was very clear, I said it was the Prizma Insurance Company, the owner of that insurance company is Mr. Milosav Petrovic. By the way, he is the financeman of your party's vice president and president of Topol Municipality Dragan Jovanovic. He lost his license to work in 2006, and then he was set up for liquidation, i.e. the bankruptcy manager of the insurance company who lost his work permit. The chairman of the insurance company's Supervisory Board, Prizma, was Mrs Ćatovic. As a municipal defender, she annulled a decision that she previously agreed to as a municipal defender. Because she did not become the municipal defender in 2004 when the coalition of New Serbia, DS, DSS and G17 plus came to power in Topoli, it was also during a period of forced administration which she had seduced during the 1990s by the government of Mirko Marjanovic, a coercive administration that removed the opposition government in Topoli, in which the majority of them had SPO. So, Mr Markicevic, I am today as I have always been – and when I was head of the parliamentary group in which you were an MP and then when I was head of the election headquarters of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, in which you too were. As I took care of what I was saying back then, I'm taking care of it today. As for the Milosevic debate, you, the Socialists, had plenty of time to defend Milosevic. I think you would have helped him more if you had thought of him when he was president of the state, whether it was Serbia or Yugoslavia or when he became a Hague indictee. I am a direct participant of his arrest, I am a direct participant of Milosevic's extradition to The Hague tribunal, I am still behind those decisions today, but I am a man who spent enough time with him to determine what his opinion of the party he formed and led to. Serbia knows who Milosevic was, knows citizens and citizens; the problem is that there is no political will to take a clear view of this man and the system of values he symbolizes and that for everything that has happened in Serbia, however much some want to prove to us, one cannot be responsible. He may be a driver, but there are many who have done much in Milosevic's era for which they have not taken responsibility, but have avoided this responsibility by leaving Milosevic in a space that he could not step out of alone. I repeat again, I stand behind those decisions, and tomorrow I would do the same thing. More important to me is the fact that Milosevic, who said a lot after his arrest, not about me, not about people who were directly engaged in those actions, did not say anything close to what his party friends, friends, or even family said, but because he was arrested or even after he died. I wanted Milosevic to have the right to a fair trial, which he did not allow many people in this country. Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, arrested by police, taken to Central Prison, delivered on the basis of the Serbian government's constitution and decision to the UN tribunal, which was our international obligation. Someone will never agree with that politically, but compare the fate of Slobodan Milosevic and his predecessor, Ivan Stambolic, who ended up in a cave with paint, killed in the back of the head. The idea of criminalising political opponents is not new in Serbia, but this type of argument is too weak to deal with our policy. Mr. Obradic, you can trust murderers, drug dealers and kidnappers when they say that in their testimony. Citizens have the right to... (President: Time.) ) I applied for a replica based on Mr Obradovic and Mr Markicevic's presentation, which is why I think I have the right to speak for six minutes, but I can return to my post and report again. So, go ahead and defend those who were the perpetrators of your policy during your period of power, members of your parties, symbols of your system of values, but don't forget the fact that at all times we are here in Serbia, that we are available to all state authorities and that we are very interested in why the state authorities do not want to resolve all issues, who has an interest in having such a thing happen today in Serbia – us or those who are in power, and in power are partly with your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5977	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5978	I must say, on behalf of the SPS, that what I just heard from Mr. Jovanovic is a completely empty story, more to buy time and get the impression that he was trying to say than he had anything to say. Mr. Jovanovic almost crossed that line, the border of decency, as Mr. Vuk Draskovic accused the people in 1990 of not giving him an election victory in those first democratic multilateral elections in Serbia. He then, in 1990, said: "The people are no good." The 1990 people, who gave Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia twice in the direct elections, are obviously no good to you. Democratic leaders will never be able to win, gave him confidence to be president of the Republic of Serbia. He has made his mandate more than once available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and has always won. It's something you can't understand, let alone achieve. Another thing, how can a man trust you? You talk differently every time, so I don't tell you what you're doing. You were a courier in those events back then, and who knows what else you were doing. You remember wearing a letter of assurance, or that letter has guarantees that President Milosevic will not be handed over to The Hague tribunal. Do you remember who signed the guarantee that he would not be extradited to The Hague? Do you know it's against the constitution? The government's decision cannot be stronger than the Constitution. It is good for you now to admit that you have participated, there is one people's expression - the serials, the troubles of the other; it shows the structure of your personality and the people you worked with. When someone looks forward to someone else's accident, it's not written well. That's some fact, not to mention this after that. Mr. Jovanovic, no mention of members of the Zemun clan of any socialist, as far as I can tell, mentioning you and your society, that they were giving money, that they were taking money, that they were putting pressure on the judiciary, that they were planning that too. Do you read the press? You see who's mentioned there, these are DOS people in 2000, those people you represent here, you drill into their chests and say, just like that, the promised future awaits you. Mr. Jovanovic, do you notice that these people accuse you and your comrades of taking money and doing things in this country? You have brought crime into the state, made it possible to rob Serbia through privatisation. You, not someone else. Do you have any idea what law it was implemented under? You have kept from this pay phone that the laws are good and that Serbia will sing, that everyone will have no idea what, and honey and milk will be in Serbia. That's what you were talking about. Today in 2007, nearly seven years since DOS took over. Do you remember that or have you lost your memory? You don't accept anything that doesn't contribute to your thesis. Mr Jovanovic, you have a lot of problems and how things are, if the state exists, but unfortunately we have everything in this country, so the question is what's going to happen with all these processes, it won't end up on this; it can't be mentioned so many DOS people in 2000, and then it's the blame of the Socialists of the 1990s, who were not there, or some other parliamentary group. It won't work. Therefore, Mr. Jovanovic, you must prepare to answer for what you did in 2000. In the name of which goals and what counts, that's a different story. And, get out of your demagogue about some values; your only value is a full wallet, your only value is a full conto, your only value is money and you have no other value system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5979	Replica? You have no right, Mr. Jovanovic. If you want the same theme, don't, please, unless you provoke me so I can answer you as a witness to these events. Out of respect for the home that I chair, do I ask you - the Rules of Procedure or the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5980	Mr. Carrot, I'm glad to see you here in the chair behind my back, because I think we're all safer when you're sitting here, not in a car somewhere on the road. So, I would ask you to give me the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to respond to Mr. Obradovic, and to warn Mr. Obradovic that he is violating the Rules of Procedure because he did not call on a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5981	I'm asking you if you're speaking in the Rules of Procedure or you're looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5982	Replica, to Mr. Obradovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5983	You can't rephrase, you can do business. Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5984	Mr. Obradovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Raddic, have you responded to the replica or to the Rules of Procedure? (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, he answered, and I answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5985	By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5986	I told you it was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5987	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5988	Is that all right, Mr. Grouchy?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5989	It's probably okay, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5990	You see, I was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5991	You were wrong, Mr. Jovanovic, but it doesn't matter now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5992	Every MP and MP in the O.R. knows I was right, people watching this TV feed know I was right. Among other things, the fact that you and I can't accept it speaks enough of our differences. So, Mr. Obradovic, just let me know before you start seducing justice in Serbia how you're going to do it. Do you have information about me? Do you have any information that represents me in a way that would make me unworthy of working in this House? Why don't you give it to the state authorities? Why don't you go and give it to the Prime Minister? Why don't you give it to the minister of police, he was here? Here, I'm calling you, so come on, and my full wallets and my conto. What are you turning this debate into and why? We were talking about the State Audit Institution's advice. I mentioned Milosevic's tycoon. The fact is that in the meantime he became even bigger than he was in Milosevic's period. He continued to behave the way he acted under Milosevic's authority, meanwhile, something was made possible by those who became heirs to Milosevic's values. I made myself very clear. I was talking about a man who had the right to a primary show, a man who could import goods, and not pay customs for 90 days, when inflation was two or three billion; I was talking about a man who had a status as a domestic bank foreign bank, by law, talking about a man who practically formed a parallel financial system with other people. Now you can offer an explanation for such a thing, and I criticise it, but I was very clear, I said the name, the last name, and I cited the reason I'm saying it. I don't think politicians should be involved in business, but even businessmen don't have to deal with politics. The problem in Serbia is that no one is capable enough to deal with serious business today without having to have serious relations with those in power. As for your remarks regarding the period behind us, he is not great, but we are stopped in the second year of our policy by killing the Prime Minister and he who slanders me today is the same one who slanders him and our politics. Believe me, these insults mean more to me, although I would be happy if they were gone of course, they mean more to me than to those praises that are addressed to others. Unfortunately, and those who were part of the state during your time of power...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5993	Time, Mr. Jovanovic, please control the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5994	You, Mr. Gristle, take care of the way you conduct this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5995	Don't flaunt with me, but watch the time, Mr. Jovanovic, and respect the time. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? Is it a Rules of Procedure or a replica, Mr. Obradovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5996	It's a business thing. In order for this to not turn into a verbal duel between Mr Jovanovic and me, I only need to ask him one question, and let him decide whether to answer it or not. Did he talk all this time about Milosevic's tycoon, etc., about the man he was with at dinner after the handover of President Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, who, along with him, celebrated the shameful act in Serbia's history? You have to understand, people, that whatever you think of yourself, history records only some individuals. No offense to any of you who call yourselves Democrats, and others, no one will remember you for a few years, especially because of this disgrace you have done to Serbia -- to hand over twice the elected president, because those who tried him have ruled for themselves. You don't want this story. It has a pass in Serbia because you control the media, but as time goes by, some things come into place. And among us is what a messenger is, what he does, and what politics he represents. This is what gives us the advantage of the Socialists and at the same time the idea of leadership is that we should absolutely continue to fight for both the ideas of the left and our state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5997	Thank you, Beard. Would you like to raise your hand, Mr. Jovanovic? So raise your hand a little bit. I didn't see, raise your hand. Have you answered your word? Replic or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5998	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, you know, the rules of communication in Parliament oblige you, Mr. Chairman, to give the MP a word, and then to explain on what basis he has reported for the word and then you say that you allow it or that you do not allow it. You don't think you're getting used to us here like you're in a construction site.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u5999	When I see you, that's exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6000	Okay, but I'm not the only MP here and you don't come to the Assembly next time if you think I'm the only one here. There's a lady here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6001	You don't bother me at all, but you have to behave a little bit more politely. You just insulted me, and I didn't say a word to you. You can't insult anyone here, and neither can I. So if you're a correct man, then accept it, not play here, I don't know what. It's precisely because of the function that I'm currently in, as equal amongst the equals, of all the MPs here, that I've kept many things quiet, but you have to be correct too. Excuse me. You have the word again now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6002	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6003	You got your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6004	Thank you. I've answered the line. I'd just like to answer in the shortest Mr. Obradovic. Are you talking about events you didn't participate in, you weren't even at the periphery of these political events? I don't care why it is, but it's been a long time and you've certainly had the opportunity to understand how ridiculous it is that you've now spoken for this assembly speaker, how much more difficult it is for someone to kidnap and how pointless the accusations you call when you come here with us. We started a debate on a very serious topic, on the advice of the State Auditing Institution. We said that we believe that this is the need of Parliament, for every MP in it, that it is the need of citizens, that we have pointed to the eclectic examples of non-compliance with the law from which it stems and every right of members of the council of the State Auditing Institution, and you have turned it into a political account that made a black hole out of Serbia. But, in order not to have any dilemma, I think people are obliged to answer the questions that are being asked. No one has ever signed a guarantee that Slobodan Milosevic will not be extradited to The Hague. A guarantee has been signed that Slobodan Milosevic is not being arrested for being taken to The Hague tribunal that night. You weren't the actors of these events, some other people were involved and should let them talk about it. As far as this nonsense about celebrations, dinners, it's not a topic for parliament, it's so low that I know you don't believe it yourself. I won't argue with you anymore because I know what events you're calling for. Everyone has the right to interpret it in their own way, but I think you asked a question and got an answer from me. If you didn't want to get an answer from me, if you knew the answer without that question, why did you ask it? That's it. That's it. I suggest we go back to the council debate and discuss all these other topics where they should be discussed. So, please file a court case, it won't be the first time that something like that happens, let the courts judge, let the police judge about it. We are not the government in this country, but we are the last to distance ourselves from a policy that is being criminalized, because there is no other way to stop it. In Serbia, anyone who is successful, who is smart, who is worthy of Satan, and it happens not only to us but to many around us. All right, if those are rules of conduct, we disagree with them, we fight them. Mr. Moron, if you're in something I've said that I recognized the insult, I don't mind apologizing to you. You're so much older than me, there's no reason for me to hesitate. I don't like anyone feeling offended by what I'm doing, but you're my political opponent and believe that you're alone responsible for the atmosphere that's been created here, because of this non-chalant way of leading this session, which can sometimes come to an understanding, but at this point and on this point certainly not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6005	Thank you. The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, I hope, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6006	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. You know how, Mr. Jovanovic, my exposure to you may sound pointless or you can qualify him that way, but that's your thing. When I listen to what you're saying, even though I'm not, even though I don't believe in those things, I start to get baptized for what you're saying. Otherwise, in these 2000 events, it's true, I didn't participate, but, thank God, those who took part admit whether to ease their soul, whether for some other reason, I don't know, they write who participated, even qualified you. There is also a letter signed by Milan Milutinovic, as the then president of the state, I think Mr Zoran Djindjic, and there are still some of the signatories, who are guaranteed that he will not be extradited to The Hague tribunal. But it doesn't mean anything to you. That letter is an integral part of the book published by Mr Dusan Cukic, so you can take it and read it. It's not unknown. You can see exactly what the signatories said would not work. And we leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to opt for a system of values, because this system of values that you promoted by 2000 absolutely destroyed after 2000. It turns out that this system of values doesn't exist, that nothing is foreign to you. You essentially destroyed Serbia, but let's let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia judge it in the elections. Just so you know, this is a debate about the State Auditing Institution, but you've turned it into something that isn't, and I have an obligation, as vice president of the party and deputy president of the parliamentary group, not just a commitment, but I want to always go out for this pay phone and defend the party that I belong to and the man I respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6007	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorized proposings want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, the SPS, the Liberal-Democratic Party, the Vojvodjanski MEPs - LSV, SVM, a total of 17 debaters. I give my word to the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jerkov, and let the Parliament of the People be prepared, Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6008	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman and the Presidency, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will not vote for this decision for a number of reasons. First, because in the party state even such an important institution and such an important decision cannot be made without any party appetites and interests, personal and party ones. First, we can't support it because the laws are breaking at the beginning. We've heard about it before. These are members of the 17th and 18th of this law, those who are key, who speak of the independence of this institution. The second reason we can't vote for this is because we're convinced this institution won't be independent. The very fact that the parties proposed are members of this institution tells us that they will not talk about any independence. The third reason we won't vote for this is because those members of the Council who are to be elected, who are employed by state institutions, cannot be independent, nor can they exercise any control. Furthermore, this proposal tells us how much this government values the citizens of this country when it offers them these solutions and what it actually thinks of them. The next reason we won't vote is the way this proposal came about. We all know that New Serbia did not give a quorum at the Finance Committee meetings until it ensured that its member was also proposed as a member of this council. Next, when we look at only who the candidates are, it's clear to everyone why we won't vote. These are SPS personnel, a woman who participated in the election commission, in the 2000 election theft. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not agree to that. It's that lustration we keep talking about, that had to be implemented. This would allow us to keep people like this out of any list, especially those who need to control the government. The next reason we will not vote is because we are confident that the government will obstruct the work of this institution, as we have a case for obstruction of the work of all the institutions that should be in charge of the control of the executive authority. We would like to know where it will be the headquarters of this institution, whether conditions for work will be enabled, since even some ministries still do not have seats. I'm afraid the fate of an institution to deal with government control will be uncertain. So we're not voting for this bill until we find a proposing, until the law is respected, until someone convinces us that this institution will really be independent in its work. Such a proposal, as it came before us, shows us, in fact, what the government's intentions are, which is to essentially disable the work of every institution that should be in charge of government control at all. Silence is complicity. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has no right to remain silent about this and will not allow those who remain silent to do so and will do everything in its power not to pass another law in this assembly, another decision aimed at winning parties, and to the detriment of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6009	The word has a national MP Milena Stankovic, and let Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the main function of the audit institution is the control of budget spending. All that we have heard so far about Mrs. Ćatovic's candidacy is actually in favour of that she is not competent to deal with it, i.e. at this point the citizens of Serbia and we MPs have enough reason not to have enough confidence in her and that she will do her job well. I was motivated to speak because I was asked by our citizens from Topola, who know Mrs Ćatovic, who the morning when the candidates were announced, called me and asked me to bring out all the things we have brought out and what we are now saying. I really expect you to take this seriously. It's not a witch hunt, it's not an attack on a person. This is our reaction to politics whose representative was Mrs Ćatovic. The fact that Mrs Ćatovic continued her political career in New Serbia only speaks about what kind of foreigner we are talking about here, at what point and what kind of society we live in, in the sense that these Milosevic's staff, who at one point really carried out an extremely destructive policy here in Serbia, continued their work in something even more open and naked. If we say that Milosevic's regime was a political mafia, which I truly believe as a child who in the 1990s felt what to live in Milosevic's regime, we can also call this a political mob with a spoon, unlike Milosevic, who was a political mafia in gloves. If nothing else, I can say that these people of Milosevic's regime in the 1990s had more style and took care of how they behave, a little better hiding their intentions, and these are boastful and open in everything they do, they are not ashamed of what they do, they are not hiding their intentions. They're people... Here, let's say, this Mrs. Ćatovic is a proposal from New Serbia. Who is the leader of New Serbia - Velimir Ilic. What is Velimir Ilic famous for? Do you know? Which is why he's not, hiding the annexes of the Horgos-Pozega highway deal, verbally harassing journalists, buying cars for Hague indictees, importing locomotives. He just needs some shape that will have the stomach to endure all of this and that will be able to affirm such a policy by working in an audit institution. The Liberal Democratic Party doesn't agree to that. Maybe it's not a problem for you, maybe for you... My colleagues from the Democratic Party, I always speak to you, you are very important here, because the Democratic Party was at one point the engine of change in this country. Now your distinguished members come out here, so they say – Democratic Party - Boris Tadic. Why? Because they know it is not the Democratic Party -- Zoran Djindjic; the Democratic Party -- Zoran Djindjic has moved to another place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6011	Thank you to MP Stankovic. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is a People's MP, Miodrag Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6012	I'm advocating an officer's injury, Article 101. In a negative context and completely offensive previous speaker also mentioned the party I belong to, as well as the party president I belong to. I really wouldn't have to do that. It's, as our people say, as the sky and the earth say. To dispute what Velimir Ilic has done for New Serbia and how much he has done, this is best spoken of by the ratings that are growing from day to day to day, above all, to the president of the NS. On the other hand, the syntagma most commonly used by your party's president, which is a shifted or disrupted system of values, is degutantly commentary in general, and let alone persistently return to the same thesis – when we were in power, we were in Serbia's future, we were Europe, and then the will of the people came in 2003 in the elections, and in 2007, everything was stopped, and then the conservative forces that brought Serbia into the past came again, etc. That system of values you're talking about is based on, in fact, highly suspicious, mobic, uncleared affairs. I don't know any single indictments, and I don't know any single member of any Zemun, Surcinal or any mafia, I don't know, without your leader being mentioned as a close link, whether the courier is a direct participant, I believe that at a very close time the exact role of Mr. Jovanovic, or the president of your party, will be clarified. I don't see any reason why New Serbia and Mr Ilic are constantly mentioned, except for the fact that from day to day the popularity is growing, that Velimir Ilic is welcome wherever he appears, people recognize a man who doesn't talk, but works. Is there fear that in the next elections he may appear as Serbia's president? Doesn't that fact hurt you, too? If you have enough courage, we'll wait for some next election, we'll see how much your party president will gain the trust of the people. How can he gain the trust of the people when a man cannot go to the bathroom without a bodyguard? Velimir Ilic anywhere, from Subotica, Bujanovac, Presheva, Valjeva, Bora, Zaječar, goes alone or with the driver who drives him, simply because physically he can't take it. So, a man who's been working 24 hours, a man who works on a slide, whether on floods, whether simply on roads, infrastructures, and so many calls around the road and concessions of Horgos-Požega. Do you know what all of Western Serbia thinks about it, and if you want central Serbia? Velimir Ilic is practically the only minister from central and western Serbia, if we can still say that Mr Petrovic is from Sapca, 15 ministers are from Belgrade from 24-25. Do you know that Serbia is not Belgrade? Does it hurt you that Serbia recognizes it and that it sees a man who, in the best possible way, represents the interests of Serbian citizens? Not the interests of Serbian citizens Schillerov, Central Prison, I don't know, about a million and a half euros, marks, ergels, horses, bodyguards, jeeps, etc. So I would simply draw attention that when you talk, you talk about facts, today is on the agenda to choose the advice of the State Auditing Institution and that is one serious question. What's that hurting you for? Are these daily headlines coming out of the paper, so you're trying to distract your leader and who knows who else is from your LSD, the LPD party involved. So I'd like you to mention Mr. Ilic with all due respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6013	Thank you, Mr. Whitey. The word has a folk MP named Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I don't know the name of the previous speaker, but I have to realize he's not funny at all, even though he wanted to be. You have no talent. As for the growth in support of your party, I must reveal to the MPs, under Article 225 to inform them that Velimir Ilic is going to Shumadija and to his supporters that LDP is the only party that grows and orders them to guard the LDP. I don't think our electoral bodies match, of course, I know that Mr. Ilic doesn't even have basic political knowledge, so I wanted to tell you to tell him there's no reason to worry. I'm sure I know your popularity is stagnating or falling. As for the headline in the paper, you know how, it's easy to have a newspaper title when you own newspapers, then you can write whatever you want and how much you want. What I can tell you from here is, in fact, to quote President Jovanovic – if you know something and if you have something, go ahead and contact the authorities. Don't shoot all sorts of lies and nonsense from here because you know that's being followed by the citizens of Serbia and you think you're going to gain some popularity. You won't. Serbian citizens know very well what we are saying all the time, who you are and what people are really about, what values you in this society are affirming. These are the values where the ultimate moral sense of stealing is, and you represent yourself as some hosts. Here, I am Shumadinka from the house, my grandparents are from the village, and I know very well what the hosts are, certainly not what Velimir Ilic and your company are trying to popularize in Serbia. These are the hardworking and working people who work all day, fall dead at night from fatigue, try to make their children live better than they do, invest in their house, in their household, in their family. Velimir Ilic behaves arrogantly and insolently, only because he has the opportunity to dispose of these budgets, so he goes after Šumadia and talks - we'll take the road here, we'll take the bus station, and then there's nothing. Here, fellow radicals say the airport. Thank you. What we can talk about here, when we talk about a system of values, is work and work results. What are your work scores? What are the results of Mr Velimir Ilic's work? Go ahead and say it, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6015	Thank you to the MP, Mrs. Stankovic. Mr. Markicevic, I presume, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. I was just about to compliment yesterday. I think I'm too early.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6016	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225. If I understood a young colleague from Shumadia, I suppose from Kragujevac, I'd like you to come out and tell me which way you're coming to Belgrade, since you're talking about the results. So there's five kilometers of highway done, that's all you can see. As for the character and the work of Velimir Ilic, I did not go out here to be his lawyer, nor to defend him, he best defends himself with his work and what he sees. I must admit, when some laws are passed in the field of economic and legal science, the effectiveness of these laws is difficult to see, it takes a year or two. For your information, what Velimir Ilic is doing, which is infrastructure, is what all people see. So 3,280 kilometers of roads in three years – more than for the previous 30 years. I cannot be, nor am I educated to be a therapist, especially for some ladies on the public media scene of Serbia who are burdened with the image of Velimir Ilic. I can't help but conclude that they're mortally in love with him, but in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6017	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? Here you go, Miss Stankovic, and then the national emissary of Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the job of Velimir Ilic is to pave the way and I don't think we should admire anyone because he was doing his job, it's in his job description. It takes a lot more to impress us. What's the problem here, that's what he's doing, and what doesn't belong to his job description, what I was just saying -- buying cars to Hague indictees, etc. As far as being in love with Mr. Velimir Ilic, that's really funny, that's terrible. There's an expression that speaks of him, and I'm going to be a lady so I won't tell. He's a completely unsatisfactory man, so don't talk about it like that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6019	Don't be hasty, Mrs. Stankovic, as far as those grades are concerned, please. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6020	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it offensive to have the dignity of the National Assembly and every woman who sees this. That someone should be a therapist to certain ladies on the political and public scene of Serbia, Mr Markicevic, I didn't realize at all, but it is in line with your party's discussion, your president. It's exactly in line with those who think it's okay to steal, who think the minister is not a minister if he can't steal a five-mile highway; it's consistent with those who kick journalists, who swear, who insult the dignity of every normal man in this country, and that's consistent with the behavior of a man who makes them red, as they watch it, all the educated and decent citizens of this country. Please take your behavior where it belongs. Such expressions and conduct are not appropriate in the congregation. If this is tolerated in your party, do not force Serbian citizens to listen and red again. They've had enough of being embarrassed when they're watching your president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6021	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic, but please, no romantic spills. Stick to the agenda theme, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6022	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I'll listen to you as a very experienced man. I want to deny some things here. As for the five-mile highway, stop telling lies. I don't know what's going to happen in the new Rules of Procedure, which words can't be used, and I believe that the word "untrue" can be used in the new Rules of Procedure. So no one stole a five-mile highway. Mr. Ilic said it would not be a shame if we made a kilometer of highway this year, so that the villages of Šumadija and the hills and the Vojvodina... Miss, obviously you weren't according to Vojvodina to see how the people lived, how the people were saved in Yashi Tomic, you were nowhere to be found. And as for Velimir Ilic and his presidential candidacy, which hurts you, I must remind you that the first man from the political scene a few years ago, as far as I can see from my talks with him recently, who supported Mr Velimir Ilic, dear colleague, is Nenad Canak. When you are in four eyes, let him explain to you why he wants to support him and why he supported him. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6023	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Here you are, the folk emissary of Alexander Jerkov. He's obviously got some kind of secret crush.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6024	Dear counterpart Markicevic, I am going through Vojvodina very much, which is why I object to what Mr Ilic is doing. That's why I object to it, because we see how the people of Vojvodina live. That is why we do not allow them to be taken 450m euros for a concession on a highway that does not lead anywhere, because Montenegro has not made a decision to build that highway, because it has just opened a tender for a company that will produce a feasibility study. I'm asking you, where was our feasibility study? Or was the only goal being to lead the way to Chačka and pass Mr. Velimir Ilic's private hospital? I don't know what support you're talking about for the president's candidacy. At one point Velimir Ilic found himself in a coalition with all others who joined together to bring down Slobodan Milosevic, in order to ultimately prove that it was a fundamentally different concept, because the League of Social Democrats in the coalition participated and changed something fundamental, and Mr Ilic participated in being a Caliph instead of a Caliph and could act the way we looked at him in the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6025	Thank you to the People's MP, Alexandra Jerkov. Here, who's this from the two of you? The word has been made by MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6026	I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 105. I didn't report for the replica on purpose, especially my colleague Mrs. Stankovic, because she's Angelina Jolie of the Serbian Parliament, after her statement that she's getting it here, whistled, watched, and the rest of it, I really shouldn't, she's looking at me at my wife's house, so she'll say I'm watching her. Since he was the minister of police here yesterday, I'm sorry I didn't ask him just one thing. I think it's definitely time for the police to get a department called the so-called. mind police, because anyone who asks for a path that leads to the heart of the forest, who doesn't know what Pozega is for the forest and the sea, definitely falls under that vault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6027	Thank you, Dean. People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6028	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I report on the violation of Rule 104 of this Rules of Procedure by which the National Assembly works - the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the Assembly. So, New Serbia's gentlemen, the party that citizens call a gang of road robbers, have gathered here the courage to deal with two MPs by bringing out a bunch of lies, defending one who can't defend himself in any way. You tried to insult two of the five perhaps youngest MPs in this congregation. Is this the home Serbia you're talking about, or is home Serbia the one who kicks journalists, the one who advises his associates to steal, the one who did the concession on the Horgos-Pozega highway at the expense of his chief, and how many, ten, twenty, thirty million euros in fees did you make? You come here to give a lecture to the letters that were first in this assembly, to insult them, to mock them and to make unsavoured jokes. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6029	Thank you, Free. The People's Messenger Mrvos Dušan came forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6030	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if anyone has interpreted my colleagues from New Serbia as insulting MPs, I apologize on my behalf, on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of New Serbia, although everyone knows it was no insult. Don't ever fight for endless gender equality, ask for the treatment of MPs and MPs to be the same in this assembly, and yes, on the other hand, when you have no arguments, use youth, beauty, women's sex, etc. Among other things, I'm quite fond of airplanes, and I've often been on a plane. It never occurred to me to fly. If you have a warrant to talk about the State Audit Institute and talk about something you don't know anything about, then let's just keep it on the level of stories like this and insinuation. I wanted to talk about other things, I wanted to talk about Vojvodina, about this famous highway, about the Social Democrats League (LSV or LSDV, however you want it to be abbreviations), about the famous thesis of a highway that leads nowhere and nothing, about the concession that Vojvodina took 450m euros. How do you know that? What kind of experts are you? Who told you 450 million euros? I'm from Pancheva, I'm from Vojvodina, and I know what the roads are like in Vojvodina, and I know that that highway doesn't exist, and it's all right to give a concession to something that doesn't exist. I also know where the King is, I know where Valjevo is, I know where Chachak is, and I know where the Požega is. I also know that this highway will go to Montenegro, the only question is whether it will go through Zlatibor or through the Cave, but that is not for me, not for you, but for people who understand that profession and who will tell where to go that route. As far as the highway and that system of values you're talking about, we can talk about the system of value as much as you want and we can talk about the system of value of candle, icon, candidium and spoons. Ma'am, you're from Šumadia, from Kragujevac, you said you knew what hosts are and you know what hosts are doing, the hosts are working hard to enable their children to be educated, etc. Then respect, ma'am, the spoon, because that spoon made Serbia and made the hosts and that spoon made it possible for you to school, ma'am. When we talk about the system of value, we can talk about the spoon and we can talk about the guy who used to listen to the deadline, drive the engine and smoke marijuana. We can talk about Serbia and Shumadia, and we can talk about this here, when it comes out of the Assembly, about the famous walking crossing that is made when I don't want to cross the other foot crossing, but I'm shorting my way to the Assembly. We can talk about various systems of value. The only system of values, which I represent and which are represented by members of New Serbia... I repeat that I am from Pancheva, so I will tell you that Panchevo is in Vojvodina and I will tell you two or three things about Pancheva. In Panchev, there is an Orthodox church that has two towers; it is a unique monument of architecture. For one tower, the former Pancheva merchants gave money, and the second tower came from the current Serbia, Vojvodina was not in Serbia at the time. The two towers define the unity of the Serb people on the one hand and on the other. The first monument to the first Serbian uprising is the big cross, in the former Panchean market, now in the park. Pancevo is a place where Stevan Petrovic Knicanin with 10,000 volunteers brought from Serbia along with Meyer Kofer defended the city from Hungary. Panchevo is a city of tolerance and a city where values are respected that you do not respect. And I will return to those two towers, as long as there are Serbs in Vojvodina and as long as there are people from New Serbia, there will be two tower churches in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6031	Thank you, Mr. Grouch. The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Ms. Aleksandra Jerkov, then Ms. Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6032	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to Rule 225 of our Rules of Procedure. I'm going to start with a saying by French Enlightener Danny Didro - Your Majesty, you're long dead, but no one has the courage to tell you that. I'll use it as a personification, as an allegory for our principle of centralization or Belgrade. So neither can Minister Ilic, nor can this government, nor the next government for a long time defend this centralist principle of ours, because it has long been overcome. Belgrade can no longer make rural roads and schools and thus buy voters, whether it is the Democratic Party Minister, either the Democratic Party of Serbia, or the Radicals. So the principle of centralisation is overcome, he is dead in the economy in European countries and he must be replaced by the principle of decentralisation. All the parties here have said that the principle of decentralisation and Belgrade must be our past, because, I remind you, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis achieve 81% of gross social product and today our villages are left without peasants and schools without champions and students. Please understand that, gentlemen. Therefore, the concept of making Serbia from Belgrade is no longer possible and that is why I went out for a pay phone, not to mediate between LDP and New Serbia, but to say that all of us as MPs have the task of passing laws in this four-year term, which began on 7 May, which will mean the fundamental decentralisation of economic functions and the transfer from the centre to the periphery. Otherwise, I repeat, we will be completely out of the province, no villages, no students, no peasants, etc. It's our main duty. In that sense, this controversy is immaterial. Time has shown that it cannot be managed from the centre, from Belgrade by budget, or by schools and roads, somewhere there are good roads, and somewhere there is no, because we subjectively determine, but the money must remain where they are created, and part of the money must go to the centre to finance functions that are centrally organised. It's the concept of economics. There's no other concept. We can't tell the Duke what you want. We gave it to you. So how did you give us our money? That's impossible. It's this complete opposite. So that money is created there, they have to stay there, and part of the pair goes for the functions that are organized at the central level. It's a concept, that's how Europe lives, that's how companies live, and that's how the economy works. In this regard, I have reported to Article 225 to insist with the chairman that the laws on territorial organisation etc., that set of laws that touch decentralisation issues as soon as possible on the agenda. Otherwise, we will always enter these discussions, into one dialogue of the deaf, and we are not touching the basic subject, which says that we must pass laws which functions and original incomes will achieve at the level of municipalities, or territorial units. Then there won't be any need for these polemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6033	The word is Mr. Milorad Belic, and Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6034	In a negative context and offensive words, the work of Minister Velimir Ilic and the party to which I belong -- New Serbia -- has been characterised. With the risk that I also contribute to the distance from the agenda – which costs all taxpayers about a few hundred thousand, perhaps more than half a million a day, which is why I really feel the need to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, and not for what was just heard, because it is without substance to talk about whether and what a concrete contribution the former Ministry of Capital Investments was and Minister Velimir Ilic and what a concrete contribution this period is – I feel the need to comment again on those remarks regarding the concession and construction of the Horgos-Požega highway. You see, Valjevo is dead, a dead city. No investments in recent years have been directed towards Western Serbia. The only thing that has brought hope is exactly the choice of Minister Ilic and his sense of central Serbia, for western Serbia, but also for Vojvodina, and wherever it is needed. You can't, by the way, reach out more than you can. So at this point there's so much money, it's so much money. On the other hand, in one period after 2000, the president of the Municipality of Valjevo was just the first LDP man today in Valjevo, the manager or whatever it is called in their party structure. The only thing left to remember was that he didn't get involved in his business, no one even knew he was the president of the municipality. The four years eaten by locusts have now only complicated and further separated Valjevo from major investments. We cry, even the citizens of western Serbia, not only from Požega, but still down towards Novi Varosha... Did you go from Bor's head to Nova Varosha, whether you went anywhere near Serbia, whether you have someone who is a professional driver, if nothing else, to drive a bus, a truck, that is always on points, and I believe that you, as party officials, are engaged in Serbia. What roads do you take now, and what routes did you drive until a few years ago, until two or three years ago? Furthermore, Valjevo wants, western Serbia wants to re-activate the big project as well as the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, regardless of the unfortunate coincidence that it has several times begun construction of the railway, and has been interrupted several times because of war conflicts. These are some things that Minister Ilic, this government and the previous government of Mr Kostunica are taking care of. I agree with a colleague who just spoke, it is a fundamental process of decentralisation and it will be resolved, hopefully, in a set of laws that will solve the problem of territorial organisation, electoral laws, etc. In the end, it's true, we're not Mr. Ilic's wooden lawyers, his work scores are that parameter, and I know citizens know they appreciate it. Look, since 2000, when Minister Ilic participated in the regime's shift, how many other party presidents and leaders remain active in political life. Are we going to count those party leaders -- that's me? They like it here in the congregation benches, but who do these people represent? Where are those organizations, membership? That's funny and comment. After all, if we are already talking about who New Serbia represents, the citizens of the environments we come from know best who we are and what we are. We can wrap our stories here, depending on the rhetorical abilities of this individual or that individual, to introduce ourselves in the most beautiful light, whether in gloves, whether with a spoon or whatever you want, but there, dear colleagues and colleagues, from where we come from, are infallible citizens there know that they recognize. They'll recognize your activists, as they recognize you and my Valjev how. Let's wait for the election will of the citizens again. Let's wait and see if and who's gonna run, wait and see what party wins the percent, but by then let's go back and do this job that we're here for, what we're paid for, after all, for which we're paid, and for those who voted for us. Leave Velimir Ilic and New Serbia as well. Citizens are best aware of how much they have owed since 2000 to Serbia, and also in 2000, and will know that prices in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6035	The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Jerkov, so Ms. Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, it's not about whether you should apologize to me and Mrs. Stankovic at all. You don't need to apologize to us, you should apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to watch it. You should apologize to everyone who listens to you and your president. You should understand once already that this is not a conversation in the pub with your president with a glass of brandy, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is not the way to talk here. Furthermore, it is not that you and I need to address with respect because we are women or because women are in a different position. First, the Rules of Procedure for the work of this congregation stipulates that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Another thing, if you had any decency, you'd know that people are obliged to address each other with respect. Please begin to appreciate both this assembly and the Rules of Procedure that prescribes its work. When we talk about how 450m euros, the figure that appeared magically, that figure is very easy to come by. Your president has shown that he has little problems with math and math. I hope you guys get a little bit easier and multiply what you have to do. In fact, about 20m euros are collected on a section of the highway from Horgos to Belgrade annually; this means that a precisely 450m-euro figure will be collected in a period where the highway is awarded under concession, if not more. When we talk about why it is not a concession – because under the concession, by the BOT rule, which is an internationally recognised rule, it puts the meadow between... Let's say, if you want to build the Belgrade-Cacchak highway, you put the meadow between Belgrade and Cačka under concession, and the concessionary who wants to build that highway takes it under concession, then charges the concession and then leaves the area. Why didn't that happen? Because both the IMF and the European Bank have estimated that the share of the trip is not worth it. That's why you had to give the highway that was built more or less, and guess whose money -- the money of the people of Vojvodina. But when we talk about how you want to build a road from Valjev to Loznica, that's exactly what this is about. You do not need Velimir Ilic to build a road, you should have your own sources of funding from which you will build a road, as we do not need in Vojvodina Velimir Ilic to finish the highway. Simply, everyone needs to understand their needs, because they understand them best, and build from their sources what their needs are. Of course, what is the central government's jurisdiction, as much as it costs the central state, everyone will pay. He who is richer will pay more, but this kind of treatment, as if the duchess were really you... I don't know if you know it, but Vojvodina's territory accounts for 30 per cent of Serbia's territory, the citizens of Vojvodina account for 27 per cent of Serbia's citizens, and the Republic of Serbia's budget is, depending on the year, 35 per cent to 55 per cent. They're getting back 7%, which means every sixth dinar that the citizens of Vojvodina make is coming back to them. That LSV can't allow, even if it's "stealing."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6037	The word has a national emissary, Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, this will be my final address on this agenda point, because I think we should deal with this audit institution. I would really just like to point out once again, since my background has been questioned again and there's all sorts of talk, I am a Shumadinian, and I respect a spoon and all that it represents, but I don't respect those who put a spoon on it, and then they steal, they abuse journalists both verbally and physically, and all of them, hiding, like a colleague who just got out, behind God, churches, higher powers. It reminded me of the situation when we were here to discuss whether Mr. Balinovac should report on the law he was reporting. Simply, when you have no earthly arguments, you hide behind these celestial arguments. That's not worth it here. This is Parliament, we are politicians, and we here need to show how skillful we are to present our ideas to the citizens. One day, God will judge us all, when the day of judgment comes, but until then, our work is judged by the citizens. I sincerely hope there's a very soon time for us to measure what's worth. I know that the LDP of New Serbia will certainly be worth more.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6039	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6040	Mr. Chairman, Vice-President and Deputy Secretary, I appeal to Article 226. I am also asking for an answer from the speaker of Mr Dulic's parliament, and thus I would like to join MP Zarko Obradovic's wish that Mr Dulic answer our question when elections for the local assembly in Zrenjanin will be called. In Zrenjanin, some will now celebrate, and unfortunately some will cry, one year from the introduction of a forced administration. At Zrenjanin, in an emergency administration, people from the DS, DSS, G17 plus and New Serbia are now sitting. Of course none of them should sit, the elected representatives of the citizens should sit: the radicals, the leagues, the Democrats, from the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, from G17 Plus, but the people of New Serbia who won the elections three years ago in Zrenjanin... It seems to me that 120 of us are now in the assembly. New Serbia received 92 votes in the Zrenjanin election of 105,000 registered. They now have a member of the emergency administration in Zrenjanin, they have the director of the strongest municipal company, the City Construction Directorate. Therefore, Mr. Dulic, please, just as the citizens of Smedereva, Užica and other cities in Serbia are asking you to call the elections and never again the people of the party who get 92 votes do not manage anything. I would just say, I agree that there are churches in Vojvodina and Serbia with two towers, it's very nice, it's these unbreakable ties between Serbia and Vojvodina and of course we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina think that Vojvodina is Serbia and should remain, but of course we disagree with that financial part and with the desire of some people in Belgrade's central government to think that everything is smart within the circle of "two". It's strange that someone who says to themselves that he's an ambassador from Vojvodina doesn't know where he's from. Shajkaca is a very nice hat, but it's not from central Serbia, it's not from Shumadija, it's from the village of Shakash. There were Swiss battalions, Serbian volunteering orders, and therefore many other Serbs around the world carry a spoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6041	Thank you, Mr. Marton. I give my word to MP Zarko Obradovic, we continue the discussion. Let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6042	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the State Auditing Institution Act. Given that Mrs Borka Vukic has expressed the view of the SPS parliamentary group on this subject and pointed out that we will not support the draft composition of the State Auditing Institution, allow me to say a few words about the State Auditing Institution and the way candidates are proposed for the Council of the State Auditing Institution. First of all, on behalf of the SPS, I have to say that it's a very bad thing that the state of the Republic of Serbia so far, here it is going to be in October 2007, not elected by the Council of the State Auditing Institution. In recent years, much has been said about this institution, since 2001, and we have hardly seen any debates on the budget or debate on how to spend funds at the level of local self-government and there has been no question that the Council of the State Auditing Institution will be elected. However, it is obvious that this has not happened for various reasons. I think Mrs. Vukic pointed out, which should be underlined, that Serbia is the only country from the former Yugoslavia, and also in the region where this institution does not exist. Somewhere in the press, there was a prominent example, for example, that Montenegro, which also gained independence last year in the referendum, has chosen a state audit institution, and Serbia has not yet done so. We think it's very bad, because it would be interesting if this institution existed, if it had worked and could control the way people's money was spent both at the state level and at the level of local self-government, because over the past years there's been a lot of troublesome, very strange in the way of spending state funds. It should also be said that the Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted in November 2005. We Socialists then voted in favour of this law because we believe that this institution is very necessary in Serbia, which of course does not mean that we agree with the proposal to elect members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Secondly, this item of the agenda, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should know, is that we did not hold the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia immediately on 21 August of this year, when it was publicly said that the Assembly would work, but we started this session only last week. I'm not saying this by chance, because Mrs. Vucic also mentioned what party representatives are in the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Given that it is members of the ruling coalition, Serbia should know that the assembly was not working because no agreement could be reached on members of the council. In particular, some members of the ruling coalition, who publicly criticised the National Assembly, should know this. This is not correct, especially because their candidates were a problem or part of a problem called the Staff Assembly of the State Auditing Institution. Third, the SPS disagrees with the way representatives were elected, members of the State Audit Institution Council. I am here holding the official assembly material of the Finance Committee, in which it is determined that the Finance Committee has addressed all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a request to propose its candidates for members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. counterpart Todorovic is waving his head, which means that they, colleagues from the SRS, did not get a call, which is certainly true. I must say that, thanks to the fact that Mrs. Vukic was directly, as a member of the Committee on Finance, involved in the Committee's work, we had our candidates, who were not accepted. But the interesting thing is, first, the claim that they've made to everyone, which is not true, and secondly, not everyone suggested, and you'll see after that from the composition, only candidates of the ruling coalition have been elected. Then one logical question arises -- why does the motionary, as a member of the ruling coalition, address all parliamentary groups, at least this publicly, and essentially it comes down to the ruling coalition? Unfortunately, this is another example of a public impression that there is a desire to co-operate with the opposition, and essentially only proposals by the ruling coalition are accepted. I don't think that's good. Here is an example of the Law on Citizenship: The Socialist Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment giving all Serbs outside Serbia the opportunity to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and a similar amendment was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, but for the government it was not enough, but the ruling coalition representative submitted the amendment and the government accepted the amendment, although they were essentially the same, there was no valid reason not to accept the SPS or SRS amendment. Obviously, there is a need to publicly say that the amendment of the ruling coalition has become part of the law. So much for how the ruling coalition works. As far as the candidates are concerned, I don't want to say a single bad word about the people who are proposed to the Council of the State Auditing Institution. I will use the right of the MP who participates in the debate to say that the candidates of the SPS, namely the candidates proposed by Mrs Borka Vukic, were better, if not than all, then certainly than at least part of them and that they absolutely deserved to be elected members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. I'll mention Mrs. Nada Mijailovic. The fact is that she was the director of the Social Accounting Service, that she was the assistant minister of economy and privatisation at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that she worked at the Office for Accounting and Payment, there was the Director General, that she worked at the Office for Accounting and Payment at the NBS, and that there she was a consultant enough to talk about her professional commitment and the quality she owns. Another candidate, Mr. Rajko Peric, has now graduated from one school in the field of economics, a postgraduate graduate, completed postgraduate master's studies for part of banking and financial management, performed various responsible functions in Novi Sadska Banka, the Post Office and elsewhere. I'm not saying this by chance, because both candidates absolutely deserved to be among the five candidates for members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution. And the last thing, fifthly, I think that this is the way of proposing and electing members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution absolutely leaves no doubt that the work will be bad and will be politically biased. It's gonna be bad because, no offense to the proposal, here, I've mentioned only two candidates that I'm completely convinced this job could do better, more professionally, better quality, far more professional than they do. The second dimension of the work of this council, this way proposed, will be this political bias. We are essentially getting advice from the state audit institution of the ruling coalition, which should control the way people's money is spent, by the ruling coalition. Especially since we haven't had final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget here in the National Assembly for years back, not to mention local self-government, and huge amounts of money have been spent over the past few years. It certainly won't work out, because apparently this democratic government has found a mechanism in the meantime. First, the adoption of the Law on the State Auditing Institution was postponed. Only in 2007 do we get the State Auditing Institution, we get a party-biased State Auditing Institution. Meanwhile, the amendments and additions to different laws all of what was the basis for filing criminal charges in 2000 and 2001 or qualified as something contrary to the provisions of the law qualified as an ordinary offence. So, the SPS believes that these proposals are not good, that the choice of candidates is not good, that candidates will be elected according to party membership, and we are absolutely convinced that they will not work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6043	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6044	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike some parties, we know how this ruling coalition works. Its principle is simple - distribution of prey. When it comes to any institution, or even one that should be one of the most important, we knew that the ruling coalition, or party, would in no case miss the opportunity to propose their personnel out of a simple account, should control those who propose them, which means that all those jobs they do will remain secret or not reach the public and that they will listen to their party headquarters, or directives. You know that in the Law on the State Auditing Institution, Article 18 says that a member of the Council cannot participate and decide in the audit procedure if he has been employed by a person who has been subject to an audit or has performed certain tasks for the account of an audit entity, if it has not been five years since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work. Of the five proposed, four still receive salaries from the budget. How is it possible for someone like that to propose for members of the audit committee? It is possible because everything is done here by party distribution and that is why we have in the proposal that the president is from the DSS, two members are from the DS, one member from G 17 and New Serbia. It's nothing weird. I will give you an example here that fully confirms that this is a way of functioning the ruling coalition. During his recent visit, Minister of Local Self-Government Mr. Markovic found in Leskovic, among other things, that Leskovac is an amazing, unique example in Serbia, that Leskovac by number of Serbian officials, behind Belgrade and Novi Sad, has 700 employees, which crosses all possible borders; in addition, there are 25,000 unemployed and that it is necessary to reduce the number of employees in the municipal administration. This is even confirmed by the current DS president who says that because of all this and the lack of money, the Assembly of the Municipality cannot simply hire a single person. That's one side of the medal, which is the form you represent for the citizens of Serbia, believing that they will believe that you really care about the interests of citizens and states. There's something different going on under the grain. It says here: Needing jobs per party. On one side you whine that there are too many employees, there are no money etc, but you are very precisely distributing jobs by the parties. I don't want to read you all the jobs you've distributed amongst yourselves, but I'll read you the relationship. You compare it with this audit committee and you'll see that it's almost 100% consistent. Says DS can hire 41, DSS 19, G 17 plus 14 and New Serbia 8. What are you talking about? You just want to satisfy the form, but the bottom line is, what's the biggest problem for this country is that you're absolutely not interested in the state. You're destroying it on one side, and you want to show how you're fighting for legality, for a way to prevent things like this from happening to us. When it comes to an institution that should be and is the only one in charge of controlling the state, it's normal for you not to think about allowing independent control. Independent control would mean that people who do not depend on the political parties in power are coming, that they do not depend on people who are until yesterday or still are, until in the day for the vote are elected, on the salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This essentially reflects and shows what parties are and what people in power are like in Serbia. Normally, that will only change when the SRS comes to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6045	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the Messenger of Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6046	This point has its own prehistory, and it probably began the moment the National Assembly, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, passed the Law on the State Auditing Institution. At that time, the law was brought by one violence, because the old constitution had no constitutional basis for such a regulation; the existing constitution had finally established a constitutional basis for such a law. Even when the law was passed, we had the opportunity to hear what those called a democratic bloc are now saying -- that Serbia is the only one that does not, everyone else has, etc. Who said we should finally have what everyone has? Those who have never submitted the final account to the National Assembly. It's possible someone doesn't like what I'm saying, but they can hardly deny me by any argument. If you intend to deny me, then you who are a little longer in the Assembly say when we adopted the final budget bill for 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, and for 2006, I won't talk. Since democracy came, there's been no financial reports. So between the words of democracy and the hiding of data about the spending of state money, we can put a sign of equality. It should not now be accused of being DS, DSS, etc., all being staged for the past six years. All that was missing showed that the final bill must not be delivered to the National Assembly. It's an important argument in this whole state spending control story. The second moment that is of the same importance for this subject is what the Constitution, and probably by the spirit of this Constitution, the worst solution for the status of the promoter when it comes to this institution, is if any committee or the working body of the National Assembly is empowered to be the one to propose it. Practice has shown them to be the worst solutions. They are usually promoters, when it comes to choice, far from the National Assembly. It's a standard. When it comes to this subject, it is likely that some professional circles should have the status of promoters, and in the National Assembly the decision makes a kind of verification and thus gives that legal framework for the legitimacy of the conduct and formation of a state body. That principle has been abandoned with us, I must say, since this democracy was enlightened, the moment this Committee of Finance was given the status of promoter for the election of governor of the National Bank. Just to remind you that we have one of the worst laws on the National Bank, because this governor of ours couldn't be replaced now. Why? In order for the governor’s resolution to take place on the agenda of the National Assembly, the National Bank Council must first verify this in a way, and the National Bank Council does not even have the authority of the Supervisory Board. As the National Bank of Serbia was set up, the governor is something above God. When they formed the Council, those who were then elected took care of how to determine a circle of people who would have a monthly appointment, and then, beyond all standards, a graduate mathematician was presented to an economist in order to settle the SPO piece of that cake and their participation, so some Kovacevic, some mathematician, mathematician, entered, later, when the SCI broke, resigned formally, but it was the nature of his personality. We have a few more state authorities where some of the National Assembly committees have the status of proposings, and that's a bad solution. Why is it a bad solution? Because the National Assembly also operates on the principle of the party division and representation of party political views and interests. Of course, if someone from the Serbian Radical Party had now respected the law and submitted a proposal for a candidate, it would have gone the same way as Mrs Borka Vukic did. Why? Because in extreme democracy, it comes back down to the number of hands raised. Where do we have the elements of some standard? It's with these committees, the composition of these committees, that respects some proportion. In the last few years, at a time when the first set of enlightened democracies of harals in this assembly we couldn't even have it. They did not know what proportion was, or what proportion was. I am talking about this evolution of the wrong solutions, wrong from the state's point of view, but later it turned out that this was also wrong from the point of view of the party's partial interests, and then from 2001 to 2004 to 2005, and the personal interests of individuals in political parties. Even some solutions had a purely nepotistic character, not a party, so it was presented as a party interest. It all comes to terms, and it can't hide. Let me give you another example. A special organisational part has been formed to prevent conflicts of interest. There were supposed to be academics, the way elections should ensure independence, impartiality, objectivity, etc. They even made one decision beyond what is generally known, so they are in conflict with the common facts, which only indicates that some partial party or private interest has gained much more importance than the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. You, for example, cannot convince anyone in Serbia that Mr Djelic did not commit a violation of that law. Why? Because chronology can't move at all. Monday's always before Tuesday. Now, this organization that deals with the prevention of conflicts of interest told us that after Tuesday, it comes Monday. Now we all need to enjoy this epic discovery. Why? To preserve the interest of an individual and not to endanger the functioning of the government. These are small, tiny examples that prove that there is a great involvement of the executive authority in all spheres of life. If we go back to this part of the agenda now, I have to say that Articles 17, 18 and 19 are the highlight of contradiction. The three members of each other are not in conformity at all. Evidence that there is a discrepancy between these members is precisely this list of candidates that has been proposed. I really think it's hard to find a candidate for these functions today. Why is it so hard to find a candidate? They should have very specific knowledge. Now someone will say – well, in all these agencies and companies dealing with audits, there is this frame. Yes, but I read to you a few days ago about the situation with Beobank. That firm, Danko Djindjic and Vlahovic, twice said Beobanka was successful. A new government came and in six months made a report - a disaster, should be destroyed at all costs. How can you suggest someone from that agency now and say he's an expert? He's been decommissioned for six months. Apparently, he didn't have any papers. How come he didn't have papers? He had all the papers. In accounting, you can do it any way you want to form it. We used to have both a positive and a negative zero. It was just us and nowhere else. So we generally have these kind of frames. Here, I'll point to another illogicality. I took part a long time ago in 1993 in the adoption of the Accounting Act, so that was the first time those auditors were involved, etc. At that time, a specialised organisation, an accounting union and an auditor of Serbia, was profiled, which was authorised to issue certificates that someone was an authorised auditor, etc. Then one of the former finance ministers resented the organisation, so all that belonged to the profession was pulled out elsewhere and said – whatever alliance of accountants and auditors, I do not admit. But I now see here in the proposal that we have here a candidate who, in a statement, accepts the candidacy, gives thanks to that MP group who proposed it. I don't want to mention names today. You'll read it, it's all good. So, a statement that he accepts a membership application as proposed by that parliamentary group is an interpretation of my gratitude to the parliamentary group. The candidate in his biography says he has a certificate and has gained the status of authorised auditor among the top 30 in the country. I am interested in the fact that the MP group did not hate to propose it, since it has an organisation certificate that they do not accept with disgust. You see, it's this political consistency, inconsistency, or interest. If looked at formally, all these candidates meet the conditions, but if members 17 and 18 are looked at, they are all in conflict with the views of closeness to the government, as defined there, and are in conflict because of that factor called political membership, affection, etc. If you had formulated this item of the agenda, or prepared it that way, there are three parties that are the opposition, come on, suggest independent candidates, we will choose them, because we have the power to care that we have those who are going to scrutinize us, that they are chasing us, that they are beating us on our fingers, that they are leading the proceedings against us – whoever you are proposing, we would probably vote for those candidates, but you want them to be your control. With what right do you ask us to cooperate with you? I don't know why radicals would cooperate with you in choosing your candidates. Let me just draw your attention, when you're waving something, take care of it. You see, only one candidate has made a statement that he accepts to be president. Then we have several candidates for a general statement -- me, this and that, I accept to be president, vice president, member. We have these two last candidates who say we accept being members. So we have a formal one that's proposed for the president, we have two that accept to be everything, just to be there. We have two candidates at the end who say - I can be a member, I accept to be a member. I guess those statements show what the intention is, what it wants to achieve. If you think this area needs to be cleared... That's what I suggested to Mr. Obradovic, since he and when he was the Proposer of the Law on Audit, on this institution, was a formal-legal proposer, but he escaped from the Assembly. Let's go back to the regulations of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia from the 20th and some years. It wasn't an audit institution at the time, it was a commission. Where was the seat of that committee? In the National Assembly, and for the needs of the National Assembly, they controlled all budgetary users. Kind of like a suggestion to think about, since you like that Western democracy a lot. Different variants exist, as these independent bodies are chosen from the importance of the country. In some countries, an interview with potential candidates lasts six months. Who's doing the interview? Legislative body. During the interview, everything is shaken from these candidates, so that those who vote for these candidates are absolutely certain of their expertise, impartiality and commitment to comply with the law. Here it comes down to us, which one said just now, who your guilty radicals are, that you didn't suggest yours. You know when you'd pass ours? Ours can't even be a cleaner in the community since you came to power. That's how you understand power. The government is perceived as its own farce. Someone takes 20 meters of asphalt, puts it somewhere, takes a picture, goes back under the mouse, goes somewhere else, takes a picture with 20 meters of asphalt, etc. And then this morning we listened to a two-hour squabble over the asphalt. You know what the asphalt is about? Because it's 1 to 10. Everyone was fighting over profit, not asphalt. Not who's going to go the other way. No, it's what it's like. And Chume bought it for asphalting. Here, one at Paracino opened a container factory. He says, when he was making, everyone got baptized and said, "What is this fool doing here, what containers?" After a year, the regulations changed, the containers required. He had information. Who can get the information? The one who's close to the authorities. And the government is looking for obedients who are going to a nominate that everything it does was in accordance with the law. There are no conditions for us to choose here. Article 17 and Article 18; I don't want to mention five years that they're out of state, etc. That's what no candidate does.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6047	The People's Messenger Natasa Micic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third item of this agenda that clearly tells us how far Serbia has lagged in civilization and integration flows. In fact, we are the only state in Europe that has no state auditor, as the most serious and important anti-corruption body. The other two points are CEFTA and Kyoto Protocol. We are the last country in the region, i.e. in Europe to adopt and accept these integrated flows. The Liberal Democratic Party will accept the Kyoto Protocol and the CEFTA Agreement, but what distinguishes this from the previous two points is that the ruling coalition under the CEFTA Agreement and Kyoto Protocol has shown its irresponsibility in slowness, tromitude and incompetence, while with the state auditor, this irresponsibility is even greater and very dangerous because the actual ruling coalition has dared to play the law, to play citizens and democracy. It's simple, there's an illusion that a body is formed. It's not about experts at all, it's about persons who have an auditor's license. Even some in the biography have already shown their ability to abuse and conceal, such as the proposed member in front of New Serbia, who was a member of the electoral commission at the time of the 2000 election theft. The Liberal Democratic Party will not vote for the proposal. He has absolutely no purpose, because simply this advice of the State Auditing Institution was drawn up according to the government model. So, the president of the Council is from the DSS, as is the prime minister, the vice president is DS and three members are G 17, New Serbia and DS. That fact is enough to say that this body will serve only to confirm machinations and abuses, so we will have the opportunity to continue in government affairs, from suitcases to concessions, through public procurement without tendering in the MUP, only a body that will in fact confirm these abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6049	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nebojsa Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6050	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SPS will not vote in favour of the proposed list of candidates for members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution for the following reasons. First, the State Audit Institute was established by law in 2005. When you look at the essence, the importance, and what the powers of that institution are, it's that a man freezes. The institution is the highest state body to audit public funds, an independent and independent state body. So, a very important anti-corruption institution, but apparently, as it began with the election of Council members, will pass, as will all those other anti-corruption bodies that were founded in Serbia with the aim of staining the public's eyes and nothing more. On the other hand, such a body as the Council of the State Auditing Institution is very much needed. I'll illustrate that with a few facts. In Serbia, since 2001, no one has been able to find out how huge money is being spent. The budget for this year is 7-8 billion euros, only the Belgrade city budget is nearly a billion euros, and no one has had a chance to find out how that money is being spent. No final account since 2001 has been filed. Moreover, several years since 2001, there has been a story waiting for the State Auditing Institution, then a council is waiting, and then it will continue to wait and it will not go public, nor will it be seen everything that is done with these huge money. We remember that stampede in 2001 when Bozidar Djelic, then finance minister, obtained criminal charges, filed them without evidence or explanation, while hiring people to find something as soon as possible to support the application. And today, they still stand on the rope, so, let's say, you have a criminal record against the chairman of a single institution's board of directors just because he signed a decision by the board of directors, which the board of directors unanimously made, to help families of fallen soldiers in war activities in Kosovo. At the time, the policy was to condemn everything concerning the defence of the country's Kosovo. When, after the government fell in 2003, Bozidar Djelic, himself as finance minister, no longer had the opportunity to find out how the money was being spent. Even so, only when election campaigns were held, were the ministers from one government speaking to the ministers from the previous one how they damaged the budget for strong money, for tens of millions of euros, and nothing more and nothing further. How do you spend money? Here, we had almost an example in Svilajnc when a referendum was organised to replace the President of Svilajnac Municipality, so Dragan Gilas, minister, owner of the National Investment Plan, said: if you change the president of the municipality you will receive funding from the National Investment Plan, if you do not change - there is no. That's how you spend that money, public funds. It was recorded in the press and I'm just passing it on. So, on the one hand, we have a significant institution, and on the other hand, the enormous need for Serbia to know how these large funds are being spent. Of course, great hopes are placed on the advice of the State Auditing Institution to finally come to the control of these public funds. We have a chance to see that this advice will start without credibility. First, this proposal does not even formally meet the conditions to be found on the agenda, as the law clearly states that the committee, therefore, is the competent body, as it stands, obliged to explain the proposed candidates. He says it determines the fulfilment of the conditions laid down by this law. The promoter, and there is no president or vice president of the board, are not present, has not decidently told us that all candidates meet the conditions laid down by law. There was a talk about it just now, and I'm joining it, that there are a lot of those candidates who are now on the state's mantle, the beneficiaries of the budget, and they are here in the proposal. So, the board, as a proposing, did not come out with a clear view and said – yes, all the conditions are met or not. Today, we have those who are against just because they are, as they say, some of the proposed shots of the SPS. I'm telling you, none of the candidates proposed are capable of the SPS. The SPS had proposed candidates, high-level and professional people. They didn't pass again just because they're SPS candidates. We are proud of these candidates and will continue to support such candidates. So, given all of this, given that the policy has been put above the profession and that they have decided party rather than professional criteria, given that it will not be an independent body, that this is the advice of the State Auditing Institution of the parliamentary majority to control itself, we will not vote for such a list of candidates, not one of the proposed candidates. We will continue to insist that Serbia gets answers to each of these questions as well as how it spends the funds. As for all other contracts that have become the subject of attention, not only the Horgos-Požega, but also the one that the state has sold for free the central part of Belgrade, Topcider, 4.2 hectares of the United States, that the exact conditions are not known, although it is a cultural and historical monument, although it is a green complex etc. We will continue to insist that Serbia gets answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6051	According to the Rules of Procedure, we have two announcements, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6052	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So here we heard one finding by my esteemed colleague Mr. Petkovic about the Minister for the National Investment Plan, Mr. Dragan Gilas. So you quoted Mr. Dobrivoj Budimirovic's sentence, which was falsely transmitted. Mr. Dragan Gilas never said he would give money or not give it to someone depending on how the city votes. Simply, the money in the National Investment Plan is not Dragan Gilas' money, it's not the Democratic Party's money, it's the country's citizens' money. It will be directed in the direction where it will be needed to be directed, no matter how citizens in that city vote or not. Nor will the National Investment Plan serve to buy votes from DS, because there is no need for that, we get a sufficient number of votes. That's what he's talking about, Mr. Markovic, the victory of Boris Tadic in the presidential election for those who don't believe. On the other hand, if we talk about the National Investment Plan, Mr Dragan Gilas has visited many places in Serbia, and where elections are and where there are no elections. I understand you didn't mean anything by it, you just misquoted what the Justice daily reported, very dishonest and very false. So, Dragan Djilas never said that in Svilajnc, said Dobrivoje Budimirovic, and put those words in the mouth of Minister Dragan Gilas. That's what he says about him, not Minister Dragan Gilas. I underline, Dragan Gilas is not the owner of the National Investment Plan; Serbian citizens are the ones who will manage the National Investment Plan. It will be as long as the minister from the Democratic Party was at the helm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6053	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Vukovic. The replica of Miroslav Petronivic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6054	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs. Since I am a Member of Parliament in this term, after seven or eight days of the duration of this assembly, I am forced to say that Mr Petkovic's exposure to my dignity, and especially when the SPS MPs come out and talk here about spending people's money and controlling the spending of people's money. Their former officials, federal and republican government ministers, mostly held state money, as we have in various processes, in safes, counting the ministers' hands with some receipts. That's millions of marks, people. How are you not ashamed that after eight days of the assembly session, where every day costs five million dinars, you come out and talk about the last seven years? You ruined your youth, you ruined your youth 300, 400, 500,000 people in the 1990s, you brought Serbia to ruin in 1999 with your irresponsible politics, stupid and deliberate. You're now talking about whether the audit was carried out from 2000 to 2007. You should be pleased that in this room at all, as a parliamentary group, you were represented, which, by mistake, in 2000, you all went to a lustration and you are not forbidden to sit here as politicians. Do you realize that even after these seven years, it's not a problem if you're going to support this proposal for the auditory house? You explain through your speakers who are mostly in investigative prisons and in various processes, why Kertes gave some million and a half marks, why you have a protected witness here for banks in Cyprus and carrying out money in sacks there. That's a confession. He says he was working in the interest of the state. What countries, whose money, who controlled it? Could your final account by 2000, which was adopted, indicate that the director of the federal administration of customs had the right to the foreign minister to pay the embassy to work, to hand over millions of dollars in cash. Your police, with 20 marks on the street that I traded in 1999 to go to the market, brought me in, and I paid a foreign exchange violation for doing it on the street. And you're talking about a million-and-a-half marks that you've been protecting state interests, about billions of marks. Now it bothers you if anyone's proposed. Don't vote, but be pleased that you are, in general, represented as a parliamentary group in this room, because, apparently, you should be repeated daily that you have destroyed both the people and Serbia in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6055	National MP Milisav Petronijevic, replica. May I ask that we have the continuity of the debate. Then the MP Jadranko Vukovic. One moment, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6056	Dear gentlemen, first of all I am not Petkovic, I do not ask you to mention my last name, but if you mention it, at least say what it says - Petronijevic. I didn't have any evil intentions, as the first predecessor said, just quoting what the press had transmitted and precisely because they were people's money and what public spending was required. The previous speaker, before I left, sent me a clear message that I should be grateful and live after 2000, even though I was never in power until 2000. This story of what happened, you've explored it a million times, and it's not a topic, and you won't be able to fool Serbia by talking about it all the time. Here's the theme of how much abuse you've committed. Here is the theme that Serbia has not received an answer from Djelic 11m euros. Here's the theme of the period from 2000 to 2007. It is precisely, by respecting the principle, that everyone who has not respected the law, regardless of which party he was from, for the same reasons we are now asking you, for these seven years, and nothing ugly but just tell me where that money went, because you've explored it many times before. Don't just accuse the regime of Slobodan Milosevic today of not having control over public funds in Serbia for seven years, because it has already faded, it is no longer interesting for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6057	National MP Momir Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's still a great deal of sadness about the fact that after October 5th, the October 6th didn't dawn and that between October 5th and 6th wasn't a night of long knives. However, I did not answer for it, I reported for a lie that has been going on for four years and is slowly entering the ears of Serbian citizens. Ten times or a thousand times a repeated lie becomes true. Mr. Milivojevic, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic was not defeated by Boris Tadic, but beat by DS, DSS, G17, the whole team that came to the "bullocer of the revolution". Mr. Tomislav Nikolic beat Boris Tadic to the punch, if you remember, after the short and the tail gathered, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic remained with 48% of the votes won. In fact, so many Serbs voted for Tomislav Nikolic. That number is far higher at this point, and when the presidential elections are called, you'll see what's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6059	National MP Jadranko Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6060	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since under the authority of this State Auditing Institution will be the control of the property available for use in the military and the Ministry of Defence of Serbia, before you form this state commission, I am using this opportunity to ask the Serbian Government to submit to us, as MPs and this high home, a report on the listed state of property, immovableity and movable matters, which was used by the Ministry of Defence and the SCG military on the day of the end of the existence of the community. Is that arranged and what experts were working on? I'm looking for all asset sales contracts -- immovableities, ships, planes and other weapons and military equipment -- during the period of the SCG state union. Fellow MPs, this is a very important question. I draw everyone's attention because what my colleague Obradovic said from the SPS is true, that it has been agreed on by the members of this state institution and that Parliament has therefore not worked for a month longer than Mr Dulic has promised. So, when we get this, you'll understand why such a schedule of forces -- two from the DSS, these yellow ones, those from G17; to cover up traces of robbery, and we'll prove to you in this part that there was a big robbery right at the moment of the end of the existence of the state union and the separation of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6061	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6062	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 225. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The elemental order and the basic respect for the elected national representatives is to explain this proposal on behalf of the promoter. This is what it looks like to sell fog, to hunt in blurry, something that needs to be most transparent, which should be like the Constitutional Court, a sort of financial business control is trying on a small door, without sufficient arguments, explanations, or explanations. I guess it makes sense for the finance minister to be here. Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the main winemaker of Serbia's tycunisation... (President: Mr Baticu, I warn you that in an appropriate way you are addressing the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't interrupt me. This is what you've done now. Don't ever think about it again. I didn't say Dinkic was a criminal, I didn't say he was a thief, I didn't say he robbed Serbia, that's what some others say. But that the tycunisation of Serbia was possible, that is correct, at a time when he was in the position of the governor of the National Bank and as finance minister. Do you... It would be our turn to explain it. So, Mr. Chairman, I haven't said any disqualification or qualification, but I think that's the elemental order. Also, it would be the turn of the man who also speaks of the expert in this area, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic – who deals with everything and everything and not just with his work, the tramps who go anywhere, deals with Montenegro, NATO Pact, America, Kosovo, which is not his job – sits here and explains it to us. I'd like to ask Mr. Djelic a few more things. Why did he veto it? Serbia lost its dispute before the trade arbitration in Paris with former traveller agency owner Srbo Ilic and decided to return the money, and under pressure from Russian tycoons who bought the Traveler, then the government reluctantly concluded that it would return and pay off. The conclusion was signed by Bozidar Djelic, and now he will not pay that money back and not let the agency pay for it. Pity about that non-return, just for the last 45 days, it's $30,000. Maybe someone will say this has nothing to do with the subject and the agenda, it has something to do with it, it's a non-domestic relationship to the state register and state finances. I will be very happy to ask Mr Djelic, but when he is present, I will ask a few questions about Sinisha Stojcic, better known as Mali Bajja; I will also ask him about Miss Corbic, but when she is there, we will open very interesting topics. I'm not going to deal with that further past and that regime that destroyed Serbia as Alajbeg's straw and that sold the state for good. There are all stories told and it is perfectly understandable that we are dealing with these things or we have to deal with events that are burdening Serbia today because of its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6063	We return to the order of the People's MPs. The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then a National MP, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed list of candidates for the State Auditing Institution today is an example that Serbia should not be working. In fact, if we adopt what the ruling coalition proposes in the voting day, the people who vote for this will make a serious violation of the law, and introduce in Serbia a new rule and the possibility of re-emergement of serious corruption and crime, institutionalised through the State Auditing Institution. In fact, we heard here from Mr Krasic that it all started with the unconstitutional adoption of the State Auditing Institution Act in 2005, but we must remember the amendment and addition of this law that followed only a few months ago. By amending and supplementing this law 60 days ago, we have actually changed members who in fact guarantee a rich working experience of members of the State Auditing Institution and reduced it from seven to five years. In fact, this law has begun to be tailored to certain candidates, who, as we have seen, will appear several months later and who will come here before us. I am aware that some of my colleagues are not interested in this topic today. They don't care how budget spending is controlled, because they know that their parties participate in abuses because, let's say, we haven't had a final budget account since 2001, or even in 2006, even though the proposal came to the assembly, but we haven't adopted it here. I'm aware that they know there are numerous irregularities, but they don't care at all. As a member of the Finance Committee, I had the opportunity to personally attend one, to me an incredible situation. For the first time, I am an MP, and for the first time I met something that I simply couldn't accept and to realize that it could happen in the National Assembly, and in Serbia. We had the first meeting of the Committee, I think it was August 23rd; we appeared at that session of the Committee, and we realized that the ruling coalition cannot form a quorum and that it decides on this, as they say, a very important topic. To not take this wrong, the Serbian Radical Party considers the State Auditing Institution the most important anti-corruption mechanism. This is a way for the state to seriously, whenever it wants, deal with any kind of corruption and control – as the law says here, since the State Auditing Institution is an independent body on paper, which you will see is not – spending budget money on all levels. However, we have had the opportunity to see, since the ruling coalition cannot create a majority, that there is some kind of problem. That session moved for an hour, and after an hour we had another attempt to hold the session and we failed. We failed, precisely because the principle that the government in Serbia has obviously begun to rule today for the State Auditing Institution, which is the principle of clean kidnapping and distribution of power and cookies – until my candidate is given a position in the State Auditing Institution, we will not give a quorum. Now, when we received a proposal from everyone who was interested in having their own members and when the coalition agreed, we had a session, I think it was September 6th, where the proposal was amended and we had the opportunity to plead on party staff for an institution that was supposed to be independent. Don't have a dilemma, when a single candidate for any function, at any level, proposes a political party, that man can't say he's independent, because then he would turn to the state institution or otherwise compete, as they did, for example, in the Union of Accountants and Auditors last year. Since the candidate of any party has addressed the political organisation to run for the body that will control the spending of the budget money, which again through the executive authority has the very political parties... This time I don't speak at all about which parties they are, however, may the Serbian Radical Party be in power. Besides, that's why we didn't propose a candidate, that would be pointless. We're talking about these candidates being truly independent. The competition was to be called, we should have respected the profession and have consulted people coming from the most serious audit body in the selection of capable people. This government has destroyed many companies since 2000 and destroyed the banking system. Were we not able to find capable and independent people amongst the people who have been doing this profession for years to come to control budget spending in the right way? Obviously not. We have here in the text of the proposal, not to appoint these people now, because they are not here, but they are represented by political parties, so they should speak too... By the way, it's a shame that at the beginning of this session we didn't have a reason why these people... First, no one suggested them officially, and we had no reason to accept them. It's a disgrace to the promoter. We've got this one, this one and that one. For example, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposes this and that for Council Vice-President Zoran Tamash as a member of the Council, etc. Other political parties DSS, New Serbia, G17 whose candidates were later elected... It is obvious that political parties are proposing not only for members of the Council, but also for vice-presidents and presidents of the Council; these people are agreed in advance and only pro-forms need to pass the assembly procedure and be elected. I blame these political parties here, these people have exposed, plus what you heard from Mr. Arsic during the day that most of them are currently employed in the state body, in the Ministry of Finance, which is directly building the budget. They cannot be independent of that authority, and therefore they should wait five years to run for this most important state function. Because this is one of the most important government functions. We have such a situation that those of us who were here, as members of the Committee, were presented something that was only a matter of party agreement, and we were to raise our hand and get it over with. It was simply unacceptable for me. I have expressed the position of the SRS, which is that we really cannot participate, because this violates the principle of law, violates morality, violates the spirit of one economic behavior where we want real control over budget spending. It is even said that the work of the State Auditing Institution is being monitored by the National Assembly's competent authority, which is, in this case, the Finance Committee, in which the majority has the ruling coalition. Turn-turn, you have an entirely political-dependent institution that no one in Serbia will be able to say is independent and it will always be controversial when they bring in their budget money assessment whether that assessment was under the pressure of this party or that party, as we know that someone from that party who suggested them will not call and say -- now you control the company where my director is, now you control the ministry where our minister is. There is no control, there is no genuine desire for this institution to be independent in its work. In my opinion, that's the first thing we have to pay attention to today, because it's groundless to talk about candidates later, which you've heard really don't even fit the basic legal frameworks. When we broke the law at first that this institution was not independent, the human resources later became meaningless, to be spoken of at all. For all these reasons, the Serbian Radical Party cannot support the decision. We feel that it is much better for Serbia to have political parties detached one day, and I know that it will be very soon, when the SRS comes to power, that we are truly starting to control the spending of money at the disposal of Serbian citizens, because we and the representatives of the executive government are not chosen to spend their money in the way that we think of it, that we do not account for anyone, and that we are waiting for some of the affairs in the newspaper to start to cover up to the citizens to find out that their money is being thrown away. That is why every second, every moment of its struggle, the SRS will invest in a sharp attack on every corruption, on every crime, until victory and until the moment when we will truly provide Serbian citizens with a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6065	The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6066	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, Mr President, I would like to draw attention, above all to the citizens, that this is a debate which is crucial for the control of all possible budgets and of all possible institutions and organisations in our country, that the Law on the State Auditory Institution was adopted in 2005 and that, given what laws are passed, it is relatively good, and that for a year and a few days, the State Audit Institution has not been elected and functioning and that the Council is to be chosen today. In order for them to know what this is about, it should be said that for four years, and when final accounts have been submitted, let's say, government, companies or party organisations after the election, after the campaign, never the state audit board has reviewed those accounts, nor has there been any control. During this and the previous government, there was no control for four years, an audit of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As we decided today to put it on the agenda, I must inform the citizens that the burden of this falls on our congregation. Can the Committee on Finance and Proposer, vice president of the Committee, without any explanation for these people who are proposed to be members of the Council, be that he is not present here? Please, this is so messy. We have shown that we do not want, as was the case so far, to have control of the spending of people's money. Citizens do not know that it is an institution that controls both the military, police, all possible procurement, political parties, the National Assembly and NGOs, if they have the resources of voters, all local self-government. Let me just point out, it was in the paper the other day, the public company NIS has three million euros for the team. So it's all under the jurisdiction of this State Auditing Institution. What is spent on travel, what is spent on the team, how this poor people's money is thrown away. Today, when we have to choose this advice, this really doesn't look like anything. What do these biographies look like? One writes CV, the other writes biography, there's no comparison of data. Do we know which working body was considering this? Why are we not listed fellow MPs who are members of the Committee on Finance of the Assembly, to see who these people have signed and who have led these people to be on the council of the State Auditing Institution? Please report to the MPs who did this. I don't get involved with any party at all, but Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who is the chairman of the Committee, should have explained to us that we had these proposals and that this was on the agenda of the Assembly. So we're looking for someone on the inside after Mr. Radojko Obradovic disappeared. He's the vice president of the board, who's not here at all. I have to tell you that this biography... It doesn't matter if she was a member of the SPS at all, under the law she shouldn't be a member of any party, but Natalija Ćatovic did nothing on financial affairs, but literally nothing. She represented some kind of company. There is no beginning of biography and CV for the Assembly by where someone graduated from elementary school. Can anyone learn how to make a résumé? What difference does it make where she graduated from elementary school, what difference does it make where she graduated from high school? Let's see what her experience on these jobs is. It's a shame for someone to like their hands and to see who the motions for a state audit are, for the Council. I don't have any words. All morning long, believe me, I've been sitting and shaking, that now, after all these years, there's no democracy without transparency, and we don't have one normal state audit committee. Look at this, there aren't even mistakes fixed. The second candidate, Ljiljana Dmitrić-Scaponja, I apologize to the lady, I do not want to say anything bad, her doctoral dissertation is "The problem of determining the periodic score, with a special reference to our practice". The results of what? What's this doctoral dissertation about? On what basis should we make a decision? It's like talking about the Constitutional Court judges. You have no idea how responsible these institutions are that we need to choose today. I really can't understand that someone has dared, the ruling coalition, to suggest such a mess that we vote on it today. Why should the parties, when it comes to such people, suggest from their ranks, agree that it is very difficult, to throw out some party people's pockets? How do you, Mrs. Hope, speak to you, how do you know in your party who understands this? What do you mean, you're taking a bang and you're looking, you're asking? It's not necessary. So there must be a clear procedure for choosing people. The Assembly and the Finance Committee should discuss public competition and invite the most professional people. And it's true what Mr. Krasic said earlier, all these people are in conflict of interest, and that's not what this is all about. Everyone is in conflict of interest, all of them are state officials who are now crossing from the Ministry of Finance, and should also be controlled by the Ministry of Finance, should be on the board of state audits the next day. So why should parties shake out among their members and party members of such a function, why do we have to have such members? There are qualified people in Serbia. So, if we're talking about an institution like this, this way, no arguments, no defenses, no procedures... Please, there were even more candidates, on what basis did you explain to us why these? There were more candidates, on what grounds did those other candidates fail? How did that procedure go, what was going on on that committee? Well, please, it doesn't happen in the government. We don't know what's going on in the government, very often it's unclear to us, but how can we not know what's going on on our committee? Are we not members of those committees supposed to go from one committee to another and follow what's going on on these committees? So we don't have a report from the Finance Committee on how this happened. I think that could have been threatened by the resignations. Those who are members of the Committee, independent of party membership, were not allowed to let something like this enter the congregation. So, we don't know how those who suggest this brought it in, the procedure isn't clear, there was no explanation why some candidates fell out, there was no public procedure, it's completely nontransparent, we don't know what that committee was doing. I propose to the Proposer, this inconceivable proposer, we don't know which one, to give up this proposal and to provide us with a list as soon as possible which we can really talk about seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6067	National MP Rajko Baralic has a word, followed by MP Momir Markovic. You have three minutes, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6068	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join those who demand that this be removed from the agenda because the personal composition of the future independent body that needs to do the work of the state audit does not suit social needs. Yeah, independent of common sense, that's what they're independent of. Serbia has had a hard time selecting an independent regulatory body to deal with the most subtle expertise in spending Serbia's public income and having the strength to say that it is someone who is the government, or a political party or a public enterprise that has done so, contrary to the interests of taxpayers. This opportunity was gambled at the very beginning because the story of two years ago was repeated when members of the National Bank Council were elected. I'll remind you, that's when an independent regulatory body elected a candidate's son from Kruševec because his mom didn't become a boardman, so that this family wouldn't be a frustrated boy is, neither guilty nor due, the first day of work in life, started on these jobs. We at the SPS have been trying to propose competent and professional people who can do this. You, as you would say, have refused indignity. Your right. It is my right, however, to speak a few sentences about these people and to say that they are more willing and able to do these kinds of jobs than many of them you have proposed here and that will obviously get your support. I have both a human and a moral obligation, and a charter, Mrs. Nada Mijailovic was my teacher, she was my manager, so my associate. There's no candidate who has references like she chose to contribute to you, and you didn't appreciate it. You chose someone else. So, the apostates from one party, the whisper in the other party. If a district attorney were to do something in Topoli, this lady, not to mention her name, she couldn't even be a candidate. It's a party trade and a contract. The lady is not expected, Mrs Ćatovic is not expected to be explicit, she is not expected to control Mr Velimir Ilic, no, she is only expected to be a black link to the eyes of the firing water that shoots at Serbia. She has a mission for the ministry, this great, as it is called, to do everything without anyone answering. (President: Mr. Baralic, time is up.) It's time to tell you, Mr. Albian, that you're doing the wrong thing. That's not right, you have a chance, no one's stopping you from choosing the good people here. I'm sorry, I'll use the jargon, you've concluded this proposal, you've met the party needs. That's not fair. These people need to control, to be supervisors of every dinar that is the subject of public income in Serbia. That's a lot of money. This is a auto goal, you are not able to stream your pre-election promises and responsibilities with one principled human policy, but rather lead a personal, party policy on a rotten compromise that will not bring Serbia anything new and nothing good. So, Mr. Peric, the magistrate, and Master of Nada Mijailovic are many better candidates than those you have proposed. It's not our problem that you won't, but that you choose unprofessional, incompetent people, who will absolutely do nothing else, but will only follow the orders of the heads of the parties that make up power. Just to see how Mrs. Ćatovic will control the concession to build the highway. I can't wait to see, I'm getting worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6069	Mr. Baralic, time's long gone. I'm setting a break of one hour, and we'll continue our work at 15 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6070	We're continuing our work. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let the People's MP Sasa Valjarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Middle Ages there was a rule: when a conqueror conquered a city, then 48 hours had the right to rob, and then law and order were introduced. It's been seven years since the Bulldozer Revolution, and it looks like that rule of 48 hours in these seven years isn't over. In 2005 you remembered that law and order should be introduced, that some kind of control should be introduced, so we adopted the Law on the State Auditing Institution, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It was then expected that this advice from the State Auditing Institution would be formed and that it would finally start to work, to control government and state bodies. In fact, then you remembered that it wasn't all over, so, from 2005 to 2007, the State Audit Institute's advice was not formed, the State Audit Institute was not formed, so in 2007, we adopted amendments and additions to the Law. The amendment consisted only in the fact that it was written in the first law that seven years had to go by from the moment that one who was eventually running for a member of the council stopped working somewhere, so it seemed to you that those seven years were many and then in article 1, instead of seven, you wrote the word five, so five years after you stopped working in the state authorities, in the bodies funded by the budget and in the bodies that the next day, that man who was elected to control. We expected the Proposer to explain the proposal to the MPs. The promoter didn't show up, so it was probably a little uncomfortable for a man to explain a proposal like this. When you look at the proposals of candidates for the advice of the State Auditing Institution, we come to the formula that Mr Dragan Todorovic read two or three hours ago from this assembly speaker, so there was a need for jobs in the State Auditing Institution, so DS needed two, DSS one, New Serbia one and G 17 plus one job. Since you've deployed yourself, instead of the ministry, according to the rescues, so the minister from one party and the cleaning lady must be from that party, you've divided the ministry, from the first man to the last, by the parties, is expected, if this advice is chosen by the State Auditing Institution, that, let's say, this one from G17 will control the affairs of Mladjan Dinkic, the one from New Serbia Mr. Velju Ilic and his jobs, this one from the DSS, this little thing that's left, and these two from the DS have to kill themselves from work. Of course they won't be free, independent, or impartial. Let's go back to this law now and compare it to this proposal, see what's being offered to us today. Of course, none of these candidates have spent five years outside of the institutions that need to be controlled and I don't want to stay on them, names are irrelevant, but I have to say something about this last candidate, for the New Serbia candidate, just one remark before I move on to this. You said she was in the Socialist Party, so she gave 140 squares to the Socialist Party, the municipal board, so she moved to New Serbia, and gave it to them. The lady doesn't change at all, they just change parties in Topoli, she's always the same. Let's get to the point first. "Revision of business regularity means examining financial transactions and decisions related to income and expenditure, to determine whether transactions have been carried out in accordance with the law, other regulations and powers given. "Article 3 says: "The institution is the highest state body to audit public funds in the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Republic). The institution is an independent and independent state body." Do you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the personnel list we received guarantee that the institution to be formed will be an independent state body, independent and independent, or will the party directives be implemented until the end? I would very much like to see how this State Audit Institution will carry out a budget review for 2001, because it has not come before the Members of Parliament so far, to carry out an audit of the implementation of the 2002 budget, because it didn't come either, for 2003, because it didn't come either, because it also didn't come before the MPs in 2005 because it didn't come before the MPs. For 2006, he came but not yet adopted, or you may have calculated that in this implementation of the 2006 budget, you have trained enough to cover up possible malfeasances, and then an audit institution like this, consisting of your people, who today receive salaries from the budget (so that member you have completely pushed under the carpet), completely unbiased and independently to carry out budget audits for 2006. I expect, although I do not believe, that the budgets for these five years before 2006 will be put before the MPs. "The subject of the audit is," he said, "receivements and expenditures in accordance with the rules on the budgetary system and rules on public revenues and expenditures, financial reports, financial transactions, accounts, analysis and other records" etc. Article 10 says: "Revision entities are direct and indirect users of the Republic of Serbia's budgets." I'd like to see how the Democratic Party will control the implementation of the National Investment Plan. Who's gonna dare tell Gilas that he didn't do something in accordance with the law? Since there are more MPs from the Serbian Radical Party to discuss this point, I will have to cut short. I'll just look back on two or three more points. "A member of the Board may not participate and decide in the audit procedure if he has been employed by a person who has been subject to an audit or has performed certain tasks for the account of the audit entity, if he has not spent five years since the termination of that employment or the completion of the work. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can choose these people, but in 2012, because they're getting paid out of the budget today. The Serbian Radical Party certainly won't vote for these, not personally, because we personally don't care who they are, but because of one big scam behind this. As we will now, the Council of the State Auditing Institution will carry out an audit. This is the goat keeping the cabbage. They need to cover what you stole and what you intend to steal until the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6072	I thank my colleague Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6073	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226 to ask a question, ask an answer and an explanation from the president of Mr Oliver Dulic's Assembly. Unfortunately, I've been waiting all day. I see he has obligations and visits to foreign delegations, that's fine, but I would ask him a question that is closely related to this topic we're talking about. So, the application of this law, that is, the election of presidents, vice presidents and council members, has been waiting almost two years. This Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted at the 11th month of 2005. We have a law that was passed in 2003, which is also not applicable, so I request the President of the Assembly to respond when he thinks he has appointed the missing members of the Lustration Commission, since this law has not been applied since 2003 and that he is directly responsible, so the President of the Assembly is responsible and authorised to appoint missing members, and repeatedly through the media he has made a public promise that the lustration law will be applied. But let me go back to this Law on the State Auditing Institution. Already some MPs have said, especially those who, like me, are members of the Finance Committee, that we have waited a few months for the ruling majority to be gathered and to vote on these proposals that we have received, means the names of these people. The problem is that they themselves appeared in public as they were. So the whole point was that one of the parties of the ruling majority was blackmailing these others, or seeking a place for its representative. We've heard today what kind of a member of the council he is. What's so controversial about that? There are several points that are controversial to us. We generally fully support this law. This is a law that leads Serbia to the path of being a modern and civilized country. However, it is disputed that members of the council, president and vice president, are elected by party principle, so we must really doubt that Article 3 which says the institution is a separate and independent state body will be able to meet. With all due respect, whoever's running for president, vice president and council members, we suspect it's possible that they can be impartial and do the job on their own. Second of all, it's a questionable job they need to do. Therefore, Article 9 states – the subject of the revision is the regularity of the business of the audit entities in accordance with the law and other regulations and powers given, and the purpose of the availability of public funds in whole or in part. We have heard today, there have been a lot of debates about how a certain ministry, or certain ministers, have the resources from the budget, and we have no doubt that one of the members of that commission will have the courage to... (Chairman: Time, fellow Marash. If you'll excuse me, just a few more words, so I won't answer again, if that's all right. Also, what is very important is that of the five members who will be on council four are already working at the state institution. You have already passed the Law, or Article 17. Three aspects that I think are important: what are the resources for the work of the State Auditing Institution, what will be the space and what will be the systematisation? I think it will be the first mirror of the ruling majority's relationship with the State Audit Authority. Once again, I underline, this is a good law and we expect you to work under that law, although we must express our suspicion that this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6074	Thank you, Comrade Marash. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6075	Mr. Chairman, I think several members of our Rules of Procedure have been violated in this debate today, despite his not being the perfect act. For purely these formal reasons, I will also give you members 225, 226, 104, and 136, but I am putting the focus on those provisions of our Rules of Procedure which oblige the Proposer to be present here in some way and at the disposal of the Members to answer very important questions concerning matters on the agenda. We don't have it today. Now if you look at these members that I initially cited - 225, 226, it seems a little strange that you can't ask a question, nor ask an explanation, because this decision promoter is not covered by those members. What does this prove? This proves that today's debate is completely pointless. Why is it pointless? We can't fix those failures and those bad solutions that exist already in the law. Here's a paradoxical situation: to choose whoever you want, it's going to be the beneficiary of the budget tomorrow. His work is financed from the budget. Why? Well, because he's gonna get a fee. From where? From the budget. He needs to control the budget. The first conflict of interest that exists, and then that would be what Mr. Moma Markovic said "the wolf guards the flock of sheep". That's impossible. However, I would draw your attention to something that I'm absolutely certain no one in this room could answer me, and it's a public matter, and it concerns budget funds. Here's an example. Neither the police, nor the prosecution, nor any other judicial authority have tried to resolve anything that is obvious, clearly. It is an agreement concluded in August 2001 between Dunav Insurance and the Ministry of Justice. It is ultimately about the rehabilitation of burned pavilions in prisons in Pogorevc and Nis, and it is about huge funds. Just to draw your attention, some people who have been in insurance business for 30 years have warned in time that something like this is not possible, because there is no such risk and does not cover some contract based on which some obligation was made. But it's over. The director was a certain Dimitria Stamenovic. I don't think he's that strong, so he blocked it all, but the chairman of the board of directors knows who Miroljub Labus was. Where do we go from here? I have to tell you right away, the people of this institution you form have to conclude – it was socially justified to get rid of the prisons. By the way, the main culprit for the arson prison is Natasa Kandic. She was the first person to talk to incarcerated Shiptars, terrorists to do it, they didn't want to do it, so she found some criminals and they did it. Don't tell me the state had nothing to do with it; it fits into that period and the scenario that was present.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6076	The People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the agenda point, I must point out that what Mrs Pesic put forward today is not true. She said the Finance Committee doesn't work at all and it doesn't work well. On behalf of the SRS and on behalf of the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, who is otherwise officially absent and unable to respond, I must say that this committee called for meetings in time, that all SRS MPs, and when the summer break, were coming to those sessions, however, the ruling coalition failed to secure the quorum, nor did its MPs attend the meetings of the Committee on Finance, so that it could not have been proposed at all in time, nor could they adopt the proposals, because it was a trade between parties. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to say that this is why the Serbian Parliament did not start working and working in time. So, because of the ruling majority MPs, who did not attend meetings and did not propose certain candidates in time, the session of the Serbian Parliament could not begin. So, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic scheduled the sessions in time and they were all held within the agreed deadline. As far as the proposals are concerned, you've heard quite a lot from my colleagues from the SRS, so I don't repeat. There are four candidates in the conflict of interest, out of five proposed candidates. It is evident that you, who, every day in all means of public information, talk about European integration, respect for the law, about the work of this current government, are breaking an automatic law. The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party then pointed out to you, right at the beginning of the session, that we disagree with these proposals, not because they are proposed by your parties, but because they are in conflict of interest, or because members 17 and 18 are being violated. The law, under which I cannot, is incompatible with the proposed candidates who are already working in state institutions, in the People's Bank and in the other institutions mentioned, being proposed for these functions. A colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic and counterpart Arsic then told you to propose candidates who truly meet the requirements so that by law, Article 3, this institution is independent and independent. However, how can you convince us MPs from the SRS and Serbian citizens that the proposed candidates, who are your party candidates, will work in accordance with the law and will not protect all your ministers? We know that the most important ministries are held by the DSS, the Ministry of Finance, to control this council at the State Audit Institute. Your minister is the same from the NS. There was also the biggest problem, which Velimir Ilic insisted that his member enter this council. That's why they couldn't hold the sessions, that's why you didn't have a quorum, so one day we waited, twice the session was interrupted, so it was called back, so it was interrupted again, until you accepted that a member from the NS would also be proposed as a candidate for the National Auditing Institution's advice, so we scheduled a new session, and then you accepted his NS candidate. The same goes for G 17, whose members talk about how from the SRS every day from this booth accuse them of various malfeasances, etc. You are thus showing Serbian citizens that, in addition to these huge affairs, these various mafias and everything that has been going on in Serbia since you were in power, you are breaking the law that you have otherwise adopted. You suggested it, you adopted it. The Serbian Radical Party and its MPs do not say there should be no control; the law is generally good, but the proposals are in collegiate with the law. So you should've taken maximum care of respect for the legality and the candidates you proposed. When you look at the biographies of candidates you have proposed, we cannot say that they are unprofessional people, however, there are so many professional people who are not in college with the law and do not work on certain functions and in certain ministries. For example, candidate for the chairman of the National Audit Institute Council, Radoslav Sretenovic, is employed at the National Bank of Serbia, in the Nis branch. So, it's directly in the college with the law. Now you are trying to convince the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that you are doing everything publicly and transparently, and I am now going to give you one piece of information that has not been heard here today. This was on the round table in 2004, July 5th, which was called 'The Role of Supreme Auditing Institutions in the Parliamentary Control Process of the Executive Authorities', on which, otherwise your loved ones from the EU, Ambassador Mauricio Masari advised you how to write a law, that is, how to create it and how to apply everything in it. If you'd listened to him then, you wouldn't have done this now. If you do not believe, then take, read and see what he has advised you to do and how to make a law to control you, so that you can go into these European integrations that you talk about every day in the media and for this speaker. You have absolutely trampled everything that has been discussed at the time and as far as the laws governing the EU are concerned. The Serbian Radical Party certainly will not vote for the proposed candidates, not only because they are from other parties, but they should not have been from the ruling coalition at all, they should have been proposed as independent, i.e. that the competition was conducted, and that the admission of professional people was then carried out. We know that after the failure of the banking system of Serbia, the most contributed by Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister when he closed all domestic banks, many other people who were European and world financial experts were jobless. They could compete, and there are plenty of young and professional people who are not members of any political party who could compete. But, no, you know why you did this. This isn't a coincidence. This was purposely done to protect yourself, because you know you won't rule for long. The Serbian Radical Party is becoming more popular every day and it is known that the next SRS elections will take responsibility for managing Serbia, but you want to protect yourself while you are in power, to cover up all your malversions. Because you know what this State Audit Institution is doing – it controls the full budget spending of all and public enterprises where all your directors are. What were you doing? Since 2000, you have replaced all possible managers in all companies, regardless of the results and no matter how these companies did business. That's why you've led to the destruction of many companies, that we've lost 2,000 companies in this robbery privatisation, that many of yesterday's personnel are among the most powerful people in local self-government and Serbia. They had the possibility that through the political parties that were in power at the time, and now they are in power, they are doing various malfeasances, and they are being politically protected. That's why you want to protect your ministers now, too, so that when the law breaks, the frames can't react. Are you saying that the personnel you've suggested will be able to reach one of the ministers or one of your party's tops to object or to give a realistic report when they submit it to this assembly? Labour control is known to be carried out by the highest legislative body - the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6078	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to join all my colleagues who consider the State Auditing Institution to be of paramount importance to the public finances of Serbia. It seems to me that by passing this law two years ago, we were already late, because it was quite appropriate to get that law at the beginning of the transition, at the beginning of the privatisation. Certainly, there would be fewer robberies, there would be fewer abductions in the process. No matter what, we got it two years ago and we had an obligation to choose this advice within six months. With those three years we lost in the beginning, unfortunately, we lost another year and a half and, here, we still don't have advice. In addition, the government has not adhered to its legal obligations to provide equipment, space, and even finance for the work of this council. It is estimated that the work of the State Auditing Institution would require some hundreds of millions of dinars in order for it to function normally and a hundred employees to be able to cover this amount of work provided for by law. It is obvious that the government is unwittingly entering this project to create a state audit institution, and I would say that with such proposals, where conflicts of interest are obvious, it is knowingly going towards breaking the law and that in the beginning the government's goal is to obstruct the audit, the obstruction of this institution. Both the one and the other scenario and the choice of these members of the council corresponds to the government, because thanks to their political belongings they can control them, and the work programme of the State Auditing Institution itself would fall under the authority of the executive authority. On the other hand, if MPs would refuse these proposals, since it is obvious that they are contrary to the law, the government and the ruling majority would be given time and we would go to new proposals. It would be a new negotiation and it would be lost for another year. The privatisation process, which seems to me to be most painful to this government, all the ministers in the government, would most likely bring an end and much of what has been unlawfully done in this process would have been covered up. We, MPs, must not easily approach all these facts, for this law has a significant impact on the quality of the work itself of the National Assembly and of the MPs. The institution of state audit should, above all, be under the control of the Assembly, allow all MPs to have more quality information and to have that information checked and compared with the information that we receive from the Government, and that the institution itself enables MPs to do their job better. By the way, we would be in a position to restore the citizens' trust in the Assembly because the good part is lost, and that is what we are all to blame. It is obvious that this goal is not met either, as well as the very fact that the State Auditing Institution should actually begin to precede all those agencies, all the advice that should have been dealt with by corruption. It was meant to provide logistical support to these councils, because its legal authority was not only to control what was done, but also what was done and what was planned. A series of data would, above all, be provided by the Public Procurement Authority, where we have major problems, because a good part of the funds is being ruined, estimated to be that some 20 per cent of public procurement funds are illegally ending in other people's pockets; the Anti-Corruption Council, which was founded in 2000, but which has not actually produced any results. Also, the State Audit Institute would help the Committee to resolve conflicts of interest to work better, and I would say the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. We in the privatisation process have a strange situation – no one controls privatisation, or controls the sector itself of the Privatisation Agency. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly insisted that we have independent control over the work of the Privatisation Agency. Something similar, unfortunately, is happening now; due to the fact that these people are proposed to the council and that everyone has a political background, we will lose our chance to control privatisation by the State Audit Institute. More for the public than for your MPs, I'd like to count all those jobs that the State Audit Institute should be doing. First of all, it is the control of the government's budget, the control of the budget of autonomous provinces, the control of the budget of local self-government, the organisation of compulsory social security, the National Bank of Serbia; of course, what affects public finances, all public enterprises, companies in which the state participates in capital, the recipient of donations from the Republic, entities dealing with the preservation of public reserves. The institution would also have the opportunity to estimate state and social capital during the sale. Then, to control EU donations and assistance, international organisations, foreign governments, NGOs and the financing of political parties. There is a great deal of business in the jurisdiction of this state institution. That's why it's important. Unfortunately, the lack of interest of the congregation's majority has brought us into the situation that the question is how things will take place with the State Auditing Institution in the future. It has a significant impact on the efficiency of spending all the funds, affecting public expenditure, and thus fiscal policy, so it would be in a position to affect macroeconomic stability as well. Therefore, the importance of the State Auditing Institution significantly exceeds the interest of the ruling majority shown in this discussion. It would be of paramount importance that these proposals which are not in the interest of one normal development and formation of that institution, proposals for members of the council, withdrawal and, hopefully, with one more constructive dialogue, come to members who are independent, professional enough and that, with the help of the government, this institution also gets the capacity needed to carry out all these obligations that are entrusted to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6080	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am reporting in accordance with Article 1. Rules of Procedure. I will ask from the assembly pay phone to Serbia and the Government of Divac not to disturb me, neither me nor the other Serbian radicals, nor the citizens. Mr. Divac has been harassing citizens all day, with the help of the Serbian Mobile Phone, whose user, along with the Telenor user, to avoid insulting the other operator, I have no third operator card. To you who have not understood and who probably cannot read what is written on your display, and I am speaking to you from the "yellow company" DS, since the Government of Divac has always been the Trojan horse of Boris Tadic and your party, and I see that they have been hijacking for him since this morning by the press of the DSS, I want to say that everyone can be a humanitarian in this way and contribute to the improvement of the position of the evasive and displaced persons. It is hypocritical, corrupt and rude and not only to be able to greet him, but also to talk about people like him, who could influence their millions of euros and how they could make out refugees and displaced persons, and not to do it in such a way – with calls from citizens, who come all day through the MTS network, to pay 100 dinars for Divac and his humanitarian team. When did he show this humanity in action that he didn't want to talk to a stranger or try to take action, as was the case with the company "Knjiz Milos"? Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party, which is always on every occasion, every one of its MPs... You know very well that we have refused to participate in what is called the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Fund, because we do not trust Kostunica either, we did not trust Dinkic or the other ministers who were abducted from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We always and at every opportunity help our troubled brothers in Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike Djilas, Tadic, Divca (all of you are the yellow mob that kidnaps and robs Serbian citizens), we, of our money, influence with solidarity that the lives of all people are better. We are the only party that has equipped all schools in Kosovo and Metohija with computers. We didn't ask anyone to do this, nor did we force the citizens to pay us on the client's behalf, and then we will hypocritically give it to someone. Let the gentleman, if he has the opportunity, if he has the money, to establish whatever he wants, it is best for him to stay out of it because he is a complete dilettante for it, to do his job as a humanitarian, but not through the citizens of Serbia. I'm telling him this one more time, with the invitation, Mrs. Radeta will already welcome him with her message as a member of the Committee of Auditors. She says she's already texted. But let it not involve the citizens of Serbia in what his political marketing, however, has failed in the attempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6082	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Zoran Krasic, then Mr Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6083	It is Articles 104 and 136. Rules of Procedure. Let me just continue, let me point out to the public how pointless what is being done today in the National Assembly. What exactly is this about? In 2001, in different variants, through different laws and changes of these laws, we came to this present situation, to have a budget inspection, tax police, we have some vaults at the level of local self-government, at the level of the Republic, etc. But we also have a situation, it was a situation with some previous finance minister, I think it's all about finance ministers, that some of their views, opinions, interpretations of certain provisions of the law go so far as to even change international accounting standards. That is why it is necessary for the representative to be here, to explain to us what will happen in this situation: the budgetary inspection at the level of the Republic has approved the spending of some funds from a position; later it has reached this advice and concludes that it has been illegal. What are we supposed to believe? In doing so, according to the composition of this council, since all the authorised auditors except this last candidate are likely to apply the standards that have been published... I will take, for example, the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia, as the only organisation in Serbia that has been recognised by the international association and which is a member of the international organisation. By applying these international standards, and I must say that these international standards are embedded in our Accounting Act, it finds injury, and then this part of the budget control at the executive level says -- we don't apply those standards, we adhere to the questions given by the minister. What kind of situation is that? I'll give you an example, we've already had this: the Republic Election Commission has unauthorizedly interpreted a member of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and, according to their interpretation, someone was not in conflict of interest. When the elections ended, the organisation that was authorized to resolve conflict of interest found that there was a conflict of interest. I'm simply afraid that by hoarding these organs of control, inspection, surveillance, etc. It's actually clouding the essence. We have a situation that in 2001, remember, Djelic jumped from here, ripped, what he didn't do -- tax regulations must be changed, local self-government must be ensured to have its own resources, etc. When it came to life, local self-government gained even more control, absolute control, but not control in terms of the legality of the use of funds, but party direction of funds. So this is an example of the abuse of state institutions. I'm looking for this proposer to ask him a question, to explain to me, he needs to know the answer to this question. You've exceeded your time, colleague Krasic. Just a second. If he doesn't know the answer to this question, why is he asking us to vote, why is this even on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6084	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rajko Đuric. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6085	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very grateful to Mrs. Borki Vukic, who spoke today about an extremely serious political problem, but also the work of our Parliament. It is about the need to really try to come out of narrow political interests, because if Serbia fails to come out of these frameworks, then all Serbian citizens will pay very high, and I am afraid of a tragic price. Of course, Mrs. Wolfie, don't mind me, I'm not a man of idolatry, but I'm also not one of those who have short memories. I fully agree with you that it is a cancer wound for Serbia and, as the famous Max Weber said, a party as an enterprise, which was underprivilegedly placed in the mouth of the late Zoran Djindjic; Djindjic could never say that, because he is a German student... We are today, I'm afraid, in a situation where we can create a state-owned enterprise, whose employers want to turn both parliament and all its MPs into their own production and service lane. If we continue this way, I think we can get into a very serious and difficult situation. I'm sorry Mr. Dulic isn't here, because I was just about to ask him that question. Me, my voters and my party are no longer interested in the past talks. Those who want to mourn the past shall mourn it day and night. I'm interested in tomorrow, the future of Serbian citizens. I wonder if a man who took all his money out of his pocket at 4:00 p.m. will have money for his children tomorrow for half a loaf of bread. I am interested in whether the train, for example, will travel not seven and a half hours from Kosovo Mitrovica to Belgrade, but at least five hours. I'm interested in when studies will be cheap and whether tens of thousands of Belgrade University students will have a chance, if not for free, to study cheaper, and whether those who will receive a degree in the next five years will have a chance to get a job. If such questions are not answered, then, I'm afraid, our work is in vain. If we don't leave the air of hope to every thousand Serbian citizens, then, excuse me, we ourselves have become a hopeless case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6086	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6087	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 225 and Article 104. First of all, I want to say that I made myself conditionally known in this "yellow company", that is, the union between the members of the "yellow company" and the Government of the Divac. I've written several times about the Government of Divac and I've had one big interview, four follow-up, with him and from that angle I want to comment on, very briefly, the question and the status of the Government of Divac. As much as it is and as the Government of Divac "smooled," it is said, with "The Book of Milos", here, I will quote one sentence – the Government of Divac remains to buy a bottle of "Knjiza" at the grocery store, and "News" at the kiosk. So much for how the Government of Divac was lurking in the purchase of "Knjiza Miloša" and "News". Whether or not we will participate in the humanitarian work of the Government of Divac depends solely on us. If we send a message, we will participate, and if we do not send, we will not participate. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6088	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6089	Mr. Judjevic, you haven't been to this House in a long time, so you obviously forgot your Rules of Procedure, or you've moved on to the one you've yet to adopt. In any case, Article 27 of Rule 1(3) obliges you to take care, in the absence of the President, of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A colleague who had just spoken according to the Rules of Procedure, as a lawyer of the Government of Divac, had no legal or business basis to speak. Natasa Jovanovic reacted because the Divac Government had been harassing her and her all day, and me and all the network users 064, 065. The ones that aren't likely will be during the day, and perhaps during the night. It was her right and she had a legal basis in the Rules of Procedure to react in that way. As for the findings of your colleague about where the Divac Government buys water "Knjiz Milos" and where it buys the newspaper "Evening News", it is his problem, it came from the fact that in an attempt to kidnap "Knjiza Milos" and "Evening News" it got involved with thieves, obviously bigger than itself, and it led them by Miroljub Labus. The fact that they crossed it and lost what he expected to get, that's really not our problem. Our problem is, and I call on Oliver Dulic to put it on the agenda of this parliament, the report on the work of the Survey Committee, which established all malversions during the recapitalisation, i.e., pardon, taking over the actions of workers and small shareholders "Knjiz Miloš". The truth is that the Governments of Divac and Predrag Danilovic remained short sleeves in the business. The truth is that they were breaking the law of those days, and the truth is that they were going after the Arangelovac and the Maltens to get people to sell them action and failed, although they even exceeded the deadline that the law provided for. If you sympathise with him and for that reason, then you go ahead and put as much money into his fund as you want and participate in this false humanitarian action, and we Serbian radicals will not fall for the Divac government fraud, for planting, as Natasha, a Trojan horse, said in Serbian politics. If he really cares about people who need help – unfortunately, there are a lot of those who need help in Serbia, but first of all, the state and all human and humanitarian organisations, but not in this thieving way and not with such a bribery – let the Government of Divac get rid of his buddelary. When led by Boris Tadic in his campaigns, he presents him as someone who has no idea what he has done for the state of Serbia, and before the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He did a man just for his own pocket and used his talent. We respect that, but if he wants to be a humanist, then let him spend a piece of his money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6090	Thank you. Right on line, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6091	My colleague Vujadinović, I can appreciate or not appreciate your writing talents and activities. It is your right to write five books about the Divac and it is your right to ask him to play basketball one-on-one and give you 19 jokes, to let you put in that one basket and beat him, if you play till 21. I mean, to make it up to you because you're so kind to him. It is my right to tell him on behalf of Serbian radicals and all honest citizens of Serbia not to disturb me. And when it's politically failed gloriously, as an infamous politician, it's going to go down along with you, "the yellow company," whether you like it or not, and it's going to happen very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6092	Thank you. Right on line, counterpart Dragan Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6093	Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, straight to replica, now I'm entitled; 101, then. I'll be very brief. My colleague Natasha had only one suggestion: he'd have to give me two jokes, and if he gave me 19, then I'd have to give two baskets, because in basketball, there's one. That's the first one. Secondly, my colleague Natasha gave me one suggestion and I accept it, but I suggest to her: radicals and all of us still need to have some authority. Let counterpart Natasa Jovanovic say, if she knows, which act by the government of Divac in the procedures of buying the company in any way put that authority at risk. Let him say it. That's probably what I'm saying from a better position than my colleague Natasha, because I've been looking at the papers on buying "The Book of Milos" and "The News". That's my waist. The government of Divac didn't buy no "News" or "Knjiz Milos" because he didn't want to go over the line, but he went in a formal-processing sense. That's why he didn't buy no "News" or "Prince Milos". It's my belief, that's my insight into those files. In that sense, I suggest to my colleague Natasha, as she suggested to me, that not all authority would be questioned, because the Government of Divac, in my opinion, based on what I've met him and what I've been having a conversation with him, did not in any way violate legal proceedings, nor did he want to go over the lines in those shops in order to buy one company or another.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6094	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm helping my colleague, Djudjevic, I think it's collegiate and correct on my part. So, Mr. Judjevich, since my colleague used the Rules of Procedure, and I tell you, dear colleague, I have the right to reply because he mentioned me more than once directly. Don't say I don't. You want me to get out of the way? You won't. My colleague, I'm amazed at the degree of whether your innocuousness, honesty, so for your honesty, you say some stupidity or the truth, I don't know what it is. If you're an honest man, then you're, like, someone who's turned out to be this other one at the same time, without offending you, saying something that is the manner of the party you belong to. You, as a People's MP, I apologize, I don't know exactly where you're from, it doesn't matter, as a man from where you come from, you can deal with the work that she sent you and defined in parliament your Democratic Party, which we won in the January 21st elections, beat to the punch, right, so that's clear. My colleague, you can't, and a colleague of Radeta can, because she had a mandate before you and she had the legitimacy of all the MPs who voted for it to enter, as you say, the files and what was happening around the Prince of Milosha. You can't, because you're not even an investigative organ. It's obviously your party's manner of breaking into courts, in the prosecution, of breaking into companies with automatic rifles, with and without them, and doing all that, to get into the files. You've found yourself smart to tell us what you've learned and what knowledge you've come up with. You can do that, because you're talking about the Giant and I don't know who, to guess, to guess, to fantasize, to develop imagination, but you're not the Witch of Radeta and the other members of the Survey Committee, whose report we still don't have. I hope, since you now have the president of Oliver Dulic's Assembly, since you are the man who wants the truth to come out, that soon, here at the next session, we will have a report from the Committee of Commerce and Privatisation, so let's see why Radeta, together with Alexander Vukic, had to come to the National Assembly at the meeting of the Committee on Economics and Privatisation, led by counterpart Nikola Novakovic, to ask in the right sense that this session of the Committee should be interrupted and that the facts be discussed urgently, namely the situation in the city of Arangelovac, where otherwise, the president of the Serbian Radical municipality, was respected Dr Radosav Svabic. Be assured that I know much more about opportunities not only in the company "Knjiz Milos", but also in that municipality and from yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6096	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6097	My colleague, you have, by no means caused, informed the National Assembly and the public of Serbia that Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic is misusing his post. If that is not the case, it is impossible for you to have had an insight into the report of the Committee of Auditors without any other MPs having received a report on the work of that committee of inquiry. Therefore, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I ask the President of Parliament to, when he comes to this hall, inform the MPs on which criteria he shares the material to the MPs. Whether this "yellow" has priority only because of the colour or are MPs, according to this Rules of Procedure that we are still working on, according to the Constitution above all, the same and the President of Parliament must treat everyone in the same way. My colleague, you've heard from my colleague Natasha a good part of what I intended to say. So, the fact is that the Government of Divac, his wife, Snezana Divac, and their friend or godfather, I don't know, Predrag Danilovic, carried the money in the sacks to Arangelovac, that they went from house to house and counted the money literally from the sacks, to give them the right to their actions, I'm talking about small shareholders. Their intention was to go over a percentage of 51, so that the Government of Divac for "Apurna" could buy "Knjiz Milos". It's a public secret, as is the public secret that he spoke to the representatives of Apurne Miroljub Labus at his house, it seems to me that it was October 6th. He was sick that day, so he couldn't come to the government, so in his house, he received a representative of the company in the evening, and he was also in the government on October 5th and 7th. It was established by the Survey Committee during its work. I repeat, the fact that Miroljub Labus deceived the Government of Divac, the Government of Divac Predrag Danilovic, and they, together with Snow White Divac, tried to cheat and cheat part of the citizens of Arangelovac, is their problem, but in any case, it is a job for the public prosecutor. That is why I insist that the survey committee's report be held at the session of this parliament, and that the public prosecutor act in accordance with what the Survey Committee concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6098	Thank you. Good afternoon. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Todorovic. Here you go. I'm just going to give my answer to the People's Messenger, the Faith of Radeth. I don't know what you're talking about, about the report on "The Book of Milos." I don't have that document. When I see him, if you think the report should be shared with all the MPs, I don't mind doing so, as I don't mind all these reports coming up once on the agenda, of course, when we discuss everything that's important under the Constitutional Law, which we all insist on together. Mr. Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, it's a good thing you came to the session to discuss the members of the audit committee. Mr. President, even though we are members of different political parties here, which belong to the position and opposition, we should in some way try to protect the institution of the Serbian Parliament. I think you're the most invited to do that. I don't think the dignity of the Serbian Parliament has ever been humiliated this way. We have a proposal for members of the audit committee, which was formally signed by the Vice-President of the Committee, because the Committee proposes members, although we also drew attention when the law was passed that it was completely insane. We have, undeniably, the fact that members of the audit committee are members of the ruling majority parties. For such an important institution, for the possibility that parliament has by selecting people who will be able to control the way funds from the budget are spent, parliament is giving up in advance and the opportunities it has. Mr. President, you really shouldn't allow it, like you from the ruling parties, because this is not only the devastation of parliament, the collapse of parliament, but the direct mockery of Serbian citizens because you are doing this in this way. You want to satisfy the form, but by satisfying the form you are doing invaluable damage to the state of Serbia. You're full of the mouth of democracy, the desire to help some things change in the state and society, there's no moment when you're not able to mention some of the earlier times, some of the actions, etc., and you're essentially doing a lot worse things than you've ever done. In that one-party time it was perfectly normal, one party in power and within that party everything. When the multilaterals came, we came to the possibility that the parties in power would suggest some things, but now I guess we should get into a situation, when we realized that the mistakes that are made, no matter what the reasons, cost the entire state, the complete society, that we shouldn't be doing them. Today during the debate, many have called for this item of the agenda to be interrupted, when this advice has not been chosen so far, to wait a while longer and to come to the composition of this advice that would at least in a minimal way guarantee that it would do its job and that it would try to justify the trust it received. But how do we do that, how do you allow it when you're here from the MPs for more members of this council to get concrete information that they not only shouldn't be members of the council, but they should be some, uh, moral responsibility that I don't even talk about, and criminally respond. You go through all of this, you don't care at all; I don't know if there are two or three MPs from the Proposer Party here. I'm seeing one MP right now, two. Isn't that humiliating the Serbian Parliament in the worst way possible? I think you once need to stop it and do some things so that the problems that this assembly has (or inherited them, it doesn't matter) are resolved and started working the way the Serbian Parliament should work. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6100	Thank you. I will have to agree in part with you, given that we also have authorised representatives here, or presidents of parliamentary groups. I am sure that in the next period they will participate in the debate on the audit institution and I really think there should be a quality debate. Please don't be incorrect when you call me as president to be here in the O.R. all the time. I come to this congregation first and the last one leaves every day. The fact that vice presidents sometimes replace me is just because I have other obligations up there, but I do work all the time. All right, if you're not, I'm sorry, but I get information all the time to get down there because they're wondering where I am. So, I'm in the Assembly all the time. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6101	You can check in the stenogram, I haven't asked you a single moment where you are. It is quite common and normal that the president of the Assembly cannot hold the presidency all the time because he has other obligations, and therefore there are vice presidents who can replace him in his work. I just said that I was waiting for you to come here first among the equals, to draw attention to what's going on, about a proposal for members of the audit board.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6102	I apologize if I was wrong, thank you for pointing out. I think we can continue the debate on this agenda point. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6103	Mr. Dulic, your environment has told you that I've called in the Rules of Procedure a long time ago, but I have to correct you. I'm the first one to come to the Assembly and the last one to leave the Assembly and that's for years. Don't say it like this, say you're the first. You are the first with security to come, but the first by chronology who comes is me; I beg you not to touch me with this right, everyone knows it, and no one but you uninformed touches it. Article 104 is injured, but it's not Essad's fault either, it's not Natasha's fault, because no one could assume it, and our rules of procedure couldn't regulate what the gentleman who drank the coffee of the Government of Divac would say from this pay phone. Natasha had a legitimate right to point out that something was an obstacle to her performance. When I get a message, jukebox, you know that -- come in, etc., I send a wife or daughter and I take part in some prize game. But that's their commercial message. This message that came from the person concerned is in the same rank as the message we've been listening to for three years from this place. At the time, she was the chairman of Mrs Natasa Micic, otherwise she is currently legally absent. She played a terrible humanity towards Kosovo and Metohija. And you know how? The fines of Tomislav Nikolic, the punishment of Cvetanovic, punish all radicals and those who go on the basis of these penalties are reportedly directed as humanitarian aid to the National Assembly. And now he's some humanitarian with someone else's money. I was just about to make a parallel and say that it seems to me that it's a similar scam when it comes to this message, and that the scam was made by our children who were on Tashmajdan a few days ago. "Stars of the Grand", a fantastic event, the only one in the country where the Serbian language is heard, extremely well, youth was present. Everyone expected Djokovic, Divac appeared, all disappointed. Not expecting that reaction, he ended up stuttering. As soon as he started stuttering, I knew he was a candidate for the DS. So, the fact that the Divac Government paid you for coffee while you were doing the interview, treat it as an exception. His friends, and I know them, and those who were with him know she's cheap, there's no way he's paying for anything. He comes all the way from America for New Year's Eve to Serbia because his wife provides him with free tickets to go somewhere to welcome New Year's Eve. It's such a structure of personality. I don't mind, I wouldn't mention him, because I have nothing to talk about. A great athlete, and should remain as a great athlete in all of us, but as soon as he starts renting his sports fame to anyone and renting it to anyone, then he becomes hateful to everyone, then basically comes to terms with his personality structure. But that's his problem, I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to attach any meaning to it. I just want to tell you, we had those sports ambassadors, seven magnificent, humanitarian work, etc.I want you to do an audit of how much of their personal funds are in that fund, and how many sponsorships there have been from companies, from these others, by the scratch system -- you have to invest in that fund as much and so much so that we can go take pictures, to give, etc. etc. It's not good when some charity works are used for their promotion. The proof of this is Bogoljub Karic, and he sent us messages over his phone. Where is he now? If Divac wants to be a sports size, let him lack the dead ends and demonstrate his hatred in this way because he has not achieved something that he himself has put into his head that must be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6104	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, four minutes and 43 seconds. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only briefly, with the gratitude of my colleague Krasic, to finish this whole epic about Divac and what he did or did not say at the status conference, when he asked that Mr. Zoran Krasic be his chief legal adviser – he is no better than he is. You could see.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6106	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on this item of the agenda is primarily attended by the MPs of the SRS in no way by chance. The best financial experts in Serbia's modern history were just radicals, Dr. Mihajlo Vujic, Laza Pac, Dr. Milan Stojadinovic, and we probably still have the best financial expert in the National Assembly benches today, Mr. Jorganko Tabakovic. As far as the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Board of the Auditing Institution is concerned, it is double missing. First from the constitutional point of view and then from the aspect of the Law on the State Auditing Institution. I would like to remind, above all, that the ruling coalition in this assembly and the president of the National Assembly, is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 5(1). The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to elect the authorities of the State Auditing Institution during the first session after the government's election. This did not happen and responsibility was not chosen by the authorities of the State Auditing Institution as prescribed by the Constitutional Law, first of all, by the President of the Assembly and by the Assembly's majority. If someone thinks that by discussing today the members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution we fulfil the obligation of the Constitutional Law, that is not true. The Constitutional Law needs to be read carefully. Namely, in the said Article 5(1). The constitutional law states that the National Assembly will choose the bodies of the State Auditing Institution. The Council of the State Auditing Institution is not the only body of this institution. On the basis of Article 12. The Law on the State Auditing Institution, in addition to the Council, is still the authority of this institution as president, vice president, audit services and follow-up services. None of this at this time also exists that the ruling coalition will choose members of the State Auditing Institution's council does not mean that the institution will begin to work at all. Like the courts, the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Cassation Court, etc., so the State Auditing Institution will remain a dead letter in the paper, nothing will change, you will continue to abuse the budget, as you have done so far. Nothing will bother you with the newly elected Council of the State Auditing Institution. As far as the legal disadvantages of this proposal are concerned, my colleagues from the SRS have already noted that by law the institutions must be independent and independent. If you look at the biographies of the proposed members of the council, you will see that the council will not be independent or independent. A third-rate party staff of parties currently forming the ruling coalition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been proposed in the Council of the State Auditing Institutions. Now a dilemma is being placed here by Slobodan Jovanovic when he considered English parliamentarianism. The main complaint he sent to the English political system is that one party is represented both in the government and in parliament, but says Slobodan Jovanovic, in the government the party is presented to its generals and in the assembly to its ranks. It's the same situation with the State Audit Institute. The ranks will sit on the council of the State Auditing Institution, and the generals are all known to you: Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, and not to list further leaders of the ruling coalition. Nothing in Serbia will change, this is just an attempt to cover Serbia's public eyes and introduce the ruling coalition itself as a defender of constitutionality and legality. Therefore, SRS MPs will not vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6108	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party was against the Law on the State Auditing Institution and turned out to be at the board meeting, which was spoken of by counterpart Valjarevic... Not on the first in an attempt, when counterpart Grujic from New Serbia was left behind, at the order of Velimir Ilic, because it was necessary for Natalija Ćatovic post festum to be offered as a candidate for a member of the State Auditing Institution, but at the next session when, whether out of spite or because he wanted to, Aleksandar Vlahovic all cheered up – and we have two pieces of candidates for members of the State Auditing Institution, and in his honesty, Mrs Borka Vukic, indeed the legend of our public finances and the banking sector, which Dinkic destroyed, said – and we have a proposal, that is, when our party did. It began to discuss this, and it was quite obvious which candidates would be elected for this institution which should be allegedly independent and out of the influence of political parties, as it stands in the law, and especially in Article 18(2). If this is respected, two ladies and two candidates, including the president of the institution, would be prohibited from doing this job because of the fact that they work in state organisations, or the authorities of the executive authority, which are closely linked to the control of public finances. After the five-October coup in 2000, there was a transitional government, in which the Serbian Radical Party did not want to participate after state institutions, businesses, prosecutors, the Federal Customs Administration was "conquered" by Dinkic breaking into the National Bank of Yugoslavia with an automatic rifle, including all businesses and institutions in our country. As government participants until September of that year, we had absolutely pure cheeks; we had ministers in the coalition government with impeccable biographies, with impeccable ministry management and as much as Božidar Djelic then, attending from Paris to his aunt's couch, or as someone who was a tenant in his aunt's small apartment, tried to find something in the final account for 2000 in the ministries that ran Serbian radicals, it was a blank shot. He tried, I'll tell you how. Dr Branislav Blazic, today's successful president of the Kikinda municipality, served as Minister of Ecology. As a humanitarian, but not as a government of the Divac, but as a humanist and a doctor, he made one of the rural clubs that needed for children the ministry gave away a set of football uniforms. counterpart Milovan Radovanovic, the famous minister of religion in the government in which the Serbian Radical Party participated, has done a great good work for history and future generations by printing, as a minister, the collected works of a great Bokela Serb and a scientist who emigrated during the communism of Laza M. Kostic. counterpart Aleksandar Vucic, in the recent history of Serbian parliamentism and the Serbian government, made it possible for the best minister of information to help people through bona fide. It was indeed the most humane thing, for which in the worst possible way it was branded, against it was led by a hickey, as well as an attempt by alleged investigative procedures for the distribution of food stamps to workers. Not to talk about humanity, now present, and a little bit of degutant, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport in that government; not to mention everything that our Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, has done, as chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, first in one and then in another government. You're all as alive as you can get. You could've made up against Mr. Krasic, I don't know what, and he's making up Djelic's million criminal charges, but there's nothing. People worked for the state and for the people. Coli Krasic was also supplying Kragujevac, Šumadija, in which I live, and all of Serbia, not only the necessary provisions of life, which would never go with you in such a situation, because, not all of you, I am talking to you, but to your leaders, many of you fled and hid in a mouse hole. The humanity in action was so great by individual ministers of the Serbian Radical Party that, let's say, counterpart Jovan Damjanovic entered every Roma settlement to help his fellow countrymen, whom no one had visited in such a way, as only the Serbian Radical Party made for the first time in Serbia's history one Roma appear as minister in the Republic government. Here, we came to this day, until 18 September 2007, from the fact that there were no malfeasances, nor were there ever any Serbian radicals, we came to the fact that there were robberies, kidnappings, thefts and who knows what else from the state enterprises, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because you were not, which you promised, how you like to say it – transparent. Because, if it were, we would have one today from the State Auditing Institution without this farce (here, I am an MP in this House in 2000) or, it is desirable, all six final accounts. This way, by introducing this manner of not knowing where to kidnap and steal, by voting in 2001 Djelic's Budgetary System Act, we came into the situation (that is to say, whether Serbian radicals or from other parties, the economists) that through two contingents marked with 423 specialized services, and 425-services per contract, you can in local self-government in the budget of the Republic of Serbia to subdue whatever you want, to rob, to steal, to keep no one's accounts. That is, by the way, the main puck that you've been given and the one that oversees the work of the Republic's Finance Ministry and our budget, a certain Harold Hirschoffer, representative of the International Monetary Fund. It is he who resents you, that these two funds, specialised services and contracted services, and such a radical Djelic's Law on the budgetary system are the main basis for machinations and robberies. You're going to convince us now... Here, by chance or not, because of the nature of the work I do in Šumadia, in the district I live in, I know Mrs Ćatovic as a candidate for New Serbia. I could see about these others based on the reference and what Aleksandar Vlahovic was saying. Because of the law and because they've always been in your political parties, they can't control our country's budget public finances. That's why it would be good, Mr. Dulic, after you joined, to come to the end of the debate, to invite a colleague of Obradovic to see where he is. Or, break this farce, since we have candidates who do not meet the conditions, since the State Auditing Institution is farce, kindly withdraw this proposal from the agenda, you have that authority. Or let his colleague Obradovic do it. Otherwise, you will send a message to the citizens, with a warning from the Serbian Radical Party, that everyone remains allowed. Natalija Ćatovic and any other candidate elected here today will never come to a local self-government company in which you are in power to try to determine where the robbery and theft are being stolen. It will continue, and the citizens will pay dearly. That's why, Mr. Dulic, it's up to you, what our people would say, and the knife and the cake, please, you will bear the responsibility. Don't tell us at the next session how you're going to round up Article 5. Constitutional law, when you're alone in this whole farce, and all of you who are going to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6110	Thank you, too. The word has the People's MP Verica Radeta, let the MP Zdravko Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6111	Ladies and gentlemen, again, I would like to warn the professional public that Serbia is in an unconstitutional state, that responsibility for such a situation is borne by Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and Oliver Dulic because we have not yet fulfilled all the obligations under Article 5. The law on the implementation of the Constitution. What we have on the agenda today is only part of that obligation, but, as we heard all day, we are discussing in a very interesting way a proposal for members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution. With the opposition of the MPs, above all by the Serbian Radical Party, by our insistence on the application of the Rules of Procedure, we have managed to bring as much as we can to the order of the minister in the government of Serbia, so that we do not begin the debate until the resolution minister is present here, so that we can speak to him as a proposer. Here, and today it was planned to continue with the amendments, i.e. the details of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Citizenship, but when we learned that the resolution minister is not in Serbia, we were asked, and it was accepted that the session should be postponed for tomorrow. So, we managed to get the ministers in line, but it looks like we're having problems with fellow MPs now. I remember, and I also remind all those colleagues who were MPs in the last meeting (and there are plenty here) how much Mr Radojko Obradovic insisted on the adoption of the Law on the State Auditing Institution, how much he initiated the adoption of the law. He spoke here, about, that nothing in Serbia can and will not work until the law is passed, until the authorities are elected according to the law. Now we have a case that I guess it's the only law that's been passed, that's been in effect for two years and that hasn't been applied at all at any single point. But in the meantime, it has been changed, because Rade Obradovic also explained that there are no experts in Serbia who would meet the conditions laid down in the Law on the State Auditing Institution, so when it comes to working experience, it is down to five years of age. These are, among other things, the reasons why we Serbian radicals think that the presence of counterpart Obradovic here today was necessary. If, for example, he's not here for legitimate reasons, then I find it very interesting that none of the colleagues in the ruling coalition have spoken a single word about this proposal. Is it possible that you dear colleagues don't know who this is, that you have no idea what's on the agenda? Or are you so sure of these suggestions that you don't think there's a need to explain, if not to us, at least to the public of Serbia what this is about and who this is about? With today's proposal and what you're likely to adopt in the most harsh way you're breaking the law you've brought yourself, you're violating Articles 17, 16 and 3. Law on the State Auditing Institution. It's really something that's inadmissible and unforgivable. We can accept that you will choose the representatives of your parties to such significant functions, but we have warned you, when this law has been passed, that you are not lying to yourself, or to us, or to the citizens of Serbia, that it will not be written that it will be extra-party people, that it will be independent in that sense, because it is simply impossible. You should have predicted in the Law that you, or someone else, as the ruling coalition or the ruling party, would be able to propose candidates for these functions. When we passed the Law, we warned that it was inapplicable, among other things, because it did not specify exactly how members of this council were proposed. It was only said that it was done by the committee responsible, the Finance Committee. In what way do the Committee members walk down the street and catch people by the ears and bring them in to see if they meet the conditions, do party lists come out on municipal and county boards? There are no colleagues from Obradovic, will someone here not smart enough for us to explain how you choose these five people we are discussing and which ones will you choose? What are these criteria, and why are they? They may, for example, meet the conditions, and you hear and hear that they do not meet, but those who meet there is probably much more in Serbia. Why can Radoslav Sretenović, and not some Marko Markovic, why can Ljubica Nedeljkovic, and not some Janko Jankovic, etc. It's clear, of course, and it's been said here that you've divided towards the ratio of power in the government and in the congregation majority. Two members of this council are from the DS, the president is from the DSS, one member is from G 17, one member from the NS. Of course, none of these people meet the conditions laid down by law. It has been said many times today that four are in direct conflict of interest, because they receive salaries from the state budget and day and day, and I don't know how they will control budget spending. This is just the top of the pyramid referring to this audit institution; now, as Mr. Todorovic said today, Serbia will begin writing the needy at municipal levels, and again the representatives of these parties that make up the government will lower this audit institution and the level of municipalities. My colleagues have spoken specifically about these names, and I will skip this part this time, but I will ask Radet Obradovic, in absentia, he may think of reading a stenogram from today's session, whether he is as a proposal to us guarantee that these people you choose in the advice of the State Auditing Institutions will really do their job. Whether Rade Obradovic or perhaps you who will vote for these candidates will guarantee that they will launch criminal proceedings in accordance with Article 41. The Law on the State Auditing Institution? Will he file a criminal case against Parivodic, a former minister, and now Kostunica's advisor, for selling to the US state four hectares of land on Topcider? Will this council file criminal charges for purposeless budget spending because we didn't have final accounts from 2000 to today? Someone said today or threw it out of place that we have for 2006. We have this material, but until it's discussed here, it's like we don't have it. Will this council initiate criminal proceedings for the party's allocation of loans from the state budget, by Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Mladjan Dinkic, above all? Will this council launch criminal charges, not against Zoran Djindjic, because he is not alive, but against his then Deputy Prime Ministers, Covic, Korac, Mihajlovic, Ceda Jovanovic, and after Zoran Zivkovic, Vojislav Kostunica, because they have not submitted to the National Assembly the final budget account for all these years since the DOS in the "bulogous revolution" took over? The award-winning question for Mr Radet Obradovic and for this advice of the State Auditing Institution that you are choosing – will you initiate criminal proceedings against our colleague Vuk Dinčić because he told the citizens of Zemun "respected fellow citizens and fellow citizens", he sent a letter. And this is a kind of harassment, not because the party has no right to put its propaganda material in boxes, of course there is, but this is not propaganda material. This is either a lie, and if it isn't a lie, then Vuk Dincic, as chairman of the DS Zemun Municipal Committee, must go to jail because he informs the people of Zemun that 3.335.090 dinars from the Belgrade city budget The Democratic Party spent on the organisation of the Jelovac park in Zemun. Yes, the Democratic Party. No, it's not from the DS budget, I wouldn't react, we Serbian radicals from the party's budget bought houses for Jasa Tomic, for Leskovac, computers for schools in Kosovo and Metohija and such actions are supported by each party. Vuk Dincic informs, either lies or is true, that the DS, the Zemun Municipal Committee, is out of Serbia's citizens' pockets, because on the basis of the republic's budget, funds for the city of Belgrade have been allocated to the city of Zemun, hence, from the state budget, up to 3.335.090 dinars. This really looks like these messages sent by the Government of the Divac. I heard that I was not the only one who returned the message with a text that Vojislav Seselj sent to Holcius and the UN tribunal Secretariat in due time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6112	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic, and the next speaker is Zdravko Topalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6113	Mr. Dulic, it's a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure. It is a member who regulates the rights and obligations of the president of the National Assembly. I can understand that you are helpless when it comes to the security of presence in the National Assembly of Government Representatives for a certain item of the agenda. When it comes to the obligation to attend a meeting of the National Assembly as a proposalary, it is totally unacceptable. If the person who is authorised to represent the promoter in this agenda is not in the room, and this is the MP, I think that any debate on this proposal for a decision should be terminated, that is, on this agenda item. Then we demonstrate our indiscipline, for the same behavior we attack the government, and tolerate when it comes to the MP. I believe that for one normal and healthy discussion of each item of the agenda, it is necessary for one who represents that item of the agenda to be present to give further explanations to the MPs. So, Mr. Radojko Obradovic would have to be here today and act from this pay phone with an argument as to why it is necessary to adopt this decision, not to get into this situation -- we all know what it is, and then someone is criticising, and someone is pretending not to hear. It's unacceptable for a single parliament. I could also ask some questions, since it is quite possible for such a situation to arise in the work of this counsel. Let's suppose Mr. Dulic has some of his firms and he concludes that through some company, with some of his friends, he can promote that some of the paper he imports from Croatia is sold to state authorities. That government contractor knows about it, gets into that combination. Are these the people you're proposing capable of desecrating this prank? Of course, Mr. Dulic, this is an assumption, this isn't something I have proof of, so I'm saying. No, this is just a guess. Another example, here, to be honest, are these people capable of, say, discussing the situation in the Nish City Construction Directorate? Do you know that a lady who's deputy health minister, Nevena Karanovic, has been using this fund's apartment for years, and no one's kicking her out? Is it possible that she's up to speed with the director of that department and how these people you're proposing can solve it? We're looking for, say, those explanations. (President: Time. I expect you to tell me when it's time for us to get those explanations. We can't play deaf phones. The opposition attacks, the opposition makes an argument, and the government is wise to remain silent. - Shut up and what's he doing? When someone attacks you on the street tomorrow, calls you or gives you an attribute, etc., don't blame me. I'm not guilty and I have nothing to do with it. Come out and explain, say, Mr. Krasic, don't worry about it with paper, we'll get into it, we'll get through it; these people are qualified, since you've shown us that phenomenon, we'll certainly prevent it from happening at the beginning. But there's no one to answer that. (President: I hope so, Mr. Krasic. Thank you very much. Mr. Dulic, this intervention of mine has nothing to do with this, and it's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6114	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zdravko Topalovic, let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared and we will conclude the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6115	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, before we comment on the biographies of the candidate for the council of this institution, I would also like to remind a little of some of the jobs, the conditions for the selection of members, the review programme, and the launch of a misdemeanour procedure as regards members of this council. Under its jurisdiction, the State Audit Authority shall carry out the following tasks, only indicate some: it shall plan and carry out an audit, in accordance with this law, adopt sublaws and other acts in order to implement this law, submit a report in accordance with Article. 43rd and 44th of this law. In order not to list other tasks that this institution is carrying out, I will refer to the members of 43 and 44 who are and how interesting they are. "The institution reports to the Assembly by submitting an annual report on its work, special reports in the course of the year," and here, a very interesting way, "reports on the revision of the final accounts of the Republic's budget, final accounts of the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations and consolidated financial reports of the Republic". The institution also reports local authorities' assemblies. I'll give you an example of the Cuckoo community I come from, which if it's not in the first place by corruption, then it's definitely at the top. I would like to remind you, the authorities of the municipality of Kukarica form DS, DSS, G17, a phantom coalition of Karic's party, the Peasant Party of Serbia and that third committee member, unidentified, simply, his party no longer exists. In recent times, we have an example of Mrs Nada Kolundzija who has fled from Covic's party to the Democratic Party. There, Covic's party's parliamentary group, the disintegrating party, defected to the DS. This is why this article is important. At the pressure of the Serbian Radical Party's committee two years ago, the municipal authority hired one audit agency to determine the right state of business of the Kukarica municipality's business space. What did she find out? Although the agency owns the Democratic Party, it found a deficit of 29 million dinars. Because of the untrue submission of financial reports in the balance sheet and the balance sheet of success, the then-president of the municipality of Alimpic and the director of the Covic party's business space were not held accountable. Why? Because he's a public defender from the G17 Plus party now participating to the authorities in the municipality of Chukarica. So the selection of these members of this institution will apparently create some picture of the control of the budget users, and in fact it won't lead to anything new. The uncontrollable sucking of budgets in the pockets of crime groups and, normally, corrupt government officials will continue. As for the election for members of this council, it should be recalled that it is incompatible for someone who is employed and paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be a member of this council. There is a direct violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest and none of these candidates fulfils that condition. Therefore, if these candidates are selected, conditions are obtained, as referred to in point (3) of Article 22 - by taking over a job or function that is incompatible with the function of members of this council may be called off by these members. So all five candidates have incompatible functions and cannot be members of this council. Therefore, you were called by the MPs of the SRS to postpone this election. Unfortunately, you make up most of the Serbian Parliament, you will likely vote their election. With this choice, you will close the cycle of corruption and crime of all crime groups that steal taxpayers from Serbia, i.e. you, Serbian citizens, uncontrollable spending of funds from the budget through all the criminal actions of corrupt government officials, and certainly tycoon in Serbia. I will take this opportunity while I am at the pay phone to publicly thank my colleague Verica Radeti, colleague Aleksandra Vukic and all the Serbian radicals who have revealed a defamatory role of the Government of Divac in the purchase of actions by minority shareholders of Knjiz Milos. I thank you on behalf of the employees of the company "Knjiz Milos" from which I come, and there I am manager of logistics in trade marketing, we have a nicer word in Serbian -- in sales marketing. Thanks again. It is necessary to break the name around Mr. Government of Divac who, at the same time, also played on the map "Cola Coke"; what failed with the company "Knjiz Milos", unfortunately, "Coca Car" achieved by buying "Vasin Rose".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6116	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the election of the President, the Vice-President and three members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution is a continuation and confirmation of the contradictions of the Law itself on the State Auditing Institution. That, in relation to Articles 17, 18 and 19, was extremely well explained by our colleague, Mr Krasic. You have seen for yourself that the role of the proposed candidates for presidents, vice presidents and members cannot be achieved because they already work in institutions funded from the budget and that is incompatible. At the very beginning, it's a conflict of interest. The question arises whether you suggested them to pass or proposed them to get rid of them, as some of their personnel who weren't so high-quality, because you knew they couldn't be chosen by law. What's a coincidence, to start with these thank-yous of certain candidates who thank the parties who ran them, is, for starters, the capara, now the lady will thank herself, and when she's elected, much more will be paid back to the party who proposed her. Article 12 of this law states: "The delokrug and the way in which the services of the institution, internal organisation and the systematicisation of jobs are carried out is closer to the act of the institution, which brings advice on the proposal of the president of the institution. "We're coming up with why you suggested these very personnel. That is why it has been done, so that the staff who are elected may repay all the parties who have proposed them and all the personnel who will stand behind them. Now the president of the council institution will make the council work systematise and then, according to party criteria, who tasked him, who thanked him, he will hire personnel from those parties. So we're going to create a piece of advice that can count 10, 20, 30, 40 people, there's no limit on how much it's going to count, because it's always going to be able to say that the amount of work is so big that it has to be employed and that it's going to expand the job. We have another coincidence; Articles 17, 18 and 19 I will skip because Mr Krasic well elaborated it and made it clear to everyone that it was really illegal. What I'm saying is I'm gonna keep going on and on with this story. There is a member of 33 foreign experts or, as the people say, foreign associates. Why do we come to this - outside experts? It means that "the institution in the audit process may hire external experts to carry out certain tasks under its jurisdiction, if the audit requires special expertise which the institution does not have". Now I don't understand why an institution that admits in the beginning can happen not to have any special knowledge. Foreign expert associates in the Institute's auditory work, so it's some art in the economic, financial sphere. We can make a good institute, but it may happen that the staff who are employed at the Institute, who are the staff of some parties, are not professional staff, and then you will always have an excuse and an explanation that you have to take someone on the side, that you have to pay for it, and it is known that they are external professional associates, that is so-called. work contracts, extremely well-paid. It even states here that the external expert of the institution must have appropriate expertise and experience. It's normal to mean that whoever's in the institution has to have it all. If there's all this, there's a question of why Article 33, where should we take... It even states that an external professional associate could be a natural or legal person, it's quite normal, but that he can also be hired as a legal person, as a firm, or as a natural person from abroad. When someone comes from abroad, how it will be paid, how much it will cost, and by what criteria will we determine, i.e. This advice will determine a person from abroad, especially if it's a physical person? There's a party criterion here, but how are you going to look on the side when you bring someone on the side? We have the right to suspect that a person will be brought to the side of the ruling coalition. What is even illogical is Article 35; it is nice to say what the revision programme should include every year: the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation of compulsory social security, the corresponding number of units of local self-government, the business of the National Bank of Serbia relating to the use of public funds and the corresponding number of public enterprises, companies and other legal entities that have established a direct and indirect user of public funds. I'll put an accent on Article 35 in paragraph 5. So it's a proper number of public enterprises. To be honest, we know who are representatives of public enterprises, who are directors of public enterprises, who is on boards and boards. So these are all frames of the current ruling coalition. The audit house and these institutions, when they get there, and they're members of individual parties... And that they are not members of individual parties, as soon as they have been hired by the party, they have an obligation to the party. The question arises whether they will not, but rather be able to be honest in their part of the job, so that they can enter public enterprises where they are, for example. The Director of the Public Enterprise of the DS, so now he will come, will find him by revising that business was not right in financial terms or through documentation, that it will enable him to have his integrity, that he has the independence of the work he is doing, if it is known that behind that public institution or public firm and public enterprise there is a director who is a member of a party that is influential in that party. You will see that there will be a conflict of interest, a conflict of interest of those working in the auditory house and conflicts of interest of public enterprises and directors of public enterprises, members of boards of directors. I'll take an example of the municipality of New Belgrade. SO Novi Belgrade has made a decision not to hire an external auditor. Why won't he hire an external auditor? If someone on the side came, he would establish all the violations in the Public Business Area and in the municipality itself, from public procurement to other manipulations and machinations that took place. Why was there a choice of these people? Just because it couldn't spread the truth about malfeasance in public enterprises, banks, municipalities and local levels. It is something that is made clear that it is not appropriate and that what is said is extremely incorrect. It was much easier and more correct to call one contest, where the Assembly and we MPs here could decide on each member. This is the list of wishes of all parties, and it is proposed that people who will have to do so in any way, and will primarily have a moral obligation to the parties who have proposed them, repay them. It automatically creates a dose of mistrust in all of this process. If it had been a public competition, it could have been discussed on every candidate, and I think there are honest extra-party figures in Serbia, professional in economic and legal spheres, so it could have been much easier to find and justify the role of the people who are here. No one is against the fact that there is a Law on the State Auditing Institution, but this way and this choice of your staff already raises the suspicion that this will be done in the sense that it should be done at all, that it will justify the first task and obligation under the Law on the State Auditing Institution. I was under the impression that you, Mr. Vujadinovic, would like to propose Divac as mayoral candidate and also some auditor's director. You've given him so much credit that maybe he'd answer, according to you, to be an auditor. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6118	Thank you very much. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, what has been seen unequivocally from this debate, and no one has disputed, is the fact that the State Auditing Institution is an institution of special importance to the state and to the citizens, because this ensures the control of public finances, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is one of the serious instruments for the state to fight corruption. In that sense, I didn't realize that anyone here has challenged the need for such an institution to exist. What was the subject of the dispute is the way the proposal took place. Therefore, the fact that the Law stipulates that the Finance Committee is the competent body proposed by the members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution automatically leaves space, in a sense, for the accusation that the party is then involved in the proposal, because these committees are party. So it's hard to defend against that kind of accusation, even if we claim that the people we've proposed are not party members. I feel obliged to say, and I really don't need to defend Mr. Radet Obradovic, he is as vice president in the absence of the chairman of the Finance Committee as a formal proposer of this act. In that sense, this is not his proposal, this is a proposal agreed within the framework of members of the Committee on Finance. I also need to say that if there is an objection, then we should be guided by the candidates, and we are behind the people we have proposed we have found that they are qualified enough and have enough moral and other qualities and qualities to do this job in the best interest. Of course, there is an open question about whether someone will act by law, conscience, and expertise. We also had dilemmas like this when we proposed a trustee for information. At that time, it was a fundamental observation that he was a party man and that he would protect those who proposed him. It has been shown that people who take their duty responsibly can act solely in accordance with the law and exclusively in accordance with professional responsibility and obligation. What is also important, this assembly will be able to have insight into the work of the Council of the State Auditing Institution and in this sense we will all examine this decision together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6120	The word is Jovan Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6121	President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I just want to point out that this election of the Council of the State Auditing Institution ends one cycle of two years since we entered this business and that a very important role and a significant contribution to the adoption of the law was made by Mr Radojko Obradovic. In this regard, complaints were not made against him and his work, given that he, in addition to this contribution, was at this point the rapporteur of the Committee, as vice-president of the Committee in the absence of the Committee president, who would have to explain the proposal for this decision to the Serbian Parliament. It is not necessary to point out that the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica will support the election of the president, vice president and members of the state audit institution council. The candidacy process was very transparent and clear and parliamentary groups participating in parliament's work, and also in the work of the Finance Committee, they had the opportunity to propose candidates, to open discussions at the Committee's session itself and to carry out the selection of the best candidates on this basis. We believe that the best of the proposed candidates have been chosen, and in this regard we believe that those responsibilities and those obligations of the State Auditing Institution and the President, the Vice-President and members of the Council will be carried out in accordance with the law, securely and transparently, and will report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on their work. We are convinced that no political selectivity on this issue will be and that all the items and entities of the audit provided for by the law will be properly subject to review and that in Serbia at last, when it comes to public finances, transparency will be introduced. As I said, the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica supports the election of members of the board of the State Auditing Institution. We would like to point out once again that our MP, Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Radojko Obradovic, has made an outstanding contribution to regulate this issue in Serbia. There are no references related to him and his work, and I believe that all those who participated in the previous congregation’s meeting know what he contributed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6122	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6123	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm surprised by some of the things my colleagues say. Here they say that Mr. Radojko Obradovic was just the vice-president of the Finance Committee and did not participate in making such decisions, etc. Let's get some things straight. First, when you advocate this transparency, why didn't the Finance Committee call the competition, not that political parties were proposing candidates for members of the Council? Then let's look at the biographies and the professional training of those candidates who would compete and decide who we're going to propose as a candidate to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No, it was strictly political. No one can convince me that behind the candidate you are proposing is the party that proposed him, that he is not a member of the party and that he is not seeking protection from the party. Here, the simplest example is the candidate for Vice-President of the Board of the State Auditing Institution. Current position -- senior advisor at the finance ministry. Whose suggestion is that? Democratic parties. Who's the finance minister and what party is he from? From the Democratic Party. Now convince me she's not from the Democratic Party, too. Furthermore, just to remind you, I don't want to talk about how the presidents of the congregation's working bodies are elected, by which key, etc. However, some rules have been established and do not transfer those rules to others, and the rule is this: when the assembly majority proposes something that one congregation working body needs to bring, the president of the working body convenes the session, the working body makes a decision and that the opposition's representative does not defend what most people require is the rapporteur, in this case Radojko Obradovic. And another thing, gentlemen of the ruling majority, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party took part in the work of the Finance Committee when he made this decision. We have warned you, the assembly majority, that what you are doing is a violation of the law that you have passed, and Mr Radojko Obradovic, and that there is no moral basis for such candidates to be found before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because it is immoral and illegal, all our MPs who are members of the Finance Committee have come out and refused to participate in the vote. Don't expect the chairman of the SRS to defend your nonsense. As the MPs of the SRS did not want to participate in the work of the Finance and Voting Committee, be assured that we will not take part in this farce in the election of the State Auditing Institution and members of the Council in the day for the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6124	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6125	Mr. Dulic, first I have to meet the other MPs, who may not have followed what was going on in these last minutes. Namely, counterpart Palalic of the DSS intended to report at the end of today's debate to speak as an authorised representative of his parliamentary group. I noticed that, I intervened towards you from the bench, and you obviously drew his attention that he couldn't do it. I'm not putting this on your soul as something negative. On the contrary, I mean, for the sake of correctness, that every time it comes to determining an authorised representative, you are flexible enough. If, at the beginning of some item of the agenda, a parliamentary group (I speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I suppose, is not enough to give you a written copy of who will be authorized by the MP's group, you have accepted that every time I come to you, or from place, anyway. I wouldn't mind if the Democratic Party of Serbia did the same, but she did this this morning. Today, at the end of the debate, one can't think of an attempt to smooth out the situation, because of the 33 DSS MPs today, there was one single MP in the O.R. The only MP is trying to defend Radet Obradovic's character and work, who, Mrs Kolundzija said, is by chance a representative in the absence of the chairman of the Finance Committee, which is not true. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, would in no case have been an authorised representative, but proposed to the Committee, which was accepted by most members of the Committee, to be Rade Obradovic. Jorgenka Tabakovic cannot represent before this parliament something that neither she nor her parliamentary group stand behind. Therefore, this was an attempt to show up at 17:30, when there is an approximately greater view of parliament's work, someone with several sentences spoken from this place to explain to Serbian citizens that it is the Democratic Party of Serbia that is very interested in solving both this problem and all other problems. So, I stress that the DSS MPs did not participate in the work on this agenda point. Neither DS MPs nor G17 plus participated, but at least they were present during the day, unlike DSS MPs. Mr Palalic, what you just tried to do is very incorrect and it is a great honor for you to abuse the Rules of Procedure to impress people who are interested in the fate of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens know that while their fate is in the hands of DS, DSS and G17 plus, there is no luck. Therefore, of course, there are new elections and new people waiting to take a more serious approach to solving Serbia's citizens' problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-18-0.u6126	I'm concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will join the vote on the proposed candidates for the president, vice-presidents and members of the Board of the State Auditing Institution in the day to vote. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTARY INSTRUMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have received a proposal to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly of Dr Oliver Dulic. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been submitted and no one wants to speak, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Minorities - the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the National MP Balint Pastor, president of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Union of Roma Serbia - the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Having carried out a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We interrupt the session and continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 129 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanovic, Nenad Canak, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Jelena Markovic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State of the Republic of Serbia (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Ivica Dačić, Dr Vladan Batić, Dejan Mirović and Miroslav Petkovic. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradovic. Zarko Obradovic is the first, you are the second. Mr. Markovic, I gave my word to Zarko Obradovic, that we only respect it. I have Zarko Obradovic on the list, so Momir Markovic.
