ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13388	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on foreign affairs, with a correction. Article 1 is amended and it reads: "The ministry is implementing a defined foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia and is performing the following tasks under its jurisdiction". So this is about finding out what the primary and elemental role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, and it is to implement a defined foreign policy, which is also highlighted in Article 2. The Committee, when considering this amendment, was not corrected, so it was unnecessary to discuss and this, in fact, is, in the opinion of the SPS, improving position 1 in the sense that it absolutely defines what is the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it executes a defined policy, because it is a resolute ministry, and that it performs the following tasks, which has been identified, or listed in all 27 points. During the principle debate, I would take the opportunity just to say a few more words about the fact that, in fact, at the beginning of this law, whether in Article 2 or in one of these members, I should start from both finding and listing the basic principles of foreign policy, on which our policy is based in general and especially foreign policy, and what is usually about what is happening to us and what is the problem with international relations when it comes to, say, Kosovo and Metohija or other problems that arise in our relations. It's like that. be desirable, and probably useful, for these principles of foreign policy to be found in a member as the basis and basis of policymaking, which is in fact very often and daily repeated by our officials in these international relations, in the Security Council and in bilateral relations with other countries, or their officials. So, according to the Socialists, it should have been of these principles, let's say that Serbia is leading a peaceful neighbouring policy and equal international co-operation based on the reciprocity and non-mixing and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state. Then to advocate the democratisation of international relations, to strengthen the role of the United Nations and to fully respect the principles of the United Nations Charter, the Paris Charter, the OSCE Final Document from Helsinki and the Security Council Convention. Let us also say that the Republic of Serbia is committed to peaceful dispute resolution and that it opposes force politics. So these principles represent a framework for strategy and foreign affairs, and they are constantly mentioned, and that is what foreign policy is about. Since this is about the law on foreign affairs, surely these principles would have strengthened this law and would have a much higher dose of seriousness and importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13389	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13390	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am sorry that we came to this information only during the weekend, that we did not have it at the time when Mr Dragan Sutanovac was here, because what I want to say to the MPs, and above all to the public, or to the citizens of Serbia, refers directly to Mr Dragan Sutanovac. We are confidently aware that the Ministry of Defence has hired five buses from a private company to transport soldiers from Topcider's military post office tonight to the Miroslav Ilic concert. For a stenogram, I would like to specifically ask Minister Dragan Sutanovac. First of all, how much of the Department of Defense has allocated funds to hire these buses? Secondly, were the tickets for all those soldiers, who would come to those buses, bought or donated? If they're bought, how much of the Ministry of Defense's funds were allocated on behalf of those tickets? What is the interest of the Serbian Army, which is the interest of the Serbian citizens to spend their resources in such a arrogant way? Whether this singer can or can't fill the arena tonight, that's not the problem of the National Assembly or the Ministry of Defense. It is obvious that Mr. Sutanovac has misused his function. So I'm not asking him if he hired buses, because we know for sure he did, but I'm asking him: how much money did he allocate to buses, so five luxury buses from a private company, and how much money was allocated to those tickets if they weren't donated? Please, Mr. Parliament, as soon as possible deliver this issue to Minister Sutanovac and, as soon as possible, the National Assembly and the public of Serbia will get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13391	Is anyone else answering for an article? 225 and 226, so we can continue to work on the amendments? Here you go, Zvonko Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, I am reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I want the public and this high house to inform me that today is the International Day for the Protection of Human Rights. And here's how democratic coalition leaders treat the state of human rights in Serbia. The state of human rights in our country is, according to the Human and Minority Rights Service Director Petar Ladjevic's assessment, at a satisfactory level. Indeed, to say the least, shamefully. At the beginning of the 21st century, the most endangered rights in the Balkans, in Europe and in the world are the rights of Serbs in the KIM area. On today, Serbs from KIM have no security, no right to freedom of movement, no right to property, no right to work, no right to education, no health care, no right to hire eight generations of high school students and as many generations of students, no right to return. In eight years, the democratic coalition and the international community have not returned even 1% of the exiled and displaced people from the area of KIM, Serbs and other non-Albanian living. The right to discover the fate of the kidnapped and missing, for many families have lost their loved ones and loved ones. I ask the international community what it will do today if it is known that, due to the alleged threat of Albanians and their human rights, humanitarian disaster and staged Racak have been declared to eventually be a bombed state of Serbia. Who are they going to bomb now? One of the basic human rights, the right to electricity. That's why I called to ask the Ministry of Energy and the EPS about the supply of electricity. Dr. Zarko Obradović and I visited the Pomoravski region, where 45,000 Serbs live, during the weekend, more precisely on Saturday, and we saw the disastrous state of life of Serbs in the area of KIM. Gentlemen of the Democratic Coalition, are these your action plans? The people ask and invite you to be their guests, to be our guests in the KIM area, with children and with family, for a week, for 10 days, to really make sure, because what we are looking for and what we are talking about is the conversation of the deaf. What does it mean that even after eight years of international community, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the EPS did not provide a basic elemental right to electricity, that people today in the 21st century have no electricity for four days, as was the case in the Serb enclave of Berivojce in Kosovo Kamenica? (President: Time. ) What does 3+3, 3 hours mean, 3 hours is gone, and some enclaves after, when the restrictions last, the second day has no electricity at all. How long will the Serbs at KIM live in the dark? I ask: what have the Ministry of Energy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EPS done, what are they doing and what are they going to do? Let me remind you, after the bombing of the Serbian state, we provided electricity, all the population in Serbia and Kosovo had electricity. Large systems, electricity consumers such as Trepca, Feronikl, Gjilan battery factory, radiators, Amortizers, Kosovo - do not work, do not work, and the international community and EPS are unable to provide electricity. I ask the Ministry of Energy: how long will the Serbs live in the dark? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13393	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? If not, we'll proceed with the amendments. Does anyone else report for Mr. Mihajlovic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13394	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to justify the reasons for the refusal of this amendment, the Proposer is calling for Article 123. The Constitution. But it is not provided in this particular article, in any of the six views, that the foreign ministry represents, with the president of the Republic, the state of Serbia. On the other hand, Article 112(1). The Serbian Constitution reads, "The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad." So, exactly the solution defined by the Ministry in Article 5. The bill does not have a foothold in the Serbian Constitution. This is the basic meaning of this amendment and it is therefore strange that the legislator does not respond to this remark, which was also the main reason for the amendment. On the contrary, the draft law outside the context only commented on the second part of the amendment, although the purpose of this part was to point to unnecessary copying of constitutional norms. It is also clear that the general purpose of the law is to develop constitutional norms, not to prescribe them. It is also clear that the purpose of the law cannot be to invent something that is not in the Constitution even in signs. In this context, it should be pointed out that Article 5. The bill has 27 bets. Apparently, she was the law's proposer to handle the affairs of the foreign ministry in detail. There is no dilemma that this is a good way to increase the efficiency of the ministry's work, but this principle should be applied primarily in practice. For example, in view of the 12th member, the ministry is predicted to "analyze and predict the development of global relations and phenomena, especially in the area of foreign policy. ''It is then noted that special attention will be paid to global relations and phenomena that are important for the international position of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, although I listened carefully to Mr Jeremic's exposure, I did not hear him mention an analysis of the impact of other world crises on the Kosovo problem. Also, I have never read a statement by the minister that even though such analyses are mentioned, for example, about the impact of the Middle Eastern crisis on resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. This is especially strange because this connection has been openly analysed in the international public for a long time. For example, on 2 May 2000, Vice-President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly Willi Vimer sent a letter to Gerhard Shredder to analyse the link between the Middle East and Balkan crises. This Vimer connection analysis is no secret. It's even published in our media. So my remarks are purely well-intentioned and I sincerely hope that this is not about the unconscious work of the Ministry, but that there are such serious analyses. That this link analysis of the two crises is based on serious arguments and that it is necessary for the ministry to work, the following facts also show. The deadline for the creation of a Palestinian state, as agreed by Oslo, coincided with the aggression at the SRJ in 1998 and 1999. The so-called 2002 road map, which envisions the creation of a Palestinian state, appeared at a time when Kosovo and Metohija's status was raised again. Strangely enough, if it is known that this status has already been determined by Resolution 1244. Also, according to an Annapolis agreement, an agreement on the formation of a Palestinian state is to be reached in 2008. At the same time, the unilateral declaration of independence of the so-called “independence” is again announced. Kosovo. In a similar context, even American politicians and diplomats declare this connection. Of course, they are pathetically groping the role of Washington, but they do not deny the link between the situation in the Balkans and those in the Middle East. For example, in this context, Congressman Tom Lantosh made a statement to the Foreign Affairs Committee in 2007. A similar statement was made by Nicholas Burns this year. Article 5 point 18 of the bill states that the Ministry informs the governments of other states and the international public about the politics of the Republic of Serbia, as well as that it is working to promote the government's political stances to strengthen the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in international relations. Of course, informing other governments about the politics of the Republic of Serbia is necessary. That's why embassies, consulates and official visits are used. On the other hand, it is unclear on the basis of which criteria the ministry will determine which side of the public will give priority to the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, is it going to be done over the so-called so-called. The pi-ar agency? In this context, did the Ministry do a serious analysis of the results so far in this area, especially in relation to the so-called lobbying in the U.S.? For example, our country was lobbying in Washington as much as six pi-ar agencies in 2005. The government officially hired a lobbyist firm, whose president is former US ambassador; in 2001, even the former Canadian prime minister was hired; so-called. Serbian coconut. So the following questions are asked: What are the concrete results achieved in this area, specifically, did Washington change its policy towards Kosovo and Metohija? Also, whether the competent authorities in our ministry have taken into account the long-term results of other lobbies, e.g. The Greek lobby that, according to Kissinger and Bezinski, is among the first three in influence in America? More specifically, whether it is necessary to ignore the fact that this lobby is 33 years old cannot change Washington's policy regarding the Cyprus crisis. Or should we ignore the fact that Russia just vetoed the Security Council in 2004? It then blocked an American-British plan that was unfavourable for Greek Cypriots. In that sense, does lobbying in America make any sense at all or should it turn to other countries? The amendment should also be accepted because any inaccuracies in the law lead to the interference of jurisdiction and of a kind of chaos in foreign policy. Unfortunately, it already exists and makes our negotiating position difficult. For example, Minister Jeremic stated in his statement that there is a government plan to be activated in the event of a unilateral declaration of independence, so-called "independence". Kosovo. It is perfectly understandable that he did not want to give details of the plan at an open session of the congregation. But a senior state official, in an interview published by the weekly "Nin" on 31 April 2007, almost openly hints that he will not resort to a break in diplomatic relations because, according to him, it is a final and serious measure that he rarely resorts to. As if it were not a final and serious measure when one unilaterally recognises Kosovo, despite UN Security Council resolutions 1244, 1160, 1199, 1203, 1239, statements by the March 9th and 25th 1998 Contact Group, the Charter of the United Nations, the KEBS Final Act of 1975, the Bucharest Treaty of 1913, as well as other resolutions and contracts that confirm that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. Thus, it is as if in advance a measure that has the highest value in the sense of deterring those who intend to recognise the so-called so-called opposite and unilaterally. Kosovo. Also, there should be no doubt that this statement was recorded by the increasingly important embassies in Belgrade and forwarded to governments, including those who are considering unilateral recognition. Finally, the reasoning of the law explains the reasons for the formation of the Foreign Political Council. I'm not going into considering the political views of the members of this council. They are known to the public and it is the legitimate right of these people to be directed towards Washington and Brussels, just as it is a legitimate advocate for co-operation with the Russian Federation as the main partner. However, it is inappropriate for the Council to be a man who openly advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It's contrary to the Constitution, and they need to know the Ministry's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13395	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then by Mr Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, let us ask you about the advisers of Vuk Jeremic, you will say: I have nothing to do with it. But since you've accepted to be a government official on this agenda and on the following, we're going to have a lot of awkward questions and we expect answers to all of that. As Mr Mirovic said, who has long followed world diplomacy, especially the attitude of major forces towards Serbia and the Serbian issue since the early 1990s, is interesting to me – in addition to this formula that is better, which he proposed with his amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group – as well as how the rights of our citizens abroad are protected. I will specifically talk about Serbs in the Hague case, for all this time since he was founded and when he exclusively works to judge the Serb people and to condemn Serbs. You know, as well as the general public, the case of many who went there and were kidnapped by the Dossian government and the real question is what is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice, the State Supreme, promised these people when, with or without a bag on their heads, they went there. Not to talk about General Tolimir, because it is a story we have repeated many times and there is no valid response from the authorities of the state, but here, I will start the story because I was encouraged by Mr. General Bozidar Delic, who returned after months and more days from the Hague case, and I will ask a concrete question to you, and you do not have it, how is it possible that in addition to all these traitors in the advisory body mentioned Goran Svilanovic and others, Vojin Dimitrijevic – how is it possible that Serbia's authority continues to have Radoslav Stojanović for the ambassador in the Netherlands? General Delic spent a month there, and later he will likely talk about it when he talks about some amendments, testifying in a process led by the anti-Serbian UN tribunal against the famous General Lazarevic. General Lazarevic, along with the military summit, heroically and heroically defended Serbia, first of all against the Cypriot terrorists who killed everything that was Serbian, and the Serbian military and police, and then heroically defended themselves in the 78-day aggression that NATO led against our people and our country. You see how you play with what's called foreign policy and diplomacy when it comes to vital state and national interests. I have no other word than the monster of Radoslav Stojanovic, he never showed up to say or ask if anyone who is there needed help, on the justice of God, there. Here, our president has been for five years, and tomorrow is his trial, and he's going to be in the parade of the UN tribunal. The president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as a top lawyer and politician, and as a man who has such a team of his associates behind him who helps and prepares his defense, with Mr Krasic, Vukic and Mr Jerkovic still not having the opportunity and will not be sitting in court tomorrow, as such is the decision of the evil UN tribunal. But here's General Lazarevic's case. The man who fought heroically, the man who sacrificed himself, and his military honor advocated the defense of the state and the people. Who can help him? Who are these people who deliver from the state summit all they could give and what has the mark of state secrets – therefore none of the defenders of General Lazarevic could come – the villains in The Hague tribunal. And not just until the start of his trial. You have a case, and Mr Krasic has talked about it quite a bit, and these are all undeclared documents that The Hague Prosecutor's Office has been getting for five years, and there is no President of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, nor Mr. Krasic, nor his other legal advisers, although the trial is already in progress. Then what does the Ministry do? What kind of analysis does he do? Why does such traitors keep on the territory of the state in which the court was established to judge Serbs? Why don't you do those tests? If the Ministry is already dealing with analyses of diplomatic moves done back how many years, where was Goran Svilanovic and what was he doing, in the process of our country's succession, how much damage has the SRJ, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, or Serbia, and what damage do we now suffer? Let's talk about it, Mr. Minister. This is how textbook and booky is easy, you write, everyone knows it, or you copy from these international conventions, Vienna, one, the other, what the Foreign Ministry does. But let's be like serious people, and obviously this isn't a serious state, because that's how he treats his heroes and his heroes, and the people who defend this country's interest and honor, where are those unfortunate people that the state pays? You know what that freak of a man said a few months ago, I don't know if you read all those newspapers, one or the other, Sundays, in this country, Mr. Markovic? He even says he is disgusted that he is going to places where Serbs living in the Netherlands are gathering. What ugly names he called not only the president of our party, but the other Serbs in The Hague tribunal, I can't even say that. It's the worst thing a man can get out of a man's mouth. But do you know what he said? He is disgusted to go to places where Serbian emigrants gather, because they eat and drink there, and because they are sick because they have those tickets they sell to organize these parties. These people are doing it everywhere in the diaspora to have some humanitarian action, or to rebuild or build a Serbian Orthodox church. The job of the Foreign Ministry is a very serious matter for every country. If you continue to do so through such "diplomatics", who are willing to betray their country and their people for small money, we are not well written. It is for us, then, whether the law will look like it or not, but an example that is fresh and today, General Delic has returned to the assembly benches, to experience that he is staying there for a month and is preparing for General Lazarevic's defense, and to frame himself to a famous Serbian general who has given everything to defend his country and people, speaks enough about you who you are and what you are, and how much Serbia is at your heart, and how much you care about both the Serb army and the people at all, and what will happen to us in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13397	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13398	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. You, Mr. Minister, said on December 6th that work on draft national council laws is slow because it is difficult to reconcile the interests of national minorities with the interests of minority parties, alluding, of course, to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. That's your political attitude. It's incorrect, but good. That's what you're right about. However, the same time you said that individual parties, above all SVM, do not want a direct selection of national councils, i.e. to advocate the selection of national councils through the electorate. That, Mr. Minister, is not true and it's not a political position, it's a serious lie. You know that well. Why are you trying to knowingly deceive the public this way, Mr. Minister? In fact, a few months ago, June 24th, you received an SVM delegation. We talked about various topics, including changing the boundaries of the administrative districts. That's what we didn't agree on, of course. However, there was one question that we agreed on, which is, of course, the model of the election of national councils through direct elections, therefore, based on the voter lists. It wasn't that long ago, you'd have to remember. On the other hand, a few weeks ago you formed a task force working on a draft law on national councils. In practice, this task force does not normally work anymore than it does because of the obstruction of the Deputy Director of the Human and Minority Rights Service, but at this point it is a different topic. But, let me remind you, at the first meeting of that working group, you shared one material with the members of that working group and that material contains three existing models of the law, one of which was the text in which I, among other things, took part. This model contains the possibility of selecting national councils through special voter lists. So a whole system of selection of national councils has been developed based on voter lists. You know that well. I ask you, Mr. Minister, why are you trying to deceive the public by claiming such lies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13399	The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13400	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Varga, I have no interest in misleading the public about your attitude. You were at my house on that date when you said, I assume you said that exactly. After your meeting with me, you went to see Mr. Peter Ladjevic, who I see is no good to you now, and to Mr. Kostunica, whom you told, that, behold, it is my fault that there is no law on the national council of the national minorities. So then you and Mr. Petar Lađević agreed very nicely to accept his bill, which provides for an electoral electoral electoral system. Now you're saying that the obstruction of the law is precisely the fault of Petar Ladjevic and now you're saying that you're not really into electrics, but you're about direct direct elections. I am glad that you now have the view that you are for direct elections, and I am even more glad that you have realized that you should not go from one side to the next and seek an ally in accordance with the interests of your party, but that, when it comes to the national council of the national minorities, speak nicely to the Ministry and do the job together. So, if you're up for it, I'm glad, we'll work on it together. I don't know if anyone's obstructing, and I wouldn't charge that Human and Minority Rights Service, I wouldn't accuse them of obstructing anything. It's just that this task force is working, they can't get their attitudes together. I'll wait a while, and if the views don't agree, the ministry will take some steps. Anyway, we're gonna do this law the best way, and I think everyone's gonna be happy. So, I'm glad you changed your mind, but don't accuse me of allegedly wanting to deceive someone when the order of moves was exactly the way I said it was, and when, as until yesterday, you were just backing Peter Ladjevic's bill, which envisioned an electoral electoral system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13401	Here you go, Mr. Varga, then the MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic. I'm asking you to go back to the discussion of the law on foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13402	Mr. Minister, you're telling the truth again. In fact, I'm talking to you, that proposal from the Human and Minority Rights Service came out a lot sooner than we had that meeting, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere in the spring. Since that day, when the proposal came out in public, we have strongly condemned in all our statements those solutions containing the draft law drawn up by the Human and Minority Rights Service. There are MPs who have had the opportunity to listen to our presentations at various meetings, at the coordination of national councils, at various consultations. We were with you with a clear view of the election system, and after we were at Prime Minister Kostunica's meeting, we were not talking about these topics at all, but we were complaining to the prime minister the way you asked yourself about this issue. In fact, at that meeting, you told us that it would be ideal for this legislation on national councils to be passed by the end of 2008, so that there would be some elections somewhere in early 2009, and we told the prime minister and, of course, we are still behind the fact that it is simply unacceptable for us that the term of office has now expired for a year with all national councils and there is no law. So, Mr. Minister, once again I urge you to leave this way of politicizing. You're just telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13403	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary club, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out one roughness of the government's representatives in relation to the motions of these amendments, but the debate that is currently under way also encouraged me to warn about the new cruelty of the government's representatives. So it's really unacceptable to hear from the government's representative, from the government minister, the government's minister, to rebuke the minority representative why he went here and there after the meeting. And yet you boast, Minister, that you have information that a representative of a national minority went to Ladjevic and went to Kostunica. Well, whatever he's gonna do, he's gonna go everywhere and he's gotta go everywhere. It is obvious that representatives of national minorities realized that you no longer have the deed to representatives of national minorities, and they co-operate with whoever wants to help them, who wants to co-operate with them, and not with those who blackmail them. They are mostly "yellow" voters and so, little by little, getting rougher and rougher, you finally came into conflict with representatives of the duchy Hungarians. It's an obvious conflict. But I don't want us to be dragged into that conflict. And here I have a comment on Mr. MP. As long as you talk to someone like this, that's how it's gonna be. You and the Priors accept that DS will do anything democratic, but it won't. Look, we suggest you don't insult the President of the Republic. If the constitution says it represents Serbia in the country and abroad, not to be added to it by the minister, not to be added to it by the ministry. No part of the government can represent Serbia, only the president can. Otherwise, what do we need a president for? When we said they could maintain relations with other countries, or, for example, we could write and conduct politics in relations with other countries, and the minister answers and says: do not use the terms provided in the Constitution. Yes, the Constitution provides for a term -- it represents Serbia. So now we can write to everyone -- it represents Serbia, because that's what the Constitution says. Well, the foreign minister represents Serbia. Then why do we need a directly elected president? The government does not represent Serbia, and you are now allowing the minister to represent Serbia. The government only determines and leads politics, and Serbia's president represents Serbia. So do you. You think you represent all of Serbia, but you do not represent a third of Serbia, and you act as if you represent all of Serbia, you will solve everything. So why don't you solve it? What's a year or two or three or four unsolved? Because it suits you. You started running politics in a row with everyone. As for us, we insist that the government cannot represent Serbia abroad, that the minister cannot represent Serbia. If you think he can do it, that's what an embassy cleaner can do. A stranger to the embassy's door also comes to him, thus representing Serbia in that contact. And the guard, and security represents Serbia. But when you write in law to someone to represent Serbia, you give them huge powers. Under these powers, he can build relations alone with other states. As you do, it's quite obvious. I'm sorry to have to tell you, Minister, this is where the Foreign Minister was supposed to come, because this isn't the law, this isn't the law of a joke, this is a very serious law. I accept that Mr. Markovic can, that's what they've loaded that defense bill on him, that he can defend some laws, because he's also a long-time MP, because he's a good lawyer, but there are laws in which we want to deal with whoever proposed them. We want to show that he tended to propose the law, knowingly toppled one function at the expense of the other, that he was knowingly pushing himself. Look at the laws written by the DS ministers. You can see the Minister's seal in each one. He seeks his own rights, his duties, his privileges. The Force is looking for a minister. What's he doing with it? We have a government. What's the Minister of Foreign Affairs doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13405	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Balint Pastor, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's let all the MPs who want to say something in the Rules of Procedure say, so as not to interrupt the debate on amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Varga has forgotten, apparently, to tell you one fact. The truth is that we were at your place, it seems to me in June, as Mr. Varga stated, but he did not say what was the purpose of our visit and did not explain why we were then with Mr. Prime Minister, which is important to say here because it is obvious that you were offended by the fact that we went to the Prime Minister after the meeting with you. The SVM did not vote for this government, and we made it very clear in May why we did not vote for this government, which is because of this government's programme, but, regardless of the fact, we congratulated all ministers on the election and we asked each minister for a reception to expose the SVM's objectives and to present what we want to do here in the Assembly and what proposals we will have. I must say, Mr. Minister, you were the first of the ministers to see us. We had a very good conversation, where we talked about national councils, and about privatising the media, and about changing the borders of the administrative districts, etc., but in that day there was already an appointment with Mr. Kostunica. I wish, Mr. Minister, that you would understand that we didn't go to the Prime Minister to sue you there, we didn't go to the Prime Minister to tell us what you told us and that we disagreed with your grades, but that day was an appointment with you and a meeting with Mr. Kostunica. After a few days, we were admitted to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, only in these ministries did they want to talk to the MPs and representatives of the SVM, but, I say, you were the first to see us. It was a very nice gesture and so should every minister in the government. Unfortunately, it's not. So it wasn't the purpose of a visit to Kostunica to sue you there. Of course we didn't agree with you when you said you advocated that the national council law was passed only at the end of 2008. I suggest you propose this law, so you will see what the SVM's position is and you will see that we are in favour of direct elections, and Mr Brodjevic's proposal does not agree on three reasons: firstly, this bill does not provide for specific jurisdiction, secondly, does not foresee direct elections, and thirdly, does not provide guarantees for funding of national councils. So, I suggest, Mr. Minister, that the sooner the government proposes that law, the sooner you explain that law. You will see the position of the SVM and you will see that there is no difference between you and the SVM MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13407	Here you go, Mr. Minister, so let's really finish this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13408	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm really going to be brief and I don't think there's any more reason for this discussion. Let's end this by saying there's obviously some kind of misunderstanding, maybe bad information or bad coordination. I don't think you're malice, but I really assure you that I didn't want to deceive anyone in any way. Maybe it was better if we had better communication, so it wouldn't have come to what happened. But one thing's for sure, I never said the end of 2008, the beginning of 2009. I didn't make any plans at the Ministry for the end of 2008. I said it would be ideal if it was the end of 2007, and the beginning of 2008. I'm sorry if you misunderstood me. It's impossible for me to say that, for the simple reason that the only thing we've planned for 2008 is the law on general administrative procedure, the law on administrative disputes, the law on political parties and some other things that do not concern national minorities. In any case, I assure you, if there is no movement in the next 15 days, very serious, concrete shifts – Mr Laslo Varga was at the first working group meeting, I think he can confirm that the task force is top-of-the-line, if you have any objections, I will take that remark too, I will change the working group – if within 15 days there are no concrete moves to draft the law, I promise you, I will call for a working group meeting, I will seek or change the work method, or we will change the working group. The law will, in my opinion, be in the National Assembly before spring, and we can finish the whole job in March, possibly April, and have elections by the end of spring this year. That was my plan back then, that's my plan now. I'm sorry there's been a misunderstanding. The second thing we should work on together is the issue of media reporting in the languages of national minorities. That's where we're going. Your idea, which is at the same time the idea of the Region Council of Vojvodina, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, is your idea, and I am not slowing it down, which is either to suspend privatisation, or there is one much better idea and I will present it to you probably in a few days. This is the idea that the law on local self-government provides for the right of municipalities, in which members of national minorities live and in which the language of national minorities is in official use, to be able to establish electronic media for reporting and in the languages of national minorities. I think that's a much better idea. Independently, my ministry prepared information with a proposal for conclusions, which goes to the government on Thursday, seeking to stop media privatisation in the languages of national minorities. That's what we can do together. The third thing, which we agreed on and behind, is guaranteeing, not volunteering in the government, how much national councils will get money, but guaranteed pre-arranged income criteria for national minority councils. I think this concludes our discussion, wait until we give the task force another 15 days. If nothing concrete happens in these 15 days, I suggest you, Mr. Pastor, as head of the parliamentary group, and I sit down and talk about it. I have no intention of confrontation on this matter, because I have no interest in it, nor the DS has any interest in confrontation on any issue relating to the protection of the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13409	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Srdjan Sajn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13410	Article 6 The bill, which apparently was written by the minister from the DS, to complete his foreign state representation function, and that function is only the President of the Republic, because our foreign minister does not realise that he represents and presents the views established by the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia, and he is not the creator of any foreign policy in his own way, e, to complete that function, he came to realize that this text of Article 6. The title is Council bodies. He says: "In order to formulate professional and versatile the proposal for a foreign policy strategy... '". There is no such thing as a set of words in this bill. '"... and improving the overall activities of the Ministry, the foreign minister can establish advisory bodies, composed of prominent experts from relevant areas, whose engagement in advisory bodies would be of honour." What's the point? The point is, the minister has a nice body to reach out to where they're supposed to be experts. I don't know what Goran Svilanovic would be, for which expert. Can anyone say what the expert Goran Svilanovic is for? What's the expert on Rade Stojanovic? The Wolf Jeremic can also put Natasha Kandic on it. Why? And she's an expert, she's finished sociology, she's got some class at Carla del Ponte, and she's representing the damage to the courts. So, for nothing, Markovic that you're a lawyer, you couldn't represent yourself in court, but Natasa Kandic can. It also represents the Plastic Jesus and represents all the sacrifices of this world. What is the criterion on which the minister will choose this advisory body? Let's say, he can, by this here, take Zivorad Kovacevic. If you don't know who that is, it's this little uncle with a backpack walking through the pioneer park. What's he an expert for? I don't know if he was a mathematician, a physicist, anything from a technical profession. He was once an ambassador to the United States, so communists at Micunov and Slob's side were torn apart, and he misdetermined himself. Or that rancher, that Svetozar Stojanović, etc. What are they experts for? I know that Rancic is an expert on the column, and he's an expert on always drawing to where some authority is. They're career diplomats and career experts. Not to tell you who's showing up, as we have these, the result of some political perversion, under my name and last name -- political analyst. Why is he a political analyst? He says, by researching public opinion, we've found - and then he's reporting some data. It has nothing to do with life. Now let me get back to this article. We are primarily against such members, not only in this law, but in all the laws where the aim of this standard is to make something that is advisory, to rise to the level of the institution, and to represent volunteerism. That's how you can get that Minichka, that Jell-O, that one, whose dad nobody can mention. You can also go to Xenia Milivojevic. There's a fluid that's been going on since 2000. Everything that was supposed to be some intelligence, which wasn't much in the parties, but the free shooters, since 2001, have become the first fighters and they're irreplaceable. They need to find a catch, so they're in the European Movement, in the Atlantic Alliance, in some other NGO, in the Resistance. Because those from abroad, who gave money to form like this, at the time the opposition, said, "Now you're the government, we can't separate the money anymore, we can't break our regulations anymore, and we can charge our taxpayers, now you're the government, you get yourself." In that "get yourself", they interpreted that now that everything is broken, the time: Resistance in the DS, we have a deputy secretary, we have one here in the parliamentary group, we have one in the ministries; so you remember Ksenija Milivojevic flees from the G17 and goes away to be the secretary of the European Movement and is now fostered somewhere in some state service. Now the state is funding those who have proven themselves working against the people and the state. There's another advisory body here. Of course, they will make sure that all the views, and the Contact Group, and the International Crisis Group, and the Bildeberg Group and all possible groups that are kind of asking or creating a policy are represented in this advisory body. Then there's the big thinking. When I hear that Dusan Janjic, I change the channel immediately. He always knows in advance what's gonna happen. He has such a good source of information, because he doesn't represent his opinions or anyone else's opinions, but he always does. This advisory body should be a set of those who allegedly help... see what they said: in formulating the proposal for a foreign policy strategy. And the strategy of foreign policy, if there's any concept, I'm saying it exists, it's in the government's jurisdiction. In previous Article 5, you gave complete what could be the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's no strategy anywhere. There's a strategy to develop foreign policy, at point 16, but there's nothing like this formulating something that would be a global strategy for foreign policy. It's in the government's jurisdiction. In general, this bill does not make the necessary and fine distinction, what is in the foreign policy jurisdiction of the president, what is the authority of the government that creates and leads, and what is the responsibility of the ministry. Here you have, simply, one galamatias and a general mess. Someone rightly said earlier that the minister of this law is struggling to be the one to represent, and only the President of the Republic can do that. And the President of the Republic, when representing a country abroad, must do so in accordance with the defined foreign policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's got to be a platform, there's got to be some starting point - theoretically. Practically, it's "who in a cuneiform in a record." There is little about this issue of Kosovo and the Metohija some agreement, but from time to time different tones are heard. They are now not as drastic as they were a few years ago, when the government called for no vote, the National Assembly passed a resolution, it did not pose any interference to the President of the Republic to say: I call on citizens to go to vote in these occupation elections. It came out 0.16%, I think. The result was the waiter minister. Of course, Ivanovic that Oliver, and during the SPS, DSS, DS, he's always there, and Covica you know, he's everywhere. We've got these professionals holding the deed for everyone without drawing legitimacy. Someone may like, I don't know, the left or right side of this assembly, but here are all the people with the legitimacy, and in foreign policy we get people who don't have any legitimacy. The legitimacy of Živorad Kovacevic - an old man put up a backpack and walked through the pioneer park, as if mountaineering. That's right. Someone's got a life-long deed to deal with foreign policy. Jelica Miniæ, her dad was a minister, so now she is. Dad was also a prosecutor when the trial was held by Draži Mihailovic. You can't say that because she told you not to. The other day he wanted to kill me, I see Gash Knezevic here. Jesus Christ, instead of a man being in jail, he's in the Ministry. The man who implements the draft law that has not yet been written and writes it in his solution and his decision - I have applied the draft law that has not yet entered into force, because it has neither been published nor been passed, etc. And that's the professor of law school! And he needs to teach this physicist right. It's not Milan, it's the real minister. Bruca and shame. Now someone here is telling us: you know, we're Democrats, we're intellectual potential, the intellectual flower of this people. What a flower of the people. You can't add people to boards. Our amendment is to delete this member. Why? For one simple reason – if we can't stop this honorable foreign policy that you're leading... I forgot some papers, to say who you chose as the honorary consul in Macedonia. Bruca and shame. I have a name and a last name, but I forgot. I get a lot of things, so I forget. I've got a little more time. Mr. President, in order not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, since I see that you are extremely nervous when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to use this time a little bit to indicate that she was my discussion a few days ago. About those tenders, you know, what they were fighting about, so they wanted to fight Sutanovac and Petrovic. Tadic is now involved. Tadic, about, is like St. Sava in DS. This is how he used his post as top lawless commander and made a commission, ordered a commission, there are Generals Samardzic and Vukbratovic, that is yours, Milane, this Vukbratovic, and Colonel Jovanovic. They were assigned to review the commission's work with those tenders and to report that everything is fine. It's gonna end today. They work under the obligation, you know. It's got to be today. The commission member is Tadic's General Vukbratovic. Look, you've already started. However, you have your generals long ago, Chief of Telecommunications. By the way, I've got a lot of paperwork left at home for Tadic when he was Minister of Telecommunications, and for Faith, and for this, and for that, I can't remember everything anymore. Wherever a man turns, there's something going on. But wherever a man... You touch your hand like this. There's some paperwork coming out right now. On this side, you touch and people come up and say, "Here's your paperwork to see how they pull." Where are they pulling? Where they come from. Toss on the floor in the Federal Assembly, and on the molarium, and on the painting, and on that fund, not to tell you, it's an old story, Mr. Micunović knows it very well. He says, to finish the dirty work, he began to moot when he and Filipovic insisted on some weighting. You see, they were in math, whether it was 90 plus 10 hundred or 110 points. It turned out to be 90 plus 10 another 110 points, so they split into two lotes, that both interest blocks settle down, because it's a long-term business of about four billion dinars. Now you translate it into those other things. So it wasn't her criticism for no reason. But it's okay, the paperwork's staying, everything's going to be beautifully recorded. I call on you to vote in voting day for this amendment to the SRS because this article 6 does not need to be in this law. There is no need to build a new institution, although it is called an advisory body, but it is certainly an institution as soon as it enters the legal norm. I didn't want to comment on the government's response to this amendment. They don't even notice the intensity of the amendments, but they say -- it's necessary to prescribe qualifications, and you've prescribed qualifications as respectable and professional. Tell me, what is your advantage: integrity or expertise? No matter what you give as an advantage, tell me what your reputation and expertise is, when it comes to Zivorad Kovacevic, Goran Svilanovic, perhaps Sonja Licht, you put it there. It would not surprise me either, and I strongly recommend you put Natasa Kandic on, as she has long been the commander of the parade in Serbia, because she must not be looked down, let alone stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13411	Is anyone else answering this amendment? There's 20 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the president of the National Assembly is in a hurry, and the ruling coalition, but that doesn't concern us very much in the SRS, nor are we concerned about that. We want to use our time to discuss the amendments. The amendment by MP Zoran Krasic was required by the government because his argument was absolutely in place. In fact, Article 6 really doesn't belong in the law on foreign affairs. This matter is regulated by one sublaw of the government. It is a regulation on the principles for the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in ministries, special organisations and government services. I would like to inform the members of the Government that this regulation has recently been published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Let them read the regulation a little bit, and they will see that the interior organisation in the ministries is regulated by the Underlaw Act of Government, to regulate the issue of advisory bodies, working groups, project centres, etc. and that it's really funny to put a provision into the law on foreign affairs on some councilors of ministers. And the government's explanation for why it does not accept the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic is really funny. It says - the amendment proposed by that amendment is unacceptable since the provision is necessary to establish expertise as a criterion for selecting the Council and their status which has a character of honorary function. Mr. Zoran Krasic did not propose that the member be changed, but that the member should be deleted because he does not belong in the law on foreign affairs. Here, the minister isn't here, but even if he were here, he probably wouldn't be able to answer because he didn't write the bill, and these gentlemen sitting next to him are probably not authorized to discuss it. And you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, don't be nervous, let the MPs do their job, and don't let you determine when anyone will answer the word of the Rules of Procedure. Leave it to the MPs for their freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13413	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13414	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought, together with my fellow SPS colleagues, on behalf of whom I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, that the solution I offer is better. Namely, the type of diplomatic and consular representations, Article 7: ''The diplomatic and consular representations are permanent diplomatic missions and consular representations. Permanent diplomatic missions are embassies, established in other countries, and permanent missions, set up by international organisations. Consular representations may be established in the rank of general consulates, consulates, vice-consularates and consular agencies, depending on the scale of bilateral relations, the extent of economic co-operation and the number of diaspora'. I suggested that Article 7 paragraph 3 of the word "viceconsularate and consular agencies" be deleted. Let me say why I think it should be done. First, there is no place in the law for the last part of this sentence - depending on the extent of bilateral relations, the extent of economic co-operation and the number of diaspora. This isn't the place. This can be written in the light of the law, because this doesn't mean anything here. If this is now analytically dismembered, so to speak -- if there are 50,000 Serbian citizens in a country, there will be a consulate, if there are 200,000, there will be a general consulate. I'm talking about making examples. Now, this sentence in this text doesn't mean anything. It's just like saying, depending on the color of the eyes of those who live there or the kind of music they listen to. This doesn't mean anything in the law. We are a small country, and we find it hard to raise funds for diplomacy, but it's better if we already have diplomatic representations, they're up to the level of the consulate. No matter how poor we are, I think this should end where the General Consulates and Consulates are written, and that it erases what is referred to by the Viceconsularates and consular agencies. There's a different opinion for that. You wrote it in the law because you thought it was the right thing to do, but on behalf of the SPS, I made an amendment because what I'm saying is understandable to everyone. So there are people who aren't doing well. There's no one abroad who hasn't heard what the consulate is, but someone who has some great need to solve some personal problem in his diplomatic representation, is hardly going to understand, when they tell him there's a diplomatic and consular agency, what he needs to do there. Now that I'm here, I'm taking the opportunity to inform you, Mr. President, and you, Mr. President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Professor Micunovic, and you, gentlemen of the Ministry. I am interested in whether there is an orderly protocol when MPs in any job, in any job, and if they are members of a parliamentary delegation, and if they are members of a state delegation, and if they are members of other delegations as they otherwise travel and are drawn up from the order of Members of Parliament, does someone have a protocol obligation to inform our DKP that in one capital city of one European state there are seven or 10 MPs for 10 days, and that they are not in a position to drink coffee in their embassy or their consulate. I think it is not normal and it is not normal for our diplomats to do nothing about it, because we have recently had the opportunity to see in Prague that members of all other delegations, and there have been from several countries, are mostly from Southeast Europe, or from BiH, from Macedonia, Montenegro, have daily contact with their ambassador. And we're not even in a position to get them on the phone. It's inadmissible for me. I'd like that thing to be arranged with one protocol, to be a special topic at the Committee on Foreign Affairs session, and I'd like to know what's wrong with that. So, I don't think we have the kind of freedom and como that we can do this the same policy. When we go abroad, whether we are government or opposition, we in a way that corresponds to the interests of this country and this people represent the interests of this country and this people there. It would be normal for someone who's there or who's lower than the ambassador to have contact with us, to give us basic information about the country we came to and it wouldn't be a bad idea to get that information sometimes before we travel to the country we travel to. I don't travel often, but there are colleagues who are once a week abroad, and it's perfectly normal for this country's foreign policy to be brought together from one place and run in a way that best fits the interests of our country and our citizens. This is what I needed to say, not to report to the Rules of Procedure. I have long been scolded by this behavior, because I think it is not normal and I think these people are not private there, and I think there must be a protocol here that will coordinate and inform diplomatic and consular representations that there are two, five, eleven MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in some country. Otherwise, disband the congregation, otherwise we don't need it for anything. Recently, I had no chance to inform our ambassador about the official protest I did because where I was, there was no flag only of our country and there was a flag of all other states. So these are serious questions and I ask that we take these questions seriously. This is not for this occasion, but it is for the Committee's session and it is to get the final answer in which the MPs travel and how they communicate at all. And if you say we shouldn't, then let's know. I don't think anyone's gonna say they shouldn't. And the other day, I think Mrs. Kolundjia, if I remember correctly, spoke on a similar subject. (Hope Kolundji, from the post: the Committee has tabled an amendment that the government has accepted. I thank you then. I'm sorry, I didn't know the government had accepted that amendment. Then what I'm saying also made sense. So it's very important that we know what we're doing there when we're going and every serious state is doing it. As far as this amendment is concerned, please accept it, and if you can't, I'd like to get an explanation, because what I've got for me doesn't give a clear argument. So our point of view, the SPS's view is that the state should have, as its external diplomatic consular representation, at least a consulate, and that this is the end, not to make experiments. Otherwise, as far as the diaspora count is concerned, it's no criterion. Does this mean that in those countries where we don't have a diaspora at all, and there are such countries, we shouldn't have an ambassador or a consul? That doesn't mean that. So we have some others, economics and others, not to list them, interests that come true through these... In the end, I have one more question. I saw in the 2008 draft budget that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is planning to send 32 people, new tenants, to the diplomatic service. I'm very interested in how it's arranged. So, do our diplomatic and consular representations have a single policy or does every minister run foreign policy, military through military attachés, for economics and regional development through their representatives, for culture through cultural attachés? What unites that policy, who is that amalgam that solves how they all behave there? So that's what we'll talk about when there's a budget. I wonder if the Foreign Office is familiar with that. It says in the budget that 32 people from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will be employed in 2008 at diplomatic and consular offices. I'm looking for an answer to that question. It's important to me for other reasons, and we'll talk about it when it's budgeted. Since there is no Mr Markovic, you others do not have the right to plead, I ask you to accept the amendment to article 7, which is not just technical character, it contains what I tried to explain here. I think the state should have the least consulate, that's my position, that's the SPS's position, that we would seriously act where we send diplomatic and consular representatives, and that they could be in the best interest of representing our country, because I assume that the level of authority of these in lower representations is lower, and then it brings our diplomacy down to technical service, which we certainly don't want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13415	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13416	I assume Minister Markovic is absent because he is preparing for the budget law. He and that law will probably be present to us here, since no one from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has any intention and it's so obvious. Especially when it comes to ministers from the DS. They don't want to participate in the work, they don't care what the MPs say, they make their way. And that's why I find it rather pointless to discuss amendments to this law when we have a minister, when there's a minister in the hall who may have a good will, but only as we MPs can discuss this law, but he can't, on behalf of the Government, explain something further to us, which is why some amendment has been rejected, nor can he accept any amendment on behalf of the Government. Technically, he can, but I guess he's a responsible man enough not to get involved in a job that's not in his jurisdiction. When it comes to the law on foreign affairs, we also said in principle that this is a rather problematic law and from the aspect of the title itself because, in fact, this law does not regulate foreign policy. We continue, and when you adopt this law, we are not properly regulated, nor clearly defined foreign policy of Serbia, because what is provided for in the draft of this law is about a little expanded systematization of the foreign ministry. Most of the talk here is about the function of the service, about who's all busy in those services, how the resolutions are shared, and at least what's actually supposed to be contained in this law. More than two-thirds of what is in the bill should be contained in the sublegal act, it should be governed by the ministry, and the Serbian Parliament, on a proposal from the government, to regulate Serbia's foreign policy. The amendment to Article 18, which I have submitted, refers to the duties of the head of a permanent diplomatic mission. The proposal for Article 18 provides for the head of a permanent diplomatic mission to perform duties in accordance with international conventions on diplomatic relations and on the representation of states in relations with international organisations and, in particular, it is then listed as representing the Republic of Serbia in a foreign country, sign diplomatic instruments and transfers and represent the government's views. The amendment is to convey and represent the views of the President of the Republic, including the views of the Government, although I will explain the jurisdiction a little later and read from the Constitution of jurisdiction and the Government and the President of the Republic so that the public understands how completely wrongly this law is and how fundamentally not in accordance with the Constitution. Not every single member, but essentially, this whole law is completely contrary to the Constitution. But, of course, we still have a problem with the Constitutional Court, and we'll probably have it until the DS ministers act to pass laws that matter to them. That's why the President of Parliament hastens us and warns us: let's let everyone who has the Rules of Procedure come forward, and then we'll follow the amendments. It is as if working on the Rules of Procedure is not the work of Parliament, and as if someone could manage the MPs, in the sense that he would say to them: three, four, now – we go to the Rules of Procedure, and then we interrupt. No, but we're going to do what we think we should do and when we have to report to the Rules of Procedure, when we have to report to the amendments, it's absolutely the right and obligation of every MP. The position of the 2nd member states that the head of a permanent diplomatic mission for his work corresponds, you wrote - the Minister, the Government and the President of the Republic. Don't you think this building is a little raving? Minister, Government and President of the Republic. Isn't it more correct and logical - to the President of the Republic, the Government and the Minister? It is not in the spirit of our legal system, it is not logical to place a minister in any order, so the Government, then the President of the Republic. The government has not accepted this amendment. They say the amendment proposed by that amendment is unacceptable. Given that he is, in his essence, responding to the solution set out in the bill... If, by its essence, it corresponds to the draft law, how and why is it unacceptable? This is a completely illogical explanation. He continues to say - and especially because the solution to the bill in a more adequate manner regulates the issue of responsibility of the head of a permanent diplomatic mission in relation to the position and competence of the authorities, or persons to whom his responsibility is established. I read the bill on purpose. Who could have noticed that the bill was more appropriate to regulate the responsibility of the head of a permanent mission because he was the first to answer to the minister, so to the Government, then to the President of the Republic? I don't know what term to use, this is by who knows which way to underestimate the intelligence of the MPs, parliament, citizens of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia better not give us any answers. They also realized that the President of Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia would not discuss the amendments if we do not have the government's opinion and that is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Then what's going on? Then there's some employee at the D.O.D. to say, "Here's these amendments, answer anything, write one sentence, just so those MPs there are satisfied, that they don't call us after the Rules of Procedure, so that we can finish what we've drawn up at some point." This is irresponsible and irresponsible. I take it that you who are present at the Foreign Ministry have not written such irresponsible and unbulful reasoning, that someone else wrote it. If it is, then you're doing this job badly. Did these special assistants from the team of Minister Vuk Jeremic participate in the responses of the Government of Serbia? And that's possible. This is something that that drunk Radoslav Stojanovic and that drunk Gašo Knezevic and that traitor Goran Svilanovic can write. So people like that can be expected to do anything. I remind you that Gašo Knezevic, at the time he was a minister, said that he was applying the bill, truth be told, that law has not yet been passed and has not yet come into force, but it is good so it can be applied. It's no wonder we have this kind of explanation. Why did we insist on the President of the Republic in this law, and in several amendments, we proposed that the President of the Republic be in the text of the law? Because it is the responsibility of the President of the Republic. You are here and where you should and where you shouldn't push the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I guess because we have a minister of foreign affairs walking around the white world, he says about what he thinks, so we remember that he's almost brought up some attitude when it comes to KIM, that Serbia will be broad-minded. She never explained it to us, nor to the citizens of Serbia, what she implies, especially how he is allowed to speak up in some official talks. The authority of the Government shall be governed by Articles 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This article says that the Government determines and conducts policy, implements laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, adopts regulations and other general acts to enforce the law, proposes laws and other general acts, and gives an opinion on them when they are submitted by another promoter, directs and coordinates the work of the authorities of the state administration and controls their work, performs other tasks of a certain Constitution and law. I ask the MPs here present: does anyone here see the government's jurisdiction in the field of foreign affairs? It is clearly and loudly written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the government cannot and must not do so. On the other hand, in Article 112. The constitution has the authority of the President of the Republic who, under one, represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. This was the basis why we thought it necessary that both in this law and in every member where you put the government should be the President of the Republic. Because all ministers go around the white world, all ministers communicate with representatives of other authorities, but they cannot be said to represent the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reserved only for the President of the Republic. That's why I think it's necessary for the minister to be here. Well, if we had explained this to him so nicely and read it to him, maybe he would have accepted this and the other amendments to the SRS. However, in the absence of the minister, I suggest to you, fellow Members, that you do so in Danuz's vote. Another remark, why the MPs of the SRS have submitted a small number of amendments to this law. In this bill, we have much more objections than we have submitted to the amendment for reasons that it was not possible for us to do all these amendments in a proper and good way, because these four very important laws were given by the deadline for amendments of only 18 hours. So, by Thursday until midnight, the amendments to both the military law and the defence of both foreign affairs and security services were to be completed, and you will allow, these are four so important and important laws that, as much as they are in a hurry to the DS, they were not allowed to be included in the agenda this way and that we were not allowed to explain it in an even better way, that is to try to change this law and, as far as possible, introduce it into what should be the law on external affairs. I repeat, what we're discussing today and what you're going to adopt in a few days, there will be no law on foreign affairs, no matter what it's called. Do not deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because half of this law is special provisions on labour relations in the ministry. So, what does that have to do with foreign affairs? This was supposed to be one sublegal act – the transfer to work, the rights of officials, the resolutions from the position, the special rules of the disciplinary procedure – so we will pass the law to satisfy the form, but essentially, we still, and after this law, we do not have a law on external affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13417	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13418	Dear MPs, I am reporting for an amendment to Article 21, but as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. First of all, I have to point out that one lapus was made in this amendment. Namely, it reads: Article 21, paragraph 1, after the word "consensus", adds the words "President of the Republic and", which should read: Article 21, paragraph 1, the words "consent" are added to the words "and the President of the Republic". Thus, Article 21 should read: The Government, on a proposal from the Minister and President of the Republic, and with the agreement of the State of Reception, can place a face for the Honorary Consul... I hope that in the voting day you will have in mind this lapus which, first of all, is careless when typing is so formalized. So this one word is important, so before saying "consensus" to add the words "and the President of the Republic". Otherwise, discussions on the draft law took place on the Committee for a short period of time because of ministers' diplomatic affairs, more important than these legislations, so the amendment was rejected on the Committee. Otherwise, as my colleague, Veronica Radeta, has said, there are few amendments to such an extremely bad law. The amendments of the SRS to the legislative proposals are not treated with respect to this arrogant, very lazily coalition, which comes confidently, as if it would never come down from power. The law is passed instead of the Law on Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro, which wiped out the institutional basis of the organisation of foreign affairs. Why has the name of the law been deleted from the name of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? It appears that the coalition state of Montenegro, as in many other national legal dilemmas, has imposed the name "on foreign affairs" to Serbia in order to weaken the institutional, i.e. state and confederal community through the name. However, I do not understand who has mastered this current name - the Foreign Affairs Act - which is unfortunately also in the Constitution. There is no respect for the fact that the Foreign Affairs Act is Serbia's first law since 1886, when the last law of the Kingdom of Serbia was passed. I suppose such a law should have been courted, given even a solemn form through a historical preamble that he still deserves. Lawmakers had to have a little more respect for him when they put him together. Why were lawmakers afraid to give him institutional form, so they called it the Foreign Affairs Act, not the Foreign Ministry Act? So already through the name of this law is breaking Serbia's state-level legal tradition, the state institutions are being neglected. This civilization range of the Serbian government will laugh at generations of future theorists, researchers, historians and lawyers when they compare this unfinished law with the laws on foreign affairs ministries, the affairs of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and even those of the SFRY. Prior to gaining full independence, the Principality of Serbia had already established a special, internal department within the Principal's office in 1858, following the introduction into the political life of the National Assembly as a state institution. Later, the office was called the Office of Foreign Affairs. A law on the establishment of a central state administration since 10 March 1862, instead of custodians, the ministry and ministers were introduced, as well as the foreign ministry. This law is the first time an institutionally educated government, i.e. the Council of Ministers. By gaining independence by decision of the Berlin Congress in 1878, Serbia began to work more systematically on the legislative structure of the Foreign Ministry. On January 18, 1879, the Law on diplomatic representations and consulates was passed abroad. The first law, which comprehensively laid down the powers and organisation of the foreign ministry, was the Law establishing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomatic representations and Serbian consulates abroad, which was adopted on November 1st, 1886. The law was valid until Serbia's drowning in the Kingdom of Serbs of Croats and Slovenians. He detailed the jurisdiction of the ministry, but also the organisational structure, which this happy law does not prescribe. The responsibilities of the two departments, the Political and Administrative departments, the jurisdiction of the department within these departments, organisations and the work of diplomatic offices and consulates are very detailed. The law also envisioned the adoption of sublegal acts, rules for operational affairs. A similar national legal tradition was continued in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia when it came to the form of normative acts related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The regulation on the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomatic representations and consulates of the Kingdom of Serbs Croats and Slovenians from 1919 similarly regulated the organisation and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In particular, there was a detailed Law on the arrangement of the MPs and diplomatic consular offices of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia abroad since 25 March 1930. The law had a total of 53 rich members. As with previous laws, it elaborated the responsibility of the minister, the activity and organisation of the ministry, exactly what this current law does not have. At the end of the inter-war period, on 10 August 1939, a regulation was adopted with the legal power of the MIP, diplomatic consular offices of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia abroad. It's divided into four heads, etc. So these are very detailed and systematic laws in relation to this law. In Serbia and Yugoslavia's state legal history, foreign ministers were the best part of the government, usually elected in older years, with great diplomatic experience, such as in the Kingdom of Serbia, custodian Ilija Garasanin, Foreign Minister Jovan Ristic, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Nikola Pasic and Milan Stojadinovic, who at the same time served as chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Government. Today we have a young minister who is very nice, communicative, but without the necessary experience and diplomatic education. However, MP employees are threatened with cancellations because the reasoning of this law requires that special measures be applied to improve diplomatic personnel. In the anti-Serbian Socialist Yugoslavia, the seats of ministers and diplomatic representatives were reserved for non-Serbs and rare regime Serbs. The diplomacy was reserved for an exclusive Roman Catholic bath. The ministers have been working since the formation of the new Socialist Yugoslavia in 1945, but the 20-year law on foreign affairs has not been at all -- very strange. Perhaps the acceleration of the creation of a confederal socialist Yugoslavia in which every republic, a future state, should have its own foreign ministry, as Joseph Broz has wanted to implement since 1945. It was only 11 April 1963 that the SIV Regulation on the organisation and operation of the State Secretariat for Foreign Affairs was adopted, and in July 1971 the State Secretariat was appointed the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs. Since the federal state died and subdued itself according to Kardelj and Broz's ideology, the addition of "state" has disappeared and is now being used by the Alliance – the Federal Secretariat. Perhaps this current name of this unfortunate law suggests the death of the Serbian state, or its state institutions, and these of our social democratic, liberal and socialist political groups are based on such a tradition of self-government socialism. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in front of the SRS, I proposed that the affairs of the Ministry of Labour and the organisation of the Ministry should be comprehensively prescribed by this law. The minister boasted on the board that the law was modern, elegant and short. It is not short compared to previous laws, but the problem is that there are so many irrelevant provisions that could have been transferred to the ministry's sublaw. Let me get this straight. It is unacceptable that there are no provisions in this law on the structure and organisation of the Ministry. It was in all previous laws that such provisions existed. That's why I listed this history, a bright history of the development of the Foreign Ministry. It is scandalous that the basic text of the law is not in line with the reasoning of the law, which clearly states that the Law on Foreign Affairs is governed by the section and organisation of the Ministry. It's as if this law prescribes that the Ministry consists of organisational units. The work of the Ministry has been determined by Article 5. However, the prescribed organisation of the ministry simply does not have it in the law, and in its explanation it does not exist. On the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I suggested, as well as Zoran Krasic, that Article 6 be deleted and members would be inserted instead to regulate such an important organisation of the ministry. Mr. Minister and members of the ruling coalition have not supported my proposal to supplement this incomplete, confusing and unseen law at least with the elemental provisions of the organisation that many laws have across Europe, as well as all previous laws of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the SFRY. History will, however, be tried by one of these supernadal laws through hardworking researchers, scientists, and will be classified in the category of worthless laws. They certainly won't be thrilled with this law. It is even pointed out in the explanation that many so - called so - called so - called laws have worked on this law. Experts, particularly members of the Foreign Policy Council of the MIP and members of the Association for International Law. These facts speak further, so the big team has been working, and the maltenes have no good results. An inaccurate and incomplete law will only serve those who will be able to carry out Serbia's foreign policy freely and illegally, but who lead a "liberal personnel policy of setting up and replacing inadequate diplomatic personnel". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13419	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13420	I think that amendment should be accepted. As a colleague said, the president represents Serbia in an international scene. One more thing that is important, the president who signed the law has confirmed in his opinion whether it is constitutional or not, whether he can sign it or not. I'll give an example of obvious. As you have a member, for example, in a law that is not constitutional or is acting by the Constitution. For example, Article 5 of point 19, which says "in co-operation with the Ministry of Diaspora, improves respect for the human and minority rights of emigrants, persons of Serbian origin and", and this is very important, "Citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad". However, the Constitution explicitly states in Article 13. The Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad. Look, as he says now, he's promoting here, and he's protecting here. In particular, it must, there are no negotiations about it, and here this law does not work. If the president accepts, then there will be no objection on that basis. But if they accept and want you to be so, then the president must apply the Constitution and seek to protect the interests of the citizens of Serbia and their human and procedural rights abroad. And, as you know, until today, it's not a practice. If you want to look at your example, for example the United States, you know that those for example "human rights" did the greatest evil that modern history knows. Let's see, for example, in Afghanistan, Iraq, now they're threatening Iran, even if you remember because of the alleged fence, their students have been aggressive about Granada their time. So, look at the big ones you think are role models, apply the Constitution, give a provision, the president must have the authority, so says the minister: hey, what are you doing, that man of ours shut up there, why didn't you protect him, based on what? But like this, it promotes the human rights, that is, the interests of our citizens - what does that mean? That doesn't have a binding word. I think there is a big difference in the Serbian language between improving and protecting, which is in the Constitution. It's not clear to me, if you didn't want to apply already, to change Article 19's position and to separate it as two members, as we suggested on the board, why don't you give the president his constitutional authority to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13421	The People's Messenger Gojko Radic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13422	Articles 225 and 226. Since we got a letter from the County Prison of Subotica, I'm going to read it, because it's very short, so I don't talk about it at random. ''This complaint is filed because of racial and religious discrimination carried out in the District Prison in Subotica against the believers of Orthodox religion. Reason - we've been informed on Day 7. 12. In 2007, from the educators Jakovljevic Sinish said that the prison administration had decided that believers of the Catholic religion had the right on December 24th, i.e. For a Catholic Christmas, a prize weekend. We have nothing against such a decision. It's okay. We wonder why we Orthodox believers don't have the right to the same hours, rewards, for our Orthodox Christmas." We have a signature down here -- convicts of the Orthodox confession of the County Prison in Subotica, 22. Is it possible that in Subotica, from elementary schools to county prison, everyone, where Orthodox people are, does not have the right to religious holidays, and everyone else does? And when they're Suffocations, i.e. The Day of the Dead, All Saints, Orthodox men have no rights for Christmas, no rights can be used where the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are concerned. Is it possible that ministers in the government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wherever the Serbs are, are trying to threaten and trample their fundamental and human rights? I ask the Minister of Justice to take a stand on this and answer us urgently, before the Orthodox Christmas comes and goes, to make an effort, to order the prison administration, if Catholics have the right to spend the weekend for their Christmas, then let the right allow the Orthodox.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13423	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13424	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for article 136. Rules of Procedure. I think it's a good thing I'm using this right when it comes to a member who regulates the matter of the Reverend Consul. A while ago, I think that a few days ago, Serbia opened a consulate in Bitola and was appointed as an honorary consul, the government appointed Mr. Siljan Mitsevski, former Bitola mayor, otherwise a member of the party, Branko Crvenkovski. In order for the public to know what it is and who this man is, it is as if you chose Jazda or Dafina Milanovic as an honorary consul. This gentleman and his wife were convicted in a similar affair in Macedonia, she has the name TAT, it's again some pyramidal bank. I'm asking these people from the Foreign Office, the foreign affairs department, how does it answer to whom: who did they appoint as the Honorary Consul? Does this mean that this government can take a man out of a state's prison and say, "That's the honorary consul of Serbia?" Or did this Ambassador Zoran Popovic cheat on you, what was it? What are the criteria for someone becoming an honorary consul from Nicaragua, for example? We have this description of what a slow consul of Nicaragua looks like. The Macedonians obviously don't have it, but I'm interested in whether this man who represents us, specifically this or any other to whom you give the status of the honorable consul -- what criteria does he have to meet and what is the connection between his character and his work and the state whose honorary consul he is? Is it because he might be a businessman, because he's the former mayor of Bitola or someone has some private business to do, so he figures he'll get over this faster? A major affair has been raised in Macedonia, people are laughing at Serbia and then our ministry had to intervene and say: but it is not authorized to do diplomatic and consular work. This is potential to say: well, at someone's request from Macedonia, and at the request of some of them from Serbia, we have appointed such a man as an honorary consul, you know, we apologize very much, we apologize very much. But that's what's hitting us. What will these Macedonians think of Serbia? He will wonder what kind of man represents Serbia as an honorary consul. Looks like in that distribution we've been better off with an honorary consul than Nicaragua.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13425	On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13426	Thank you. And with this amendment, we wanted to fix so-called. the law or some other approach to sublegal regulation how to organise the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Our amendment intervention concerns trying to involve the President of the Republic in proposing and making a decision on whether a diplomatic representation will open and close. We don't think the argument the government gave us is quite the drink. A few minutes ago, we heard quotes from the Constitution and we saw that Article 112 paragraph 1 point 5) of the Constitution really decides to set up after receiving the agremants for diplomatic representations for which it is aggregately needed by foreign states, so that, apart from point 1), it is from that same position, which was a crucial reason to submit the amendment, and point 5) one of the reasons that is extremely logical, for the president to be involved. There is indeed an opportunity in which, in the terms of the buffalo government as it is with us, and not only at this moment, although the laws are passed according to the current situation, in which it is already described that the same minister, the same president, things, of course, are uncertain, the elections are ahead of us, perhaps elections and other species, therefore there will be circumstances in which it will be two different camps. It would be very correct, and in some ways both more democratic and practical and pragmatic, that the president, who decides on the placement of people, decides whether or not any kind of DKP is opening or closing, what are these reasons, are sometimes the reasons of some other nature, where the president is powerless to influence, but simply leaves behind the decision of the Minister and Government, which are, as a rule, homogeneous and more compact mass because they are an integral part of one of the same government. Of course, such a proposal can be passed constitutionally, because there is no point that would be explicitly said to be contrary to the Constitution, although the explicit constitution does not entangle and touch this problem, but it does not affect the government's decision to interfere in foreign affairs in this way. We heard from the government's constitutional jurisdiction quote. You can see that it also has a final decision on the appointment of officials and the opening of diplomatic and consular offices. That is why we think that we should leave this possibility to the President, that in some way, the constitutional or this legislative proposed norm, we would not derivate anything, leave such a possibility because of a future time in which the President and the Government will safely or perhaps not be of the same ruling majority, and it is possible that they will have different views. It should therefore give such an opportunity to reach final agreement. Because the consummation of the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its facilities abroad is safe and the President of the Republic and it is impossible for him not to be interested in any representation, as part of his intention to exercise power, to represent a country in the outside, in another world and the environment, whether he has a representativeship or not. Anything is possible in Serbia, even if some significant DKP is shut down, some unnecessary ones open, and the president, for example, has no particular benefit. If he assesses that he may have some benefit somewhere, he will be able, with the agreement of the foreign minister, to propose it, and the government will technically end it, as it stands in the law. I don't think adopting this member would do anything to make the law, as it is further worse, almost impossible, but it would in a certain way explain the position of the President of the Republic and strengthen its position at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13427	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word. Here you go, Mr. Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13428	We believe that this proposal must be accepted, at least in the first stage, because there are no executive political issues, it is strategic issues about foreign affairs. The Ministry knows, the closure of the embassy, it can easily, and the opening, it's very difficult. You can't, based on the political will of a minister or one government, close and open. We have a previous period of many mistakes that have cost Serbia a lot in its foreign policy. It can also be confirmed by the department staff, because until today, there are problems. We view this opening and closing as a strategic goal of foreign policy. I'd like to link this amendment to article 6 that you didn't want to delete, because we believe that the strategy of foreign policy can't set up honorable advice. It must be a national foreign policy council that represents all policy officials in Serbia, not the current government, because the foreign policy strategy, it's not four years, it's not one mandate one government, not two governments, it's a long-term process. What your samples haven't taught you, for example the U.S., the foreign policy strategy makes you a law of probability. How? For example, if we get into such a situation, what kind of solution we have, if we get into the next situation, what kind of solution we have, not for one basic political option, and we work and destroy the country. I'm going to give you a few examples that analysts seriously, scientists who work in foreign policy, seriously put it on the agenda. For example, the process of reintegration into the Balkan area continues. The questions that he's asking, that's strategic issues. What do we have to answer to that follow-up? It won't just stay on Kosovo, which we don't, of course. She's moving on. Do we have an answer after? We have no response to Kosovo's secession. And what's next? Nothing. Another example, Euro-Atlantic integration. Many serious analysts, which you do not read, because you read NATO brochures etc., believe the European Union will turn into a regional organisation. Due to a lot of contradiction within the Union, public opinion studies, most Europeans against the European Union and so on. We tied all our foreign policy to European integration, not to say Euro-Atlantic integration. What if that day comes? You know how the Soviet Union suddenly collapsed, people had no vision that it would be so soon. What if the same thing happens to the EU? Where are we, what are we doing next, how is our strategy, what do we have an alternative? Nothing. The third question Mr. Mirovic said. He believes he wrote about this very serious book, that the situation in the Balkans is a compensation for the Middle East. If that's true, what is our answer? What do we have strategically? That's why neither the minister, nor the president, nor the government, even in the long run, can have a unilateral decision. There must be a national pledge for foreign policy, which will have different opinions and different solutions. Then the executive government, based on the development of the situation, will apply what is in Serbia's interest. That we don't have the current situation, that honorable advice that has no basis in the law, which represents the interest of American politics, not to tell you why, because it has another argument, and it's the president of a council that doesn't hide that he works for America and their policy. It's not Serbia's policy. Serbia must have its own policy, regardless of who is currently the ruling structure, which it considers to be her friend, ally and what I know, because maybe another structure doesn't. When the government comes, then we make it worse with one, we make it worse with another, then we have this unstable, undefined foreign policy all the time. So at least now, if we don't have a national foreign policy council, the president should be involved. So you had to accept it at least, if you didn't accept to delete Article 6 on advice and accept our discussion on board, to establish a national foreign policy council, which is a category that knows the law, and the Honorary Council doesn't know the law and doesn't even know the practice in Serbia, except now this first time, and that once Serbia is running a serious foreign policy, which is a long-term, strategic policy, and don't go to me -- come to me, from minister to minister, from government to government, then beautiful this country, then I've spent a nice vacation there, then we're going to improve our relationship with it; it's not a sweet country, because there's one of us cursing my mother and then we have to interrupt diplomatic relations. You can't do that. We have such nonsense in foreign policy. Not to say, for example, how compared, the former minister worked with some matter of strategic interest, such as the Arab-Israeli conflict, the question of Palestine, how he made a rough comparison, that it was nowhere, just in his head, and we move on, like no one else. So I would suggest that you still accept this amendment, until you accept a new amendment or when we do not change that law and create a national foreign policy council that will put in place a strategy and its different options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13429	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Mileta Poscurica is absolutely in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the spirit of a good diplomatic tradition. If the government had a little hearing about what the opposition is saying, this amendment would have to be accepted. What falls into the eyes when it comes to the proposal for a law on foreign affairs, it is seen in several places, that the government seems consciously intended to reduce the role of the President of the Republic in the conduct of foreign policy. Among other things, this can also be seen when the amendments of MP Mileta Poscurica to Article 23(1) are rejected. Proposal for a law on foreign affairs. It is quite logical, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the Republic should give consent to the opening of diplomatic and consular offices abroad. The constitutional standard, which you seem to forget, is that the President of the Republic is the only state body representing a country abroad. It is unconstitutional what you have introduced in the bill, that the state of Serbia abroad, besides the President of the Republic, is also represented by the foreign minister. Since world and century, the country abroad has been the head of state - in monarch monarchs, in the republics of the President of the Republic. You are now introducing a duality in representing the Republic of Serbia abroad, and you say: besides the President of the Republic, so does the foreign minister. But for that, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, there is no example in parallel practice. When a diplomatic-consular representation is opened in a foreign state, then the Republic of Serbia thus expresses its readiness to accept the other state as an equal member of the international community, as one future partner in political, economic, security and other relations. Since the constitutional norm that the President of the Republic represents a country abroad is quite logical what MP Mileta Poscurica has proposed is that the President of the Republic should give his consent when opening a diplomatic and consular representation in a foreign country. In the SRS, however, it is clear to us why you have a tendency to put the President of the Republic aside and not to express consistently what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that you fear the victory of the SRS candidates in the upcoming presidential elections. You know, as the whole of Serbia knows, that the future president of Serbia will be Serbian Radical Tomislav Nikolic and you are already establishing a legal basis for tomorrow, when Boris Tadic is not the President of the Republic, or when Tomislav Nikolic becomes President of the Republic, the president of the Republic, who is not from your ranks, to play as little as possible in foreign policy. Tomislav Nikolic will not allow secret diplomacy to be conducted when it comes to some essential issues for Serbia, including the Kosovo and Metohija issue. It is clear to all that this secret diplomacy is being led and that, unfortunately, from Serbia, from the ruling coalition, and above all from DS ranks, certain signals are being sent abroad, that the Republic of Serbia will not be very upset if a solution for Kosovo and Metohija that is not in line with the Serbian Constitution and is not in line with international law. And if that were the case, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you yourself confess. I'm sorry to have to go back a little bit in explaining these amendments, but here, Mr. Minister, I know you didn't write the bill, but it's not bad, since you're a good logicist, to see what's wrong with the bill. Article 10: "Cultural and Information Centre performs tasks" (and now watch the formulation) "public diplomacy from the work of the Ministry and other authorities of the state administration in the field of culture, in order to increase the reputation of the Republic of Serbia". Does that mean, Mr. Minister, when a cultural and information centre does public diplomacy work, that some other state body does secret diplomacy? Since we know that there is a secret diplomacy in this country and since the citizens of Serbia know it, I invite you, Mr. Minister, to come out for this pay phone and explain what is public, what is secret diplomacy, who in Serbia is running secret diplomacy and based on which constitution and on what law?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13431	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13432	Mr. Albianic, this is really unacceptable that we do not have an answer to these very important questions, and I am referring to Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure. It's about Article 23 and this amendment by Mr. Poscurica, which asked to be inserted into the words "with the consent of the President of the Republic". When those words are inserted or, to be more precise, if those words are inserted, then the government's decision to open or close diplomatic and consular representations is essentially a complex administrative act. Because the consent of the President of the Republic and that is the necessary ingredient in order to make one decision, without that agreement, could not be decided and in certain variants it is a common decision, under certain conditions. Let me remind you, the President of the Republic is headed by the executive authority. Here the primate is given and the minister's proposal is potential and the minister is emerging in the first place, which is essentially the internal relationship within the government. So something that's internal relations within the government is put first, and what's essential, it's gone. Whoever wrote the amendment has just found the right measure, that the President of the Republic should give prior consent. The authority for this previous consent shall, above all, be in the powers conferred on the President of the Republic by the Constitution. Shouldn't the one who sets up and recalls our ambassadors be kind of wondering where that embassy is going to be, where it's going to be a diplomatic consular representation? Can you imagine the situation? A few days ago, we had one here for moments of sendable discussion, where Mrs. Vesna Pesic, who was an ambassador to Mexico, went out and said, "You know what, they sent me to Mexico, and Mexico shut down the embassy in Belgrade -- what was I doing there in Mexico? You see, such a situation is possible if there is a big difference between how the President of the Republic feels he should exercise his authority and the one headed by the Government, if the Government were in one different configuration. For example, a government made up of some parties with which the President of the Republic has nothing to do with. The government is opening a diplomatic-consular representation and the president of the Republic will not bring an order to appoint an ambassador. It's a similar situation when someone comes as a diplomatic representative of a country, from abroad, to us. He's the first one to be ID'd to the President of the Republic. Of course, earlier at the Ministry, etc., but officially, the moment when the President of the Republic brings those notes with the flag, the play is played, a little snack, etc. It's an act that shows good neighbourly relations with the country that sent its representative. But no. You wrote the law here, because you're sure Tomislav Nikolic will be president of the Republic, and then they say, "Well, now we're gonna tighten him up, block him from all sides, that he can't perform his constitutional functions." You had to accept this amendment because the reasons for accepting this amendment are primarily in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you do not accept this amendment in Voting Day, then be sure that we can rightly say that you do not know the Constitution, you are violating the Constitution and you are deliberately doing what you are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13433	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have tabled an amendment to giving consent to the opening of a representativeship in the Republic of Serbia. Article 25: ''At the proposal of the Minister, the Government shall decide on giving consent to the opening of a representative office of another state or international organisation in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the opening of separate offices of a representative office outside its seat, if such a request is made. The government's decision is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia." The logical question is immediately raised here: on a proposal from which minister? It makes sense to be foreign minister, but we also have ministers of general practice. Especially since Vojislav Kostunica is prime minister, we have a minister who is a minister of energy in one term, in the next term is a minister of religion. Indeed, there is a question of all questions: which minister, on the proposal of what ministry, or of all ministers together? Obviously, we also have a minister of local self-government, who has great burden on his shoulders, and perhaps a drill for new laws on local self-government that are necessary to call elections in many local areas. The amendment of the SRS is quite clear, that in Article 25, the words "Minister" are added in the post 1st position, "with the consent of the President of the Republic". It is necessary for the President of the Republic to agree on the opening of another state's representation in the Republic of Serbia because it represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. It is clear that the President of the Republic should follow the foreign policy established by the Government because, above all, it is the responsibility of the President of the Republic. But the minister cannot represent Serbia. He can only follow what the President of the Republic does. If we know that Serbia's President is currently Mr. Tadic and that all these laws, and the Law on the Army of Serbia, and the Law on Defence, and the Law on Foreign Affairs, as well as the Law on Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, are necessary to discuss elections for the president of Serbia, then I do not understand why they do not accept the amendment of the SRS, where it is precisely in accordance with these drafts of the law and in accordance with the Constitution that the President of the Republic is the one who should propose a certain minister to represent both the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The point of the SRS amendment is not to seek greater authority for the future president of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, because we are only asking that the Constitution and the law be respected, not greater ingenuity. But also in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why this amendment is not accepted states that the amendment proposing the amendment is unacceptable since it does not comply with the tasks which fall within the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, in particular, Article 112. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is simply amazing because Article 111 defines the President of the Republic as expressing the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. The question is whether there is unity between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President in this state. Finally, if we look at the composition of the Republic Assembly and the state of play, we see that, apart from several DSS MPs who are constantly present, there are almost no G17 Plus MPs, not counting on the chairperson who, on account of his obligations, has to do the job, it is evident that there is no unity in the Assembly between the parliamentarians of the majority. It is then even harder to define unity between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state. But when the government calls for Article 112, I'm going to have to define it by who knows which time, at least a few views, I'm going to define it. The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. That's what the SRS amendment clearly defines. Sets and recalls an order by the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a proposal from the government, receives letters of accreditation and impeachment from foreign diplomatic representatives. So, all that we have put, placed, defined, stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So I would ask the minister who, as a matter of fact, must represent here the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to go out for this speaker and to really define the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment is rejected if it is in accordance with the Constitution, and Article 111 and Article 112, if it is the President of Serbia, and now Boris Tadic – we are not reducing his powers, but what we are giving under the Constitution. It's simple, except for what's perfectly clear, which is that you're afraid of the real situation, which is that the future president of Serbia is Mr Tomislav Nikolic and that you want to reduce the information. I think who knows which way you're making cardinal mistakes, and it's up to you to assess. I'd like to hear your expert opinion because you are still a longtime MP in the Republic Assembly, you're a lawyer, and I'm sure you support the views of the SRS in your soul, but I don't believe you have the courage to officially present it before the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13435	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment submitted by SRS MP Goran Cvetanovic is extremely serious and should be accepted, because from everything that's been happening to us and what's happening to us, you can easily conclude that it is mandatory to include the President of the Republic in matters like this. I'll just tell you, today you've had a chance, say, to read that the English embassy issued a statement that it is particularly concerned about what's going on in Novi Pazar and that they intend to open a consulate in Novi Pazar. At the same time, all possible red lights are on in every Serbian citizen because they know that the English, or Americans, the EU, and especially the English, have entered the civil war. Millions of refugees on the Serbian side, several tens of thousands killed and, when we take it now, to remind ourselves of this recent time in Novi Pazar, we immediately think that something new is coming to pass that will break into Serbia and Serbia's citizens' heads. Please, who can believe that the English are very interested in the problems of Muslims in the New Market and they now, the midwives, want to help them. Are they showing it anywhere in the world or have they decided to show it right here in Serbia? The best they can do, say, in Iraq, without any problems, and to convince not only Muslims in Serbia, but everywhere in the world, of their concern for Muslims. We must immediately conclude that there is something else behind this, something that will cause Serbia great damage, and there is no dilemma. When it ends, if it ends, according to their scenario, Kosovo and Metohija, by trying to separate Kosovo and Metohija, it is known what the next step is, it should not be very smart – Vojvodina. But conditions are being prepared in Raska at the same time. Why? That Serbia would be torn apart by as many parties as possible, so that it could not defend itself. It is therefore extremely important that the President of the Republics do this because, if the Minister would eventually agree to something like this, we assume that in any case, the serious President of the Republic will not make it easier for any foreign country to achieve these goals, as we unfortunately have had the opportunity to experience in the past two decades. And that's serious stuff. On one occasion I told you, right after that iftar dinner, where the American ambassador appeared – you remember, it wasn't that long ago – as soon as the American ambassador went to make peace between the Muslims, you robbed Bosnia. Where the Americans calmed down and went on a good-will mission, blood trails remain behind them. I also recommended that you, and now, our country, not in any way allow the opening of consulates in Novi Pazar because remember what led us to the opening of consulates in Podgorica. These are things we must never forget. A serious state, and I guess we'd have to strive to be a serious state, has to protect our own interests. When I say that it protects its own interests, then I say that it must protect the interests of the citizens of its own state and that all problems, if they exist, are solved by the state and not by someone else. I guess it's clear now, after these two decades, that no one will solve your problems. Nobody. They will only try to encourage them, to lead to chaos, in order to achieve in this chaos the goals that are important to them, not to the citizens of this country. That is why it needs to be defined in advance and to make it impossible, i.e., to deny all opportunities that would make it easier for them to achieve these goals, especially those that are extremely dishonest, which is to dispute in political, religious, national, on any basis of the citizens of Serbia and to use it to implement their objectives. That is why I think this amendment should be seriously considered and included in this by the President of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13437	The word has the People's Messenger Amjad Migati, according to the amendment. Three minutes, Mr. Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13438	I think the government, or the Ministry, had to accept that amendment, but since she refused the amendment to Article 23, she refused. However, just to warn you that such a member of the law does not agree with the Constitution, it is even undemocratic. It can't be in democratic practice everywhere in the world that the minister does everything on his own. You see, in law, Article 19, 21, 26, 27, 32, 34, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 48 says: The minister, prescribed by the minister, on a proposal from the minister. And on what basis he does it, he has no place to go. We suggested at least that it be a little more democratic, let's say on the basis of the Rules of Procedure or so on. Let's move on. In the law, Article 62: "The sublegal general acts provided for by this law will be adopted by 1 January 2009. " So, the minister will have a long time to make those decisions, a year. The minister changes, comes second, then he can again file a new sublegal act. And so, instead of being a stable, democratic law, which applies all the time, no, we give opportunities and every minister to change the law as they please. He doesn't have to consult with the president, according to some members of the law, but rather prescribes himself, and even if there are a lot of things that are strategic interest in foreign policy for Serbia, he still prescribes. That's amazing. I don't understand why you allow, who say you are Democrats, to give so much authority to a minister. I'm not saying for the current minister or future minister, I say at all, because democracy is known, there are regulations, everything has to be determined in order for one person to comply with that regulation, and not he prescribes and then executes everything. On what grounds? You know even the Government of Serbia, as I said earlier, has no right to put a strategy, it only implements a general policy that is based on a particular strategy already has a state. But I really don't understand how you won't accept the most logical things that minimally improve your law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13439	The word has been issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13440	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must confess that my colleague, Migati, has given me excellent cream. I wanted to say some of the things myself, maybe in a different way, but that's the story. It seems to me that Foreign Minister Jeremic himself here said it was technical law. You know, this law prescribes rules of play. It's prescribed, Mr. Todorovic, you said it very well. It is not a problem that something that is good, which is justified, which is for the benefit of the state and has been checked in some stable countries and prescribed, is just a problem as it will be applied. What I want to talk about when it comes to giving consent to the opening of a representation in the Republic of Serbia is part of what Mr Todorovic was saying. But that is why I am even asking why in this law, when relations on the Serbian political scene are so complicated, both internal relations between us and the external circumstances, why it is not possible to, say, find one obligation here, could be found in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and it would not be bad for it to be written in law, that once a year there are exposures to the basic foreign policy directions. As you know, we have passed, for example, a Law on Defence without working out what they say in Article 7 of that law, a strategy for the national security of the Republic of Serbia, a strategy for the defence of the Republic of Serbia and the doctrine of the Serbian Army. The same applies to external policy underlying exposures. Let us, for example, every three to six months, the minister informs us of what is happening in international circumstances, that is to report on Serbia's international position. I think the political moment in Serbia and the session itself where the negotiating team and the government of the Republic of Serbia would have submitted to us a report on Kosovo and Metohija, which was requested by the SPS, and here Mr. Jeremic was practically placed in the ranks of the president of the state and the Prime Minister, which means that he is in foreign affairs in their ranks, to finally hear what is happening in international circumstances around Serbia and in the treatment of Serbia when it comes to international affairs. I won't talk much about us raising our international reputation very often listening uncritically to our alleged allies. I say the alleged because many of them were obviously not sincere when it came to the interests of Serbia, which here some political structures really helped. Of the kind of raising Serbia's reputation, uncritically applying what is imposed on us in the domain of political doctrine, economic relations, the arrangements of the Serbian state, as far as I can see, we have only damage. I don't see our political allies from the so-called. the international community, and it is the world's supposed most powerful countries, has been very helpful. When I talk about it, I mean that, in my understanding of things, and I have evidence of it, and Vuk Draskovic, and before him Goran Svilanovic, were obviously American people. Otherwise, Goran Svilanovic would not have ended up as an Albanian lobbyist in the Stability Pact, and he did the same while he was foreign minister. I sincerely hope that this is not the case with Mr. Jeremic and that his education in America is no proof that he is currently in the role of someone else but the interests of the Republic of Serbia. What is further to be said is that what was professional in Serbian diplomacy until 2000 was largely expelled, expelled, expelled, belittled by the foreign ministry. Most of the time, not all of them. Some people who are top foreign policy actors in parts of the world such as, say, the Middle East, today are raising a listener at the Foreign Ministry headquarters, and I am not sure that those who came, especially during the Draskovic era, to the foreign ministry, aunts, aunts, run, and since 2000, many party first fighters, are the political elite that can represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia at this point. All those who were accepted as real professionals after October 5th, but I fear that at the moment when the Foreign Ministry should play one of the key roles, but a true role in resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues, raising the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia and other things to do, I'm afraid we have very few people who are truly diplomats of career, and we have too many party champions. After all, various returns, from Milan St. The opposition goes on to show that we have completely incompetent people who have been appointed simply because they are party champions. That thing isn't just about ambassadors and consuls. It goes to that point that even drivers, and probably some housewives or some associates were also named after party criteria and went there to be rewarded for their first-rounder. I don't mind if their expertise is prepared, their abilities and their knowledge of foreign affairs at the level. Unfortunately, it has proved in many cases that it isn't. In addition, the question arises when it comes to the area of the foreign ministry's human policy, so let's say we didn't have ambassadors until recently, practically, and we don't now, in all the most powerful countries in the world, and we don't know exactly what these people are doing there. I'll remind you that until practically a year ago, we didn't have ambassadors, it seems to me, either in Russia, or in London, or in Washington, and I'm not going any further, and we're stealing 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, maybe this law is kind of a technical law, it's even talking about some kind of working relationship here, but it's much more important that this assembly, or the citizens of Serbia, who are very closely following this, is my personal perception, I see when you go somewhere to talk about it, they're not actually informed in the right way the foreign ministry does. I only mentioned examples of Goran Svilanovic and Vuk Draskovic, and I would not like that to happen to Vuk Jeremic, not because of him, but because of us and Serbia's interest. Therefore, I personally think that this baptising and possible consulates, as counterpart Todorovic said, where due to their sensitivity, their relationship is not a place, and even less, according to the intentions expressed when it comes to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, that we should consider this in the context of a clear picture, both MPs and citizens of Serbia, a policy that will be run by the foreign ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That we will raise our reputation and prove that we are democratic, that we will open up some consulate in the New Market English, and then have problems with the work of that consulate, in my opinion, really any country that holds to its dignity would not take much account of democracy or even of human rights – when it comes to human rights, we see in Afghanistan and Iraq, we have had the opportunity to see our own skin here in Serbia – rather than to manage the interests of the Republic of Serbia. In order not to take too much time, since there is one kind of quiet and a little public agreement, that MPs of the opposition, because they participated in the adoption of this constitution and adoption of this constitutional law, enables the ruling coalition, thanks to the argument that they have 133 or 137 MPs, even the adoption of such unquality laws by the New Year, so I want to get to know the public that this is the good will of the opposition, not the quality of the law, which has nothing to say about them. I would also like to call on the negotiating team and the government of the Republic of Serbia to report on KIM as soon as possible, and Mr Jeremic to take the first session immediately in January. [[I hope there won't be too much delay in this House due to elections]] It would also be useful for the public of Serbia and for raising mutual trust, and above all I think it would be useful to clear up some of the doubts that exist between us that should represent the political elite, and also among the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13441	National MP Munir Poturak, replicating the presentation of MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13442	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, my replica is not my intention to challenge something that is said the opposite or something that is not true. It is my intention to warn all those who are trying to bring out certain things as regards the New Pazar and other cities in Sandzak or the Rasko region. Last Thursday, there was a round table in Novi Pazar, and it was noted that a very perfidious thesis is happening, that after Kosovo they come to the order of Sandzak and Vojvodina. This is why many statements occur, many discussions, and even some kind of political analysis that brings anxiety to citizens in the area I come from. For this reason, I wanted to ask my colleagues to approach this problem carefully, carefully, and with their statements, and with what is going on down there. I am telling you, it can be checked by anyone who deals with history, that Bosniaks from Sandzak have never had a diaspora outside of the former Yugoslavia and now Serbia that has been directed against Serbia and against Serbs, neither in Turkey nor in the West. It can be checked and it's one very important thing. But don't stop us from talking about the difficult economic situation in New Market. By setting the border towards Montenegro, with some administrative border towards Kosovo, Novi Pazar and cities along Bosnia and with Montenegro have become a elbow, a cornerstone in this country. They were very poor, they were very neglected, they're even more today. Because of those citizens in Novi Pazar and in other cities, it would not be so if I got patted on the shoulder tomorrow by what I said, there are places in Serbia that are both poorer and more underdeveloped and with less potential than this is our end. And that's where it's supposed to be helped. The opening of the consulate is a newspaper for me, and I would like to think, just as a gesture, that conditions are created in this area to live better, to create conditions for someone to come with foreign capital, that this zone is finally marked, that there are conditions that social firms don't sell through bankruptcy, but to find someone who wants it in a tender, someone as a strategic partner, to start something in our neighborhoods. That's the whole point. Our people, businessmen, have been able to open a Bulgarian consulate or some business representative, because many people travel, and they wait at least 10-15 days for a visa that would allow them to operate and work. For this reason, the intention, the desire or any of my conversions from here is to warn that it is simply understood that both Bosniaks and Orthodoxs and other peoples and national minorities live there and that the conditions of life are created for one and the other, and everything that bad works on everything there is reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13443	National MP Esad Djudjevic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13444	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I support what my colleague Poturak said, but let me just say, just for clarification, I've just consulted with people who have spoken with representatives of the American, English and French administration these days and it's a project to open the office of the OSCE Mission in Novi Pazar. Declarations by British, American and French diplomats went in this sense that they, as states, would support the opening of the OSCE Mission Office in Novi Pazar. So it's not about opening a consulate, and I read the same in the press, but I think it's incorrect information. It is the opening of the OSCE Mission Office in Novi Pazar that can contribute to the exit of this region from underdevelopment with various projects, donations and such. In that sense, my colleague Poturak told the real truth about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13445	National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, just to round up the story. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I have made sure that in no single word, or in any way, I do not bring what is happening in Novi Pazar into any context that would have any political connotation or that the SRS or I were giving an assessment of these events. What's more, and a dozen days ago, I sent a message that you found that solution yourself. I even criticized some in the congregation who applauded one another. I didn't think that was good. It doesn't have to be put on anybody's side in this case. You yourselves need to come to a solution. All those who allegedly want to help you, because of them you'll only get into a difficult situation, it will become more complicated, especially when it comes to those who allegedly want, now I hear, to open up the OSCE office. They have no intention of helping you. They are very skillfully trying to, allegedly through good intentions towards Muslims from Raska, sort of advertise everything that is related to KIM, or Iraq. Especially for Iraq. The fact is what happens in the West and the United States, which is directed against Muslims all over the world. Just take the Iran situation. Their president has been lying to the world for four years, lying to his citizens. There's a CIA report that Iran doesn't enrich uranium and doesn't create an atomic bomb, but that's the main charge against Iran. That's the problem you have to face. What would you say - beware of the English and America and gifts when they wear them. Take only BiH, take the Federation, they've already sent their contingent to Iraq for the third time. Now I ask the Muslims of the Raška region: what will you do when this military law is passed, and the contingent of our army is referred to, say, Iraq, Afghanistan? Don't think, you made a promise here, that it would be voluntary. There won't be any volunteers. Then it'll have to be an order. Will Muslims go to Iraq, Serbia's military? Or, ask yourself, how is it possible for soldiers from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to go to Iraq? Muslims go to war against Muslims in the war that the Americans started?- I'm sorry. Oh, man, get your head in the air! So be careful with all this. They want to take advantage of you, like they always did. To be clear, I'm not referring to this message for political reasons, because we don't have a large electoral body there, that we're now going to get voters from the Rasca area. I am directing this for the sake of the state and for you, and for all of us, for all of Serbia's citizens -- not to fall into the trap they're preparing for us because they're going to use us, abuse us, and it's going to make everyone worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13447	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13448	Dear fellow MPs, I came forward because I think I was misread by my colleague Munir Poturk. What was I thinking, buddy? It's about Kosovo and Metohija, not the Raska area. We are all witnessing that, as this first part of this negotiation process is brought to an end, there is a growing stake in the political game around Kosovo and Metohija. In this regard, the stakes are raised, and when it comes to Republika Srpska and its survival, you have seen this in Lajcak's thesis, not the authors of this issue, that there will be some riots in the Raška area, no ministers, no Prime Minister, no Serbian President, no one from this parliament. Someone with a conscious launch of that thesis. I didn't want to talk about the relationship between people living in the Raška area at all, but I wanted to talk about raising roles in the political game. I must tell you, not until the end and perhaps not consistently, but I agree with my colleague Todorovic, and I will also tell you why. It's nice to open the office of the OSCE Mission, but it won't make any investments. It is not there to bring loans, nor are its powers to assess the security of investment in Novi Pazar. She's here to give political evaluations, to perform a kind of monitoring and allegedly have a mission of goodwill. I must say that the experiences in this space, and I am afraid in some other countries, regardless of what may be a good will mission, are very often, in the interests of the Serbian state, and I repeat, for some other countries, were very bad. So we have bad experience with such a practice so-called. international communities. On the other hand, I don't rule out the possibility at all, although I don't know if England has a consulate somewhere else, I don't know if there can be more than one consulate, I don't know if it's possible by law, I'm not sure, a lot of things start from what the MPs of the United Kingdom show up. I can tell you that many things are still in the world today, where Americans will not find that about what the British Queen is doing, as a possible candidate for the President of the Great Lodge, if it isn't already. Therefore, please, one of the dominant crises facing modern Serbian society is national frustration. I beg you to and from that side, understanding the neighbors you live with...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13449	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13450	Just one more sentence to say, Mr. Chairman. Neighbors with whom you live, which are other nationalities or religious definitions - to invite you to live with each other, not that, because of the different political interests, we live next to each other. By living with one another, we will preserve peace, and peace will bring stability. When you have stability, investments will come easily for any area of economic development we want to talk about. I hope we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13451	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13452	Mr. Munir must have misunderstood Mr. Todorovic. He was not addressed at all to the expense of citizens living downstairs in the Raska area. However, he wanted to warn what he was thinking and what the British wanted to do. You see, at the beginning of the 20th century Lord Palmerston in his book "Eastern Britain", if I'm not deceived by memory, there's only one copy here at the Academy of Science Library, but it's protested why it's so-called. Sandzak connected with Serbia. They demand that the Allies take it away already, because it must and because of the West's interest, to the place where there is a small state and a small nation. It's been a British diplomacy strategy since the 20th century. Now, let's move on. Last month or before last month, Britain has already made it clear that it supports Albanian separatists and they will recognise Kosovo's independence. Now, as the press and diplomatic sources announced, that Britain will, if it does not change that, first recognise Kosovo's independence, which will be unanimously declared. Also, Mr. Munir, you remember that the previous German ambassador also had a part in it. So, British diplomacy and its strategy go to it, and it's not just against Serbs, it's against all Serbian residents, because the smaller the state, then the more control it can get. What is divided nations, then more and better to put them under a dictatorship. And that's why this danger of British diplomacy, which is known in history to be very much exaggerated, is very bad and has never worked in the interest of a nation, and it will not work in the interest of Muslims in Sandzak, as it has not done in the interest of Muslims in Bosnia. Because you know for yourself, now that Muslims, like Serbs and Croats, are occupied in Bosnia. The late Mr. Izetbegovic, when he resigned, or withdrew, made it clear and loud: I also withdrew because of the pressure so-called. The international community, which they occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina. And so, not to be one farce again, another occupation, the division of Raška, or the seceded Raška, after the occupation of Raška, which is why we all need to be careful, because it is a very, very serious question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13453	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you, honourable Members of the people, to finish this. It's not fair anymore. We can discuss this subject further, but we need to work on the agenda. Please, let's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Albianic, the announcements of SRS MPs by the Rules of Procedure are closely related to the amendment tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. What Mr. Dragan Todorovic said is absolutely correct. All in Serbia are well-known that the US Embassy and the UK Embassy, in addition to those regular diplomatic affairs, carried out by each diplomatic representative, also perform certain spy jobs and jobs aimed at the destabilising of the Republic of Serbia. But that's not just the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind the MPs that the American ambassadors in the Latin American countries were the main creators of civil wars, coups, drug trafficking and all those horrors that took place in Latin America in the '50s, the '60s, the 1970s. In fact, the American ambassadors were the true commanders of the death squadrons in Nicaragua and Salvador and other Latin American countries. What these embassies were doing in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, as long as the SFRY existed, is well known. What the embassies in the Republic of Serbia are doing today, related to resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, and that is correct. Mr. Dragan Todorovic did not present any insinuations here. What he said about the fact that after the Kosovo crisis, the issue of the Raska area and the issue of Vojvodina will be raised, Mr Dragan Todorovic did not say. He only repeated what was clear and loud a while ago said former German Ambassador to Belgrade Cobel. He said, above all, to the ruling coalition in Serbia, that Serbia might enter the EU about 2025, that Hungary has legitimate interests in Vojvodina because it was once Hungarian territory occupied by Serbia in 1918. Therefore, these are not any insinuations. What Cobel said, that's what the West thinks. He just said out loud what Western diplomats don't want to say. Mr. Poturak, don't forget one max when it comes to the ratio of Western forces to small countries: let you do what they say, take care of what they do. They spoke nicely and at the beginning of the Yugoslav crisis that they would offer us services of goodwill, to reconcile conflicted nations, to ensure the preservation of the territorial integrity of the SFRY, and in the end it turned into a bloody civil war. Obviously, the script is the same. They don't come to the Rasca region to bring you investors, to give you bread, to hire you. They need the Raska area as a hub of conflict. If there is no conflict between Serbs and Muslims, or as you say, Serbs and Bosniaks, there is sufficient conflict between Bosniaks, so they will appear as someone who will resolve the conflict. But take care of it, they always come to every country by carrying fire in one hand, and in another oil.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13455	The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I would like to take advantage of the minister's presence, since the government has decided that Mr. Markovic will be an authorised proposing for this item of the agenda, and to ask a question about what is happening today and what all the electronic media are now transferring, and what EU decisions are, or what is about to be, the EU's decision. Contact group members called on the EU to take responsibility for developments in Kosovo and Metohija and for resolving the status. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sweden, which is carried on by all the media, says this: we have almost reached unity about EU countries recognising independent Kosovo even without a new Security Council decision; there is only a little problem with Cyprus, which, due to its internal situation, has a problem with agreeing, otherwise all other EU countries have reached that agreement. This is what the European Union says. What do I care? I'm interested in what our country is doing today, at this point, right now. What is the Republic of Serbia doing, what is the government doing, what is the competent ministry doing? Is the demarch being sent? Has this obvious invitation to destroy part of our territory, to kidnap the southern Serbian province, done anything about it? What have billions of dinars been spent on? They were spent by government members, various cabinets, various offices, and all others who traveled through all these countries (road expenses, journals and everything else) to convince us, since these are your great friends, that this is a question that they will easily solve. We today have information that, apart from Cyprus, all other EU countries are in order for Kosovo and the Metohija to be taken away from us. That's what they say openly and broadcast all the electronic media. At this point you can go to any site and turn on any channel of any television and see it. I'm interested in what the Republic of Serbia is going to do. Because in the past, unfortunately, and in the previous year, we have had the situation that many representatives of foreign states in this country have the right to come to Serbia, say that Kosovo should be independent, that Serbia should not even be asked about this issue, without our country doing anything, not even sending an official protest, a protest note to that country, to say: you are being rudely mixed, against international regulations and conventions and against the UN resolution, into the internal affairs of our country and thereby harshly disrupting our country's sovereignty. What the EU is doing now is the most flagrant collapse of the Republic of Serbia, mixing into an internal issue leading to the secession of our territory, and I am interested in what the government is going to do. I would like to get an answer right away because that is what the Serbian citizens are most interested in right now. It is the MPs of the SRS who are rebelling and are asking these questions because this is a burning issue of the Republic of Serbia and this is something that Serbia can no longer wait for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13457	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, I have a parliamentary question under article 198, and I ask that as such enter the stenographic notes of this session, given that I am not a competent person, Mr. Markovic. He may know something about it, but I'm looking for an answer to the question I'm going to ask from Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Namely, this member of the law to be passed, on foreign affairs, does not say under what conditions he decides to give consent. The article does not specify at all what conditions some international organisation of a country needs to fulfil to have here, in its seat, or as it is said, an even isolated office outside the seat. My parliamentary question concerns the US government's pro-government agencies that want to take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. So, I ask the foreign ministry question: do agencies that have public ads in our daily and weekly newspapers, one of which exists in Kragujevac, where I live, and which are engaged in the sale and exchange of Serbian and Metohija assets, have consent, who granted them approval and under what conditions can they work? It's a big scam from the Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija. They, along with a commission, of course, and with a "mediation", all Serbs who have been exiled from their hearths are about to place the same story. To forget about going back to Kosovo and Metohija, that Kosovo and Metohija's independence is over, of course, because it is also the official position of America and their secretary of state. Your newspaper's full of statements today. Well, you see, Minister Vuk Jeremic himself said he was waiting to be called Condoleezza Rice to try to convince her that Kosovo and Metohija should not be independent. I am interested, therefore, which is the ministry, whether it was Goran Svilanovic, Vuk Draskovic - it would not surprise me, could find out who knows how many such powers and approvals. It is not just that they do something in a certain way that is contrary to the Constitution of our country, which is that they are engaged in the sale of the Serbian country, of course, with great coercion and with various kinds of blackmail against Serbs left by the current government, who are in the capacity of exiled persons and who do not have the bread to eat or are located in collective centres or who knows where they wander, with friends, relatives, and it lasts eight years. It's a very serious matter. They have public ads on our daily and weekly newspapers. They pay and they buy the whole side and they say, and they're still calling for the pro-government to be an American agency. I didn't notice any other countries involved. Here, Mr. Albianich, if you care so much about pressing that bell, and you don't care if I define the parliamentary question to the end, no problem, I'll get back to you later. So, the intention is clear, and that is what they were talking about, first of all, Mr. Todorovic, but also other Serbian radicals. If there is already a Convention on Diplomatic Relations, and this law regulates external relations, every international organisation, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Albianic, should also accept that he has rights and obligations as a form of diplomatic representation. Not one diplomatic representation, which gets an aggregate from one country to represent it in that territory, that it has strict regulations regarding this convention, and international organisations to do and do what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13459	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13460	Please forward this in the form of a parliamentary question. I am very interested in what period the current minister will look at, and I am looking for, as of October 8th, from when, without a decision of the National Assembly, the one who led the anti-Serbian policy and led it further, and the adviser, Minister Jeremic, Goran Svilanovic, took possession of Kostunica's consent, of course, as foreign minister, to this day. How are they registered and who gave them approval, and what have they contributed as their work programme on the territory of the Republic of Serbia? In particular, those involved in the sale of Serbian property in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13461	The word has been given by MP Vladan Batic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13462	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment is causing numerous controversy and dilemmas and is asking a number of questions. These questions concern simple facts. Has the state of Serbia agreed so far to open diplomatic representations, cultural missions, economic centres, information centres in Kosovo and Metohija? Did a foreign state, or international organisation at all, ask Serbia to open a diplomatic mission, consular representation, a cultural centre, an information centre, an economic centre in the KIM area? I didn't hear. Did the Republic of Serbia protest a foreign country for opening the DKP, informative, cultural and other KIM centres, apart from the consent, knowledge and communication of the state of Serbia? It's not. So, how does Serbia claim to be sovereign in all its territory, that is, in a work called Kosovo and Metohija? If there is no agreement there, even without knowledge, without notice, without question open various missions and representations, then it is quite clear that whoever allows it, or who doesn't ask for it at all, and is not sovereign in that part of state territory. But we have one reverse case. It seems to me that Serbia began to open its own seats, the representations of some KIM institutions in Belgrade. Here's my question. Where's the seat of the KIM Museum? In Belgrade. Where's the headquarters of the Unity List? It's the only Serbian list on KIM. In Belgrade. Where's the seat of the KIM District Library? Where's KIM's revenue management headquarters? In Belgrade. Where's the seat of the PIO Fund? Back in Belgrade. Where do the directors or representatives of these KIM institutions sit and receive 200 percent salary? In Belgrade. Where are the directors of 40 health centers with KIM and also receiving double salaries? In Belgrade. So, alone today, before anyone recognized Kosovo and Metohija's independence, we moved everything out with KIM. The headquarters of all these institutions of this country compared to its part called KIM are located in Belgrade. Then let's not deal with false patriotism, cheap patriotic demagogy and hypocrisy. It's all hypocrisy. That's all double-arshin policy. And one more thing, to take advantage of the opportunity, to Kosovo is the municipality of Kursumli. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the border between the municipality of Kursumli and KIM is 109 kilometers long? Did you know that there are about 15 villages on that border? Did you know that three villages no longer have any residents? Did you know that of these 15 villages on the border between the municipality of Kursumli and KIM there are about 300 citizens? There, Serbia slowly dies, Serbia slowly disappears, no one has to take anything from us. And then people who protest, reservers from the neighborhood, turn into Palestinians and Kurds, and disobey their demands. It's not saying -- let's at least talk, find a common language -- but a arrogant, arrogant, without any arguments, instead of Serbia worrying, disrupting, mobilizing and stimulating people who live there. There, first your wheels fall off from Prokupja to Kurzumlia, there is no longer normal to come, and then everything is empty. Slowly, Serbia dies. The state, if it wants to be sovereign, has to take special care of the border area. He has to make sure he respects the people who live there. I, yesterday, at a rally where there were over three thousand people, ordered and now, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're interested, I'm appealing to the government and I'm asking, as DHSS MP, that one of the next cabinet sessions be held in Kursumlia, right next to Kosovo, to see how these people live, to see their demands, to see their ambience. How can Kim defend herself when he leaves Kurzumli and raises his hands from Kursumli? I expect a response for the representations, both for these double salaries, and for the KIM institutions whose directors are sitting in Belgrade receiving a salary of 200%. Of course, then these reserves can't be paid for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13463	Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Goran Cvetanovic? No, I don't. Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Chapter 5 be added after Chapter 4. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13464	Thank you. This is an amendment introducing a new Head, Fifth, and within it three members, and it is the ministry's co-operation with the National Assembly. The committee in charge has accepted, the Legislative Committee considers it legal. On behalf of the Government, I accept the amendment, so I assume that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it becomes an integral part of the text of the law, so that you don't have to vote for it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13465	The voting day will settle that question. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13466	Although these two amendments have been accepted, I want to say something, since there have been some debates here. The Foreign Affairs Committee discussed the law on two occasions. Both times there was a minister present. I can say that the debate on the Committee was very tolerated and that we were able to come up with some important things to agree, that amendments were adopted unanimously. What did it matter to us? It is, above all, one co-operation with the Ministry and respect for what is called parliamentary diplomacy and what are all these obligations. There were words here about whether or not they behave, whether they have obligations for representatives of our diplomatic representations abroad. You'll see it's a well-developed amendment. Of course, the ministry has accepted this and future co-operation will be important. The second issue referred to the ambassadors' obligation to expose their view of the country and what and how they think they are doing when they leave for a new post in parliament. The impression of the ambassadors has been made, the ministry has been informed. This is not an unimportant question, because of the impression they made, and the question, as soon as we send it to the ministry of the station and publicly, obliges future diplomats to prepare themselves seriously for their duty. What was also important is notification. So this link and the dissemination of mutual information is very important for the coordination of our country's entire diplomacy. It is foreseen here, and this is clarified on the amendment Mr Baralic has set here, that the minister submits a report to the Committee at least twice. We believe that these were key issues for the relationship between the Assembly and the Ministry and I can express my satisfaction that this was unanimously adopted. Government representatives have shown a lot of flexibility in these issues and I hope that future co-operation between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry will be at the necessary level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13467	Thank you, Mr. Micunović. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13468	To your enthusiasm, Mr. Albianic, I'll do it very briefly. I just want to inform the MPs and the general public that this amendment has arisen because of one consensus, obviously, which was created at the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but at the initiative of the SRS MPs, in the first wave because the law itself was unrecognizable. If you look at the stenographic notes from the principle debate, when we have started the debate under this law, you will see that this is one of our key remarks on the bill – why there is no relationship between the MIP and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This will create a good practice, in case the minister is up-to-date, and his ministry, and in this way they co-operate, as a member has prescribed, with the National Assembly, because, I said that when the debate was in principle, it was amazing for me that there are no annual reports and reviews of the activities, especially because our country is in a very sensitive political moment when it comes to our relationship with those who want to take our territory. They will not stop only in Kosovo and Metohija. We as a state and as a people, unfortunately, will have to fight a diplomatic battle in the long run. I believe that the very change of political forces in the country, after the next presidential elections, will create a different picture of us and of our options. I think it would be my turn, which is why I call on Mr Micunovic, as president of the Committee, to take this issue of the current activities of our ambassadors who were put in place at a time when he himself did not vote for their appointment, or when the Assembly itself had no information about it, although I am not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but I will gladly, when that point is on the agenda, if it is, and I suggest that it be as soon as this law is passed, to ask for information about the operation and the establishment of all of our ambassadors so far, because we have, and as members of parliamentary delegations, not all of course, I spoke first of all about this Stojanovic, who is the ambassador of our country in the Netherlands, because of the fact that there is the Hague, an extremely negative experience. And thus, this Article 28, that the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia are having a conversation at the National Assembly's committee before going on diplomatic duty, in case, on condition that someone does not pass the exam, I don't know how he would then be appointed to the post if he came to the MPs of the National Assembly unprepared or apparently unable to perform that function. It is also very important to ask the question that I have to potentiate here today, and so my colleagues Momir Markovic and Amjad Migati will agree, it is certainly within the work of this committee and that this diplomatic activity would be kind of synchronised, from the Assembly to the MIP, it is very important to start with intensive work, it is a sort of top of legislative diplomatic activity, committees, or a group of friendships. They only exist on paper so far. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have determined that the National Assembly can form groups of friendships and the National Assembly has defined a large number of countries with which we wish to co-operate as parliamentary delegations and to have these committees. That's very important. I will tell you that the hesitation in this regard and the inability of these groups of friendships to do their work intensively, so that the legislative authority takes active participation in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, in business co-operation with countries that want to co-operate with us, in any other respect, cultural, scientific, very big problem. I must remind you, with the re-congratulations of the United Russia on their huge victory last week in the elections, that the President of the Russian State Spirit Mr. Grizlov, at the talks he had with us at the House of the National Assembly, then you, too, were present, gave some sort of a grudge to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that its committees did not co-operate with the Russian State Duma. We specifically referred to this aspect of economic co-operation, which is not good and which is not enough, and to the aspect of the political exchange of experiences between Russian State Duma MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, particularly in the field of science and education. He even said that, as far as he knows, you can find it in the notes from that conversation, since 2001 or 2002, there was almost no co-operation at the educational, cultural or scientific level. He meant institutionally, between two legislative bodies. We also have experience in parliamentary delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to meet with our colleagues, we work there by committees, by committees, by committees, which are from parliaments of other countries, but also as important, this work is only reduced to formal or informal contacts, but friendship groups, which have before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia their representatives, presidents above all, and then members, who want to actively engage in this cooperation and in the exchange of experiences, not only in the field of legislative activity, but you know that when a parliamentary delegation from any country, above all a friendly country, comes to us or we go there through groups of friendships, and how there can be a major contribution to the development of the overall relations between the two countries, economic co-operation, and to the level of local self-government. It is not by any chance what happened and what happens is that our MPs whose parties participate, primarily by Serbian radicals, Mr Igor Bečić and other Serbian radicals who have power in municipalities where the MPs are from, that in these international contacts with colleagues from countries that are our own and how sympathetic, they also achieve this co-operation that is for the benefit of all citizens and for local self-government. I am also saying this because of the fact that a large one has been announced for Kragujevac and how, above all, the economic importance of the event that was delayed for next year, for February, which is called "The Days of India in the Heart of Serbia". It is really necessary that, and because of this and because of co-operation with all other countries that have such intentions to present their overall offer, which for our businessmen, which for the whole market in any other co-operation and any other exchange, to understand in the most serious way that the work of each group of friendship, we Serbian radicals have exclusively defined ourselves to co-operate with countries that did not kidnap KIM, which did not bomb us, countries that have open friendly relations on equal grounds, to start working. So we, in exchange for information through these members who will also be adopted through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, could also find experience in contact with the Minister of Foreign Affairs's report to pass. That's what we'll be authorized to do. Of course, members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or independently, at the invitation of other countries or parliaments, or in collaboration with another assembly committee, educate parliamentary delegations, but the work of friendship groups is also important. I therefore believe that, for how many days to come, but it would be truly scandalous not to solve it by the end of the year, it must be clearly defined, in order for MPs to take responsibility and seriously take this diplomatic role that we have as representatives of the people and as people who want to cooperate with the countries for which we have defined ourselves by our choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13469	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 38th Amendment (with correction) was jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudževic, Bajram Omeragic, Srdjan Sajn and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13470	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only be very brief since, unfortunately, there is no Minister in the O.R. In the foreign ministry, members of national minorities are represented in an extremely small number. This also applies to employees of the ministry who carry out their tasks in Belgrade and as diplomats in the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia. The People's MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the List of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Roma Party have proposed an amendment that reads: "In order to actively involve members of national minorities in the work of the ministry, measures will be taken to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the ministry." We have also proposed this solution when setting up ambassadors and high-level diplomats as well as the appointment of other diplomats. We do not, of course, consider that places in diplomacy should be divided by the key system, as it was twenty years ago, but we think it would be good for members of the national minorities to be represented in a number of foreign affairs ministries, as well as in other state bodies. Of course, we do not ask that members of the national minorities be employed if they do not have the necessary knowledge, but we believe that among the members of the national minorities there are such people who could engage in diplomatic service, as well as be employed by the Ministry in Belgrade. Unfortunately, the government rejected this amendment with the reason that the above-mentioned amendment is rejected because of the application of the State Employees Act to work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which regulates the issue of employment of national and other minorities in state bodies in Article 9(3). This Article 9(3) reads: Employment in national authorities shall take into account that national composition, gender representation and the number of persons with disabilities of reflections to the greatest extent possible of the population structure. This solution was proposed about six months ago by our fellow MP Srdjan Shine, and that amendment was then adopted and this is why this is the case in the Civil Service Act. I must also remind you that since 2004, there has been a conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on measures to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, but unfortunately, that member of the Civil Service Act, as well as this Government's conclusion on measures to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, is not applicable. That's why this situation is today, that there are no members of the national minorities in either the foreign ministry or other ministries, neither in the courts, nor in the prosecutions, nor in the police, nor in the police, nor in the list. For reasons we believe it would be good to accept this proposed amendment. I must say, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly, this amendment was supported exclusively by the only MPs from G17 plus. I don't know what the reason other parties of the ruling coalition did is, but I hope that it is still possible for all three parties of the ruling coalition, or its MPs, to support this amendment, to vote in the day. We believe that the adoption of this amendment is good not only for members of national minorities, but also for the Republic of Serbia. Last week, I said it was in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to have bilateral co-operation in the ministry represented people who speak language, who know culture, who know relations in countries in the environment, with whom the Republic of Serbia should have extremely good relations. Once again, I ask all MPs to support this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13471	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is made by MP Esad Djudjevic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after the amendment, and then by MP Laslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13472	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first discuss the reasons why it is important for the Assembly to accept this amendment and vote for it. I'll start with what my colleague Pastor has finished. We are concerned that it is also very important, according to the estimates of many domestics, we also heard that two and a half years ago the government adopted a special strategy on the need for increased involvement of minorities in state bodies, and that we are not talking about many domestic and international institutions, to mention in this case only the European Parliament resolution as a recommendation to the European Commission, that it is very important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does everything possible to ensure that the participation of minorities in many state bodies is adequate for their population. Just to remind you that without Kosovo and Metohija, therefore in the Republic of Serbia, 17% of citizens are actually members of minority national communities. So in order to meet these domestic standards, let me say, and international standards, it is very important that MPs of all parliamentary groups support this amendment, because it will rightly express, or demonstrate our country's desire that we, members of the minority national communities, feel this country as our own and feel equal. It is in this segment, where we represent ourselves in the world, so in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our consular-diplomatic representations, it is very important that national minorities participate. I can say another very important thing about this amendment. We, representatives of minority national communities, or minority lists in this House, are absolutely different on many political issues, we have demonstrated this in the work we have done in this House, but as far as minority rights are concerned, and especially in this segment, the law on foreign affairs, we have for the first time stopped all, representatives of all minority lists. In this case, it is very important that this parliament adopt something that is absolutely the will of legitimate representatives of minority national communities in this parliament. Once again, I ask all of you, representatives of all parliamentary groups, to support this amendment and thus demonstrate the desire that we, members of the minority national communities, participate equally in this very important segment, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as our diplomatic and consular representations in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13473	Thank you, Mr. Dwarf. The People's Messenger Laszlo Varg has the word, and then the Messenger of Srdjan Shin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13474	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would continue where my predecessors have left off. On the one hand, the government has rejected this amendment with a reason that the Law on State Servants regulates the issue of employment of national and other minorities in state authorities. To me, the rejection of this amendment is another evidence of a two-faced DS policy. You say one thing, the other you do. What's this about? The Law on civil servants states that employment in state authorities takes care that the national composition of the image is the largest possible structure of the population. This formulation is indicative. That's why you accepted this formulation a few months ago. The question cannot be asked why this formulation is not being implemented, why this formulation is not being applied. We have proposed this amendment to formulate, on the basis of which measures would be taken to increase the participation of members of national minorities, and that is something else entirely. Of course, this would mean a specific obligation for the Foreign Ministry, and that's why it's not being accepted. Otherwise, we have information that the Ministry has been prepared to accept this amendment, and the Republic Secretariat of legislation has hitched all this, or been against this amendment. I appeal from this place to the ruling majority either to support this amendment or to have someone explain to us why this amendment is not actually accepted, because this argument certainly does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13475	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. We've got another amendment next to this, so we're gonna finish this part and then we're gonna take a break. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13476	Before I underline the difference between the amendments that I have submitted to the Law on State Servants and this amendment, I want only a few introductory notes, so that there is no misrepresentation of the will of the minority members of this House, who have submitted this amendment. First, we must define that Serbia's state diplomacy, unfortunately, is at this point not a diplomacy that is up to the current moment. We can hear that from many European and world diplomats if we talk to them. So, we are not for the fact that otherwise the poor human condition in diplomacy is getting worse by applying certain keys and that it will be a reason for us to justify ourselves, that diplomacy in the state of Serbia is not at the best possible level. Next, there's one more thing we need to clear up here. It was the basis for us to submit this amendment, which is that diplomacy is not only knowledge, but that diplomacy and skill. Here we come to the key word, which differs from the amendment that is already part of the Law on civil servants and this amendment that we have submitted to this law. When you hire someone as a civil servant in the municipality, in the province or anywhere on the state level, it's enough that he only has knowledge. He doesn't have to know the skill when he's sitting at the table, whether he's sitting at the same time as the host or he gets up before or after him, you don't have to explain to him how he makes contact with the talker, he can be arrogant and sweet enough, but he can be a very good civil servant in the municipality, the province or at a republican level. But when you talk about diplomats, he must rule many skills. To rule these skills, it is time for diplomats in Serbia to pass one training process for, indeed, to be diplomats, not only of knowledge but also of crafts. In that sense, this amendment says that we must take certain measures. For someone to be in diplomacy, it's not just for you to say in a contest: he's a minority member, so be my guest. The measures are that in the process of preparing diplomats, we make sure that members of different national communities are represented, that citizens from rural parts of Serbia are represented. They should not be diplomats from Belgrade alone. It's not good to have some diplomats from Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. We should involve people from all parts of Serbia in diplomacy. And people whose parents are farmers should be diplomats tomorrow, and they unfortunately can't learn certain things about diplomacy. This amendment goes in that direction, that members of the national communities should be in those schools, and this opens the way and opens up a new era of thinking in that direction, that indeed all Serbian citizens can be diplomats in a certain way. If Mrs. Nada Kolundzija hadn't turned her eyes while I was talking, I'd just say they have a chance and an opportunity for both the SRS and the DS to clearly say in the presidential elections who is for minorities, who wants minority votes and to vote for this amendment, because we already have a proposal that the G17 plus wants to support it. So, if they support minorities, I hope the SPS doesn't mind adopting this, then we have one clear policy that the DS and the SRS, as two strong political options in this assembly, clearly state who is in favour of having minorities in diplomacy, who is in favour of supporting the full participation of minorities in Serbia's political life, and who is in favour of talking about one declarative way. I hope that in the end, the Serbian Parliament will vote with all votes to adopt this amendment and that in this way we will show that the opinion that exists in the Serbian people, which is that minorities are equal, that we should all be represented in all the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13477	Thank you, Mr. Shane. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13478	I also wanted to take the opportunity to invite all parliamentary groups to support this amendment, because this amendment may not be in accordance with some law, but fortunately it is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have a constitutional standard that says that national minorities should be included in all state institutions. It is extremely important that the multiethnicity that we receive after the established census is reflected also in the composition of all state institutions, as well as in the composition of our diplomacy. It can only benefit the state and give national communities the opportunity to share responsibility with the majority people and make this type of representation of their country the best possible way. Of course, I don't stand for any kind of key, to get diplomats representatives of national communities who don't speak foreign languages, have no higher education, have no experience, have no skills, have not passed any courses, but to get representatives who meet all the legal requirements, and only then, because they belong to a minority, come into mind that they work in diplomacy. Of course, minority representatives should be bridges of co-operation with both their countries of origin and with all countries which, in some ways, show interest. The speaker was told today even that certain international institutions, certain countries, show interest in certain regions. I think that's exactly the kind of reason we should be led to have representatives of minorities in state institutions, that they say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia what they think of their region, about their position. Tell them so in the capital of their country, as diplomats, and tell them in the region where they come from. I think all parliamentary groups should support this amendment because it is in the interests of the state and contributes to confirming this constitutional norm that all citizens are equal and that minorities should be integrated into all state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13479	Thank you, Mr. Omeragic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The subtitle above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13480	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of this amendment is to define the reasons for the early termination of employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, one of the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship is the loss of workability, which is defined in the draft law through Article 61. The SPS MPs, however, believe it is necessary to regulate and in what other cases an early termination of the working relationship may occur. This amendment reads as follows: ''Subtitled above article 61. The bill is amended and reads as follows: 'The reasons for the termination of the employment relationship'. Article 61 adds a new position 1 which reads: 'The employee of the Ministry ceases working relations in the event that: 1) harms the state or official secret in doing business or in his work endangers the security of the Republic of Serbia, 2) makes it impossible to carry out official tasks, 3) causes and encourages national, religious or racial intolerance or damages the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, 4) and under other conditions provided for by law'. Article 1 is replaced by the following: 'The Minister shall adopt an act on the termination of the employment relationship of a member of the position of 1 this member to whom an employee may appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia within the time limit laid down by law from the date of receipt of the act referred to in Article 2'. Existing Article 61(1) The bill becomes item 3." Let me remind you, attitude 3 is talking about loss of workability, which is also one reason to stop working. In the present conditions, it is possible, indeed, in the form of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to detach from the service rules, perhaps more frequently than in the previous period, and to create reasons and conditions for the termination of the employment relationship before the regular period. The bill does not mention that diplomacy is a professional service, nor do instruments and procedures guaranteeing professionalism of diplomacy. For diplomatic calls, even for the heads of diplomatic and consular offices, it is not even prescribed that candidates should have higher education. The absence of diplomatic experience is also very significant. Professionalism is extremed and put aside, which is really inadmissible. Whatever opinion you have on professionals who were in diplomacy until 2000, the fact is that there really was a number of people at the Foreign Ministry who knew their jobs and were people of crafts in this business. The foreign ministry also represents a very important service that must have the highest level of security. I think it's a little bit taken care of. In such conditions it is also possible to deviate from what the rules in this service are and to make significant mistakes, which would have been regulated by the adoption of this amendment, so that it could stop working before the time. The law stipulates that foreign citizens can be employed in the foreign ministry. This law should regulate that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not citizens of other countries or people with dual citizenship, can be employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, precisely for security protection. Exceptionally, it may have been possible to make a concession in the case of the reception of people from the local population where our embassies or consular representations are located only for the performance of technical tasks, for those jobs where there is no access to information, etc. These issues, precisely for the protection of our representative offices, were to be taken into account. This amendment certainly goes to that side, in terms of the revision of this law, in order to comply with certain rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13481	The word is by MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13482	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking this opportunity to welcome you, since I have been away for a long time. I responded to this amendment because it kind of fits what I've been staying abroad lately, I've had a chance to see. You can still think best about your country when you're out of it. I've been in The Hague for the last 33 days. I witnessed there for six days defending those accused there. I went after General Lazarevic's call. When I left The Hague, they told me I was the absolute recordman and the only man in the world who witnessed 26 days in The Hague and spent 96 days there. I noticed that all the other indictees who are there have their own state except Serbs and those who come from Serbia, who are the most there and who do not have a state because no one stands behind them. I've been through dozens of times past our embassy. In all 96 days, no one from that embassy has come to see any witnesses. The chairman was interested, since he knows me since 2005, when I testified twice, what I am doing, what my place in the congregation is, he was also interested in the work of this assembly. But it wasn't interested in anyone else representing this country there. All witnesses, no matter what you think about it, represent the state of Serbia and defend the state of Serbia, although they came at the invitation of certain individuals. What else did I see? I've noticed that all the documentation this country has is already there. They also asked me about some of my documents, which I couldn't see while I was here in Serbia because they weren't given to me. Now I can say that all citizens of Serbia, when they are interested in something, can address The Hague tribunal -- there they will get everything that their country does not give them here in Serbia. Imagine, you are all witnessing that through the media for a long time it has been said that the state of Serbia is a hostage of certain generals and a certain number of people. In fact, all those people who are there are the hostages of Serbia because it doesn't care about them at all. All others in the best possible way, by engaging all their services, are helping their people, and today Serbia is doing everything it can to make the situation more difficult for its people who are there. It's true, I haven't had any difficulties. I left here and, although I had the most experience of all, I prepared for more than 20 hours a day. However, two of the following witnesses, who are still active in the military, when they reported here to their elders that they had been called to testify, one from the Military Academy was immediately made available and relieved of his duties, and only asked to be given a vacation to prepare. They told him you could go. Meanwhile, he has already been prepared to retire even though he has failed to meet any legal requirements. I've tried so hard to get here and see the Secretary of Defense in this first bench. I know what I would have had to say to this man, who even launched a media ring against some people in The Hague, specifically against General Ojdanic. Imagine you people, he gave one witness who was scheduled to testify tomorrow to General Dikovic for two days, gave him a two-day leave, and said he had to report to Serbia by 24:00 on Tuesday. This man, that defence minister -- I said this man because I do not want to insult the human species, and that minister belongs to the human species -- is directly working against Serbia's interest. Because after me, the next man to be there on impact is that general. How will he defend himself when he's never been in that court? Instead of having the whole state stand behind him, to tell him -- here's 15 days, here's a month, get ready in The Hague, because you are not defending General Lazarevic, but Serbia -- the minister gives him two days. And it is likely that he is already preparing his retirement, because the judge, the chairman, did not accept Mr Bonami's request from a lawyer to suspend General Stojanovic's testimony today, Monday, to testify to General Dikovic's return to Serbia by 24:00 on Tuesday. What kind of monsters do we have in the places of ministers who don't think about their country? We're talking about the State Department here. Each of us, when found in a foreign country, no matter what role he is in, still represents Serbia. Our ambassadors are our athletes, but every other citizen is a representative of this Serbia. Those people who are there seem to be burdens for Serbia, like any who go there to show that everything that's been going on in '98. and '99. It's not the way it's supposed to be in the world. I know how I went. I know how it went, and I know the prosecutor who tried to prove something in my case. But I wonder how General Dikovic will go, how Colonel Jevtic, who knows that this country directly, through its defence minister, will work against them, and they are still in state authorities, in the military of the same state. It's one hard feeling, gentlemen, when you know you're out, and you have your own country against you. I felt it in 2005. This time I didn't feel it, but I saw it still being done in this state of Serbia. And I want to say it publicly, that all citizens of Serbia know it. There will be some elections. Now, I've been asked by Russian journalists if we have an army that can meet these challenges. I could've just laughed. Serbia has nothing, and in particular there is no army that can respond to any, or even the most serious, challenge, rather than what is being done in the world and around Serbia today. Gentlemen, in the last ten days, there's been a real haranga on television in Europe. At different stations, there, even second-rate stations in the Netherlands, you can watch at least three to four shows that are related to Serbia for ten days at night. They are all preparations for a solution to Kosovo and Metohija. All these shows are dedicated to the time of Slobodan Milosevic. All these shows are negatively talking about Serbia. Even that show on the BBC, which our foreign minister participated in, was absolutely counterproductive to Serbia because, in my opinion, it did not respond to the challenge. Even the way the head of the show treated him was unacceptable to a man representing a country, even if it was Serbia. I had a need to say so, and in this amendment I found places exactly in this word, where it is said that someone should be removed by hurting the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. We have many who represent us in the world, who are a disgrace to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13483	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law on external affairs in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the basis of the regulation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will extend the work even after 1800 hours, because we need efficient and good work. I thank the MPs for that. I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue our work at 3:27 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE FEATURES OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT: Zoran Krasić, Sulejman Spaho, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Antić, Milorad Buha, Dr Paja Momčilo, Vjerica Rade, Saša Valjarević, Petar Jojić, Nikola Vukelić, Jovan Daja, Momcilo Duvnjak, Mr Srboljub Živanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Dragan Živkov, Sreto Perić, Radoslav Jevrjemović, Bozidar Koprivica, Veljko Kovačević, Predrag Mikić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Radan Milovanovic, Ogjan Mihajlović, Goljko Živić, Žalić Žalić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić. You have also received amendments on the basis of Article 140(5) of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee on the Amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13485	Mr. President, I'm going to talk about this amendment, but on the condition that you inform after the minister everything I've said, since I see he's not here, because that's the only way this debate makes sense. If you don't take the obligation to fully inform him of what I said, then I'm talking for free. What's this about? Once in the former SFRY, which had a large number of republics, at the level of the Federation there were some functions and within that, the SFRY was empowered to adopt regulations on the foundations of a system, the foundations of PTT traffic, the basics of working relations, etc. It was similar during the SRJ, at the federal level there were regulations on the basics, and that is the minimum common, if I may say so, the activities that the republics agreed to be on a federal level, because it has a need to be on a federal level, because the federal state was a representative abroad, the republics were not members. After the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia last year, we no longer have any provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that powers the National Assembly, nor do we have any provision that speaks of the competencies of the Republic of Serbia, which would prescribe that the National Assembly adopts some law on the basis of something. See how pointless it would be if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a law on the basis of rail traffic, or passed a law on the basis of working relations. Incompatible. Why? Because the Republic of Serbia is by definition a free state, a state that does not have a member state, is not a Federation and the National Assembly has full capacity to regulate the entire area. If the name of the law, as proposed by the government, were to be maintained, it would be the law on the basis of the regulation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. Then one logical question is whether these security services in the Republic of Serbia have been deployed organisationally and as institutions at different levels. What would it mean in translation? So, we have a community security service, a community security service, a city security service, a county security service, and a circuit security service, then a security service of the province, and only then a service of the security of the Republic. It seems funny, but it's not the situation with us. What's this about? It's just that this is a national security law. It's hard to write it like that in law, that it's a law on one body that couldn't have cover in other laws that regulate this area. What are the other laws? The BIA Act, the law on, I don't know what it's going to be called, probably about the military, where VBA and VOA are predicted, and we had some fourth agency, or service, and she had no rank of special institutions and special organizations, something at the Foreign Ministry, which should ensure the secrecy of the ministry's data and the secrecy of the state's data when she performs abroad. Now there's a problem. How to tie it now and put it under one hat, under one control. Who would have to exercise that control? That's the commander-in-chief. Who's the commander-in-chief? We have two, and to somehow join those two commanders into something that would be one, Dragisic, probably in the image of Milan Markovic, as he is a lecturer with Dragisic for security, they have come to realize that they are going to the system's foundations law and they have immediately entered the legal, logical and any other devastation that they cannot come from. Realising that situation, we have suggested that the title of this law be changed. Respecting this fact that there is no single regulation at the level of the Republic, which would be resolved or arranged by the Security Service. Since there's no willingness in the government, on this side here, and they can solve it, how they can decide -- to pass one law on security services. However, there is another problem. The BIA has been drawn as a special organisation from the MUP and is directly subordinated to the Prime Minister, but military security services and military intelligence cannot be pulled out of the military in a similar way, but are, in practice, an organisational part within a state body called the Ministry of Defence. You see by the very terms, it's in the jurisdiction of the commander-in-chief, the president and his dear godfather, who is the minister of defense. How do you connect it? In this continuing problem how to connect it, so as not to happen, it's not just the case with Serbia, it's the case with a large number of states, that the intelligence services of the same state are spying and following each other, and we are making the situation even more complicated. We also have private services, so we have privatized state services, which is what I have to tell you. So, an absolutely privatized state service, like that part that, within UBPOK, listens, and then we have, if I didn't tell you, that it wouldn't put you in an awkward situation because then you know so much. As those of the democratic bloc came to their senses -- we're going to make a national security advice -- that's where we're going to put everything and everything, but what I'm sure is going to look like horns in a bag. They won't be able to draw any conclusions. Why? Because they don't trust each other. You remember when this government was formed a few months ago, this "yellow" company said -- out of the question while Rade Bulatovic is headed. It was shaking worse for a few days, there was probably some phone conversation and they now forgot about Radet Bulatovic. They only cheer up a few times when I mention it from a congregation pay phone. When I mention Radet Bulatovic, the biggest round of applause comes from the DS. When I mention the Cvetka Kovac, this one here with the army, then the DSS smiles. Someone's forcing us to resolve this facto situation. He is forcing MPs of the National Assembly to pass a regulation by which they will love each other, to take care of each other, and to be on the same task, and the task is the security and security of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who is in power, who is in opposition. As you can see, it's an absolutely impossible mission, but the commander-in-chief of the impossible mission should be a two-headed figure. What's that two-headed figure? Well, one head commands the military, the other commands the civilian part, but one and the other must not fight the privatised and private agencies involved in this business. Last time I drew your attention that in the course of a lawsuit between G17 plus the man who did some services to them, chasing Neda Arneric, chasing some evidence, and chasing these Democrats, he found a lot of dirty laundry for G17 plus. It's usually like that. "By the other pit I dig into it myself." It's an old folk saying. Make sure it's true. How many times have you happened to go after someone and you don't see it, you fall into a hole? This privatized part no one touches. Everyone's pretending they don't know it exists. The other day, I was joking, when you walk through Andric's wedding, there's an optical shop, in the window and the store is Beba Popovic, with that "tartal" haircut, licked like that, and he's looking at the presidency building. He accepted Srdjan's "just watching you." Is it just like that or something, avaxi etc., that's another thing. Someone needs to answer that question. With the best intentions to help you, not to get the wrong idea of what it would mean -- the basis of the security system, because you're solving the National Security Council here, we've suggested that this law be called the Security Service Act. You can accept this, nothing hurts. It doesn't solve anything, though. That's about what: vote, not vote, you're wrong. You know, it often happens that if you define yourself for and against, you've made a mistake. But it happens even if you're restrained, it's a mistake. Since we don't know how else to fight globalism, you're not some big representatives of globalism, you're the low-level one, etc., but the most effective means of fighting globalism is a joke, it's a joke, a joke at the expense of those who want to rule globally. So, they should be exposed to being so naked, to be funny, to be interesting, to be an inspiration for "Indexes," or for those "Kursads," because when you make fun of them or a joke, that's not rude words, I'll tell you right now, then the audience knows what it's about. Here, today I've tried a little bit here, I hope my colleagues try it, it's a serious subject, you can't solve it, you don't want to solve it, you've found some moduso to tie it up, those horns calm down. I can't keep my horns calm, I'll tell you in advance, but that's so funny. I know it's painful, but there's no other means to fight this situation. So only through humor can it be understood that the situation is serious, and that protagonists and wearers are really funny people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13486	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho. Otherwise, I am informing the MPs that, in accordance with Article 85, the National Assembly will continue its work after 1800 hours, until the end of the agenda, and after that we would organise a day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I think this is unserious because it is not a minister here and I have no one to talk to, but assuming Mr. Markovic was preparing to be a minister of justice, not local self-government, I can also understand that he is not interested in this. On the basis of Article 145. I have submitted an amendment to the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure to the proposal for a law on the basis of the organisation of the Republic of Serbia's security services. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted on 8 November 2006, states in Article 3(2) that by 31 December 2007, the President of the National Assembly will call elections for the President of the Republic, or no later than 60 days after the date of entry into force of the last law governing the position and choice of the President of the Republic, as well as defence, Serbia's military, foreign affairs and security services. So my amendment is in accordance with Article 3. Constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution. The amendment also gives strength to the amendment by Mr Zoran Krasic, who proposed that the proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia be changed and said, the proposal for a safety service law, which is the most correct one at the moment. Namely, Article 1. The bill could remain so if the state of Serbia was organised as a federal state, but since it did not, then Article 1 of this law is contrary to the constitutional law. In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why my amendment is not accepted, "Amendment is not accepted, given that law-making is necessary to regulate the basics of the security service system and Article 1. The draft law determines the subject matter of regulation. '"It is true that by my amendment I suggest that Article 1 be deleted. The draft law governing the subject matter of the law and most of it appears to be a member of the first of all laws. Since your proposal to call the law in Article 1 is contrary to the Constitutional Law, I had to propose to delete the member, and my colleague Nemanja Sarovic proposed a new, quality, only possible text of Article 1. It's a safety bill. If Mr. Minister were here, I would still suggest he accept this amendment, because he would in some way improve the Security Services Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13488	I thank the People's MP, Suleiman Spah. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Suleiman Spaho explained in detail the amendment he submitted. I would not repeat it, but what I wanted to point out is that it is not understandable for us from the SRS, as it is possible in one provision, first of all in Article 1(2), to provide for and normise a provision that says: "In the Republic of Serbia, the establishment and operation of security services is prohibited beyond the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did you have the opportunity to meet with such a provision and with such a formulation? If that is what the Proposer intended to address in point 2, we believe that this point 2 is possible to rewrite and attribute to each member. I suppose, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it means that no one but the state can establish security services in our country. That is why this provision of attitude 2 is too high and should be deleted. I note that it is possible to add bans to each member, bans, bans that absolutely mean nothing. We believe that this formulation is absolutely unnecessary and superfluous and burdens this member and this norm of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13490	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. Do any of the MPs report for word after this amendment? (No) Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP of the SRS Nemanja Sarovic has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, which suggests that Article 1 paragraph 1 amends and states: "This law regulates the security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia, businesses, powers, mutual co-operation and supervision of the work of the Security Service in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other issues of importance for their work. ''This amendment defines, in accordance with the position of the SRS, the subject matter of this law. What is unacceptable and unclear, this member is prescribed that security services operate on the basis of and within the framework of the Constitution, then laws and other regulations and general acts. However, it is not clear on the basis of which the general rules and legal acts can act, past the Constitution and beyond the law. Beyond the Constitution and beyond the law, no service, especially the Security Service, can act. What's a national security strategy? It's not defined. What is the defence strategy and established security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia? It's not clear, and it's not defined. Therefore, the norm that regulates this matter is absolutely inconclusive, and behind this standard, as proposed, there are numerous abuses that can happen in practice. Especially when it comes to general rules, because the one applying general rules in the framework of the security service in practice will not stick to the constitution, nor the law, which will primarily benefit from what is most acceptable to him, the easiest, and it can always be invoked to general regulations or general rules. That's very problematic. It is in this law, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, absolutely unacceptable and this must be prohibited. It's not about any action where there can be no adverse consequences for the freedoms and rights of citizens behind this and how many abuses can be hidden and very important illegalities that can have far-reaching consequences for democracy and for the security of our citizens can be hidden. To avoid the essence of the law, the one applying this law remains at his will whether it adheres to the law or adheres to the general rules. That's problematic. That's why he needs to be disabled, tied up and said, "No, the service has to abide by the Constitution and the law." This is the key question we insist on. It is not clear, therefore, who is proposing and where the national security strategy and the defence strategy are adopted. From this bill of law, it doesn't stand like this, there's no clear norm that regulates this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the national strategy must be clear, it must be governed by law. This can't be an abstract question, and left to the service, that the service itself appreciates what kind of strategy it will have and what security policy it will lead to. That, therefore, in the opinion of the SRS and in my deep conviction must be specified and regulated by law until perfection, so that no one can manipulate it. What does political neutrality mean when it comes to Article 2(2)? Please, political neutrality, whether it relates to internal political relations or to coalition political relations, or whether we are talking about political neutrality towards the opposition and other political parties, or about political neutrality on the outside. Ladies and gentlemen, we're making a difference. Is this political neutrality internally important to the state, and is this neutrality related to the neutrality of other countries' security services, so on the outside? What does this term mean, let it be explained, we're looking for an explanation. Will they act neutrally against the outside countries and their intelligence services? Our service will they be neutral about foreign intelligence? This neutrality must be developed to perfection, absolute accuracy, as the Roman law prescribes. From Roman days to today, we cannot make a certain standard that must be clear, must have a clear message and must be applicable, that this must be the role of each entity acting under this law. Are we going to have a neutral attitude towards the countries of the European Union, and we will not act on these countries in intelligence? Then maybe we won't go to America either, because you from the current government are looking for NATO entry. You may not be neutral towards Russia, which today and how it helps defend Kosovo and Metohija. I doubt this neutrality, the service should be directed only in the direction of respect for the Constitution and the law. However, ladies and gentlemen, today we live in a very dangerous time that has almost never been more dangerous for Serbia as a state and its people. I ask the question: will we show this neutrality when it comes to sovereignty, territorial integrity, the security of our citizens and territorial integrity, especially in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Are we going to be neutral here too? This security service cannot be neutral, nor should it be a neutral government, nor should any institution in our country be neutral. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had so much in relation to this Article 2 and to the amendment tabled by Mr Nemanja Sarovic. The definition proposed by SRS MP Nemanja Sarovic is also more precise and clearer, set and regulates matter in a very specific, clear and precise way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13492	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13493	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, like my colleagues who are dissatisfied with the content itself, but also with the form of the proposed law that is not in line with, we are deeply convinced by the constitutional law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 concerning the principles of the operation of the Security Service. I believe that, in the very proposal for a law, that is, in the name of the law itself, it is obvious that the law does not meet those constitutional requirements, i.e. it does not correspond to the wording of the Constitutional Law itself. So it is clear that it is necessary that we, in order to hold elections for the President of the Republic, elections at the local level, must adopt a security law. Instead, we got a law on the basics of the security service. Obviously in these two words, this is just a draft of something that we have yet to get, that this is one and that is the incomplete version and that is why it is unacceptable for the SRS. In addition, security services are given here in plural, then it is counted exactly as the services are concerned, and on that side the law is incomplete and it seems to us that the very form of law, which is in 23 members, shows how inconclusive the government and the proposer engages in the process of this matter. And how important it is for us to have more serious control over the security services. On the contrary, there is a public impression today that security services control public and political life in Serbia. There is an impression that there is a black market for information under the control of the Security Service, that these information should depend on the needs of certain political powers, that in this way it is manipulated by public opinion, that personal interests and one's political interests are placed above the interests of the citizens, and that is also a serious reason for the SRS not to accept the draft of this law. It is necessary that, when it comes to security services, a monopoly that exists, which is very often not in the interest of all Serbian citizens and the introduction of a multiple security control system. That, unfortunately, we don't have in the bill of this law. In 21 members, we have a defined National Security Council and the Bureau of Coordination, which is too little to talk about any serious law, too little for the SRS to accept this law. I call on the promoter to urgently supplement this area, because it is of paramount importance that we have much more serious insight into the work of the security service, ahead of this upcoming one, it seems to us, the difficult times in which Serbia will be next year. This is of paramount importance, and this is something that has been running away from for many years, primarily this self-called democratic power since 2000. What she promised by coming to power in 2000, it was the public in the work of security services. We didn't get that today, but we have a much worse situation, we have a security service that is under their control, and that sector needs to be changed urgently, and the legislation itself that follows it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13494	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13495	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Zoran Antic, in front of the SRS, explained the amendment he made. However, what is problematic in this article is attitude 3. Paragraph 3 suggests that members of the security service cannot be members of political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question and ask for that answer: who and in what procedure determines the fact that a member of the Security Service is a member of a political party and how is this determined? Whether this is determined on the basis of a personal statement by members of the security service, that he tells his superior -- I am not a member of any political party, and he is a member of some political party that is in power or opposition party. However, whether this is determined on the basis of a report by all political registered parties and NGOs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that any evidence could be provided that the man is not politically engaged. Let's go to the Constitution, see how the Constitution regulates. Article 21 doesn't predict this. This isn't a constitutional category. If this proposal were to take place and this position 3 in Article 2. The bill adopted as it is, in which case there would be discrimination against people who wanted or could be members of political parties. Pure discrimination. Next, in Article 60. The Constitution also provides for a normised right to work. Why couldn't members of the Security Service, especially operatives or petty officials, be members of political parties? We ask the following question - if they cannot be members of the Security Service as operatives, members of any political party, they are denied constitutional law, as the Constitution provides in Article. 21st and 60th. The next question is: will this principle apply to the directors, the bosses and the chiefs of these security services in our country? Are these members of some political parties who are in the leading positions in the Republic of Serbia, whether it's military or civil security services? There's obviously pure discrimination here. We're not all equal in front of the law. I'm afraid you'll bring in Chief Bia who's not political and party-oriented. I'm shutting that down. I don't trust anyone. A former minister came to the door of the Prime Minister with a high-ranking official at midnight, knocked on his door wishing that high-ranking official would join him into a political party. When that man opened the door, he was stoned when he saw who he had at the door and what his goal was to come to him at midnight. I'm not gonna name him, but I'm saying he's got it and it's not good. That's not good. If they cannot be politically organised and politically active operatives of services or internal affairs, then neither the chiefs nor the ministers nor the heads nor the directors of those services, if we want equality before the Constitution and before the law. I'm saying this because it's never been in practice before. Not now either. Don't trust anyone now, God knows how to convince you, that someone is unbiased or not engaged politically in a political party, and he's the director of a particular security service. Don't trust anyone, because I don't, because whoever put him there and who chooses him must have won his loyalty and his political and party membership. Ladies and gentlemen, when there was a change and the DOS came to power from the service it excluded about 500, even more, members of the Security Service, but that's why over the night the new 300 was admitted. Therefore, this is not the way to view the Security Service. She can't choose sides. She's the State Security Service. She's a pillar of security. In it they must work, as they do, honest, honest and brave men, to resist each and every enemy, both outside and inside the state. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no need to make a difference, no discrimination should be made, we must try and fight that all citizens, as the Constitution in Article. The 21st and the 60th predicts, we are all equal before the law and we do not need to make this discrimination about the Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13496	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. Natasa Jovanovic, a member of the SRS and vice president of the Serbian Parliament, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13497	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when "Sabbe" was famous three years ago, Rade Bulatovic, today's BIA director, did not know if he would survive, what would happen to him after Mamula and Dragan Jocic sought him out for two days. Namely, he and Aco Tomic were put somewhere in a prison facility on Belgrade territory, counterpart Jojic even had some ideas where it could be, as an ex-cop, where those from the DS, Djindjic's regime, could begin to deal with Kostunica's people, and you see, he's as a DSS member today, for four years now, the BIA director. If you pass this law, and obviously you will, as far as I can tell you, you have a day to vote tonight, then let's tell him from the assembly pay phone that he has to resign from BIA's post. How is a member of the DSS going to be director of the BIA? How do I know who of his associates has the membership card of this or that political party, because from the five-octobaric coup we refer to, as the Security Service changed, as far as Mijatovic and Petrovic were concerned first, and then this Zivulovic, as the second, Mr. Shormaz, his superiors, to Radeta Bulatovic, were all closely connected to one of the parties in power and are all members of the political party. What's worrying is that you put such an imperative into a member of the law, and you have information, I'm not going to tell you what number it is, because it's still a domain of state secrets, but what I can tell you and what BIA Director himself said at the Committee's session, the service itself, if we're just talking about BIA isn't filled out enough. It's not because it doesn't, it's a sensitive job. To do such a job, first of all you have to be, only if you're not, what our people would say, is that you're building up some political party, if you're a serious person in a country where you care about the security of the state, you have to be trained and trained for that job, and you have steel nerves, and you make sure you never make any failures that will cost a state or an individual tomorrow, by misjudged, even if you're working on some peripheral operational business. All that when it pours and comes across one channel to one that decides on people's fates or takes some steps towards the security of the state, these are sensitive things. We asked the question - why is that? There's not enough trained and high-quality personnel in the country yet, and when it's due to get to the level where, first of all, younger people, it's probably that kind of intensity, to get involved in that job, because they have to do it, so specific as it is, quality for a few decades, to say 20 years, I guess these people start from when they get into that job, that at least they're going to do it so much. Now you're going to think - who is one of those people who's applying to a competition member of the political party or not. I had almost a case of a young gentleman from Leskovac. He had completed almost the highest degree of security school, and his desire was to work in the ministry, since it was also his family heirloom, since his father too spent a lifetime in the ministry. But he is not like him, because they speculate on which political parties he is from. He said, as you said, by law, he's not from any. They say -- and why aren't you with the DSS or not with the DS? When someone is interested, and a young man, who has graduated from school for the area to work in the Security Service, in particular in the BIA, does not get from the environment in which he lives, because, you know, there is no security department in every center of the administrative district, he does not get a positive recommendation for those in Belgrade who decide because he is not a member of any political party, and neither was his father a member of any political party. Then you have to decide what you're going to do. Are you going to call people and distract them, because the Service isn't filled, and that percentage should be in some way worrying, or are you going to say -- here, the pro-forms we're going to do to write the law, and we're actually going to replace the furniture in the Security Service as the government comes? Now let me ask you. If these were the people who were responsible -- so that's how work is arranged, and that's how the job is done in the Security Service, specifically in Bia, four furniture, this is the fourth set from October 5th to today? What country does he have that in? So, every political one, so you jump into your own mouth, every political set or every new coalition has led to people changing at the head of the BIA -- what are we talking about here? It's completely pointless to have such a member of the law. I guess the basic thing is that someone knows they're doing the job, doing the job according to the law, and not as he says, go work for this one, spy on this one, or what I know, that I don't banalize things, start by providing exclusive material for the cover of certain newspapers, Sundays that garner money or have a deal over channels or services. So it's pointless for you to write laws like this. Secondly, here I am ending Mr. Mrkonjic, it is unacceptable to define this termologically the title of the law that means nothing. That's what Mr. Krasic was talking about. What security services? Now you will see, in the next amendment, Article 3 says, they are part of a single security system. How unique is he when we do not have for each of these services a single law that regulates what they do? We don't even know how they coordinate with each other. We, as the Assembly Committee for Defence and Security, are merely controlling the work of the BIA, and what about other services? You're pulling your head, but where are these others, now after this? Who's been controlling it so far? Ask people in the former Federal Assembly if they had a chance to get them the Director of the Military Security Agency to file a report - no. So we have a vacuum seven years ago. He was doing what he wanted. This information and national security went to some channels or to some individuals who benefited greatly from it, leaked in such a way, as the service was dug out from all sides. Therefore, we must have first serious laws and define for each of the security services what it does, in order to talk at all about seriousness in this regard. You say, and for me, it's a more serious question that I asked at the Committee's session. It's been eight days, it's been eight days, and no one's answered me about the spy activities, or listening devices he has or doesn't have, I have information that they have a brother from the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, a certain Ranko Tadic. If the service hasn't responded to me today, and BIA director said he would let me know if his uncle's brother has devices that are listening to political inexperiences from the president's building, which is from another private place, or a place that he has at the sports center "May 25" - then I don't know what to talk to people about next time they come from the BIA. So, it's mine to make some information, if I want to, and my conscience and morale tell me to check it out with people who need to do it properly. It's been a month, and they think I was joking. No, I wasn't kidding, I was asking for a specific person and I put him in touch with the President of the Republic. And to this day, I didn't get an answer. You know, highly sophisticated listening equipment, besides you DS have this experience with Janjusevic, is available to anyone who has the money to buy it. I have no doubt that Tadic's clan has money for it, but it would finally be the turn, before he resigns, to have Rade Bulatovic answer me that question. He'll have to endure because the law here from tonight will bind him -- he's a member of the political party and he can't be BIA's director anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13498	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13499	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Let's remind ourselves once more of what it says in Article 2. The bill: "The security services operate within the framework and based on the Constitution, law, other regulations and other acts, national security strategy, national defence and established security-intelligence policies of the Republic of Serbia. Security officers are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. Security personnel cannot be members of political parties. "You could say that this article was written by amateurs, and I don't believe it. Because the service has joined some of your parties and that's a long time ago. Now, of course, they're doing their job. However, some have changed the employer in the meantime, and some have not. If this member were to be applied literally, or the service would have run out of information, or some of you would have lost important members and activists. So one thing is what the law says, and another thing is how the service works subtlely -- whether it's for one party or another, it's only he knows in his heart. No membership cards guarantee that he will be politically neutral or that he will be politically engaged for one or more political parties at the same time, as it normally happens, we have had the opportunity to see. Here in the last position it is said precisely - members of the Security Service are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations and general acts according to the rules of the profession impartially and politically neutrally. That would be good if it were possible, but unfortunately, it's not. The basic assumption that someone is exercising power is that they have exclusive information of a scale and structure different from what can be read in the daily press. If one government doesn't have that kind of information, it's not a serious government. That's how every government in the world works, and I guess that's how the government in the Republic of Serbia works. That's why this member was tasked only to be a smoke screen for the subtle treatment of our country's security services, and that's usually true of every security service in the world. So we can wipe this out. We can add new members, the service, it's one trade, which is perfected in accordance with technological and other development, in line with the knowledge that members of the service have from education and other education, but objectively, all services have one system of work that is completely beyond what the law says. The law is a framework that should, in a sense, prevent abuses, give authority to the congregation committee, sort of settle some issues. Otherwise, I don't have a dilemma about how data is collected, I don't even have a dilemma about them saying it on the assembly board, whether it's open or closed, unfortunately, but I already have full confidence that the service will work in line with the tasks of the authorities that the government puts before the service. In which often, when it comes to security services, it refers exclusively to the part of the job that has to do with the alleged monitoring of political insinuators, their listening or similar affairs. It's not like that. The service can also do that, and probably works, hopefully, by the authority of the authorities. But services deal with other issues, especially in the area of human trafficking, in the area of drug trafficking, narcotics, in the area of the most serious crimes, terrorism, etc. So I'm saying this because sometimes you might get the impression that we don't really understand what these services are doing. Of course, as MPs, the most important part is this part I spoke about and of course it would be the most important, if possible, to ensure the impartiality and political neutrality of security employees. It's possible, over time, it'll be raised to a higher level. Today, I must say, in our country as well as in other countries, service is mostly a service of government. That doesn't have to be bad, but it would be bad if we didn't know that. So, we could respect the amendment of counterpart Zoran Antic and accept that article 2 is deleted. But nothing significant would happen. The services would still function as they do now. Those who are formally members of one party would continue to do so informally. In principle, let's when we pass a new law on political parties... Excuse me, Mr. President, are you having a chat with the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13500	No, I don't. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13501	I'd like to ask, if possible, that chat to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13502	Go ahead, go ahead, move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13503	I'm talking about a very serious subject and I'm asking the Vice-President of the Security Committee to respect what I'm saying, because I'm talking, among other things, about a party that is responsible for the security service.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13504	I'm joining the plea to hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13505	Also, it would be normal if we wanted it to remain such a member in force, that the Political Party Act obliges that information on all its members be available on its websites. Then this would make sense. Of course, and then we wouldn't all be there, but some would be secret members, and some would be public, if we weren't playing cat and mouse. It's just that this exists as one system. We understand that system. What I can say on behalf of the SPS, we will try to make sure that this develops in the best possible way in the direction of civil control over all the security services, to the extent that we are capable and to the extent that the government is prepared for this control under this law and the Constitution to be subject to. I end up, I have no illusion that this will be possible in both our countries and other countries, because if it is completely transparent, if these services are a completely transparent budget and if everything they do is transparent, then it should be some bureau for overing certain acts of personal nature, not services dealing with subtle business and thus ensuring that the state functions normally. We will be tough opponents if the services abuse their position and if we find that they do so for the expense of one or more political parties, to the detriment of other parties. We remain confident that they do not, although we cannot always be absolutely sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13506	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the principles of the operation of the security service. For the sake of the public, I will read the bill, which says in Article 2: "The security services operate on the basis of both the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the established security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia. Security officers are required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. Security personnel cannot be members of political parties. "The draft law in Article 2 speaks of principles. However, in this article's proposal, I do not see any principles. We can say that perhaps it is the principle of constitutionality and legality in the functioning of the Security Service and members of the Security Service, until I see other principles, they are not clearly and decoded normised and presented in this article. Article 2 says security services operate on the basis and within the framework of the Constitution. I'm asking the motionor, what does the Constitution mean? Who set the frameworks of the Constitution? Does anyone have the right to set constitutional frameworks? Does this also apply to frameworks in laws, in other regulations and general acts? In paragraph 2, it is said - members of the Security Service are required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts. A completely different legal termology. It says that security services must operate on the basis of and within the framework of the Constitution, and here it says, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the other regulations, etc. Inexplicable, incomplete, arbitrary, etc. Furthermore, it is said in recital 2 that members of the security service act impartially. What does impartially mean? To whom impartially? By position, by opposition? The parallel is biased and unbiased. Competence to the neighbor, and impartially to whom? Further, politically neutral. What does political neutrality mean? By whom neutral? Voluntary, vague, etc. In view of what we see in the draft law, the amendment of the SRS has come in itself, the amendment is necessary to improve the text in a normative and legal sense, functional, logical and operational sense. The amendment is this: ''The Security Services, based on national security policy and strategy, carry out professional protection tasks by the Constitution of established order, security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution and the law of human rights and freedoms established, as well as other state interests of the Republic of Serbia. ''Stav 2: ''In the performance of the 1st position of this member of the Security Service, they collect, analyze, assess, use, store and supply data that are of importance to the security of the Republic of Serbia. ''The third word "members" is replaced by the words "selected officials". On this amendment, the Government gave an explanation, saying, "Amendment is not accepted. The adoption of this amendment in the text of the bill would remove the provisions guaranteeing that security services operate on the basis of both the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the established security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia, and that members of the Security Service are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally. Therefore, the provisions of Article 2(2). 1st and 2nd. The bill is the cornerstone of the democratic arrangement of the security service. '"What you could have gotten out of that was the foundation of a democratic arrangement of the security service in this article that was extremely unclear. I think this argument of the government was written just to write something. It's flat, vague, non-stop, etc. We need to deal with a very important issue here, which is a matter of national security strategy. We don't have it, unfortunately we don't have it. Why don't we have it? We don't have it because of political volunteering, the arbitraryness of those who perform these functions. It's the easiest thing for us to do when we don't have the frameworks that you mentioned here, but not constitutional frameworks, not legal frameworks, but the frameworks that the national security strategy would give, without it not a single organised democratic, civilised state can exist. Political volunteerism is present here that allows leaders in those services to do what they want. They're out of control. We've provided many laws for control, including security control, but we don't have it objectively. Why? First of all, I'm a member of the Defence and Security Committee and I'll just say that we've received a report from Bija in six or seven months, and we haven't received any other reports. What kind of civilian control is this? What kind of congregation security control is this? None, we don't have it, and we have to get out of it. If we had a national strategy, if we had clear rules of conduct, if we had the objectives of this strategy, then we could also control, monitor, and not any political volunteerism. Since the minister is here, I will conclude on the reasons for this amendment, so I will ask the minister, since it is in one part the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Self-Government. It is an initiative that I launched, together with the government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in persecution, which concerns the revision of all sales contracts and the swap agreement between Serbs and Croats in the period from 1991 to 1995, resulting from political persecution, because of genocide and ethnic cleansing, because of fears of retribution. Then both Serbs, and Croats, and especially Serbs in 95% of cases, were selling their property. We designed this initiative to create the basic rules of this revision. We can carry out this revision on the basis of international acts, the General Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We have the basis of an agreement signed by all the former Yugoslav states, that is, the 2001 Succession Agreement, the G Annex, which refers to private property and rights acquired, in Article 2, says that all those procedures that were under pressure after 31 December 1990, or the cause of the war, that they are void and that they are subject to review. We have a legal basis and we have to do it. Minister, you're going to have to answer this, it's my parliamentary question, it's one initiative, you have jurisdiction, you have international regulations, you have a regulation that applies to all the former Yugoslav states. I think it's our obligation and that we will correct the historical injustice against all those who have lost part of their property or who have lost all their property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13508	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13509	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, whatever this is not your narrow specialty, but wider, but well, there are some things you might explain, also regarding this bill and individual members. Mr. Buha was trying to convince you to accept this amendment, because we understand, that's where Mr. Sutanovac should sit, but now he's organizing a transport to Arena, so Dad won't be there alone, and I expect you to join. It's probably gonna be with the best man at the end, and if he sings one, it's not a big deal. Mr. Minister, but you have to admit that security services operate on the basis of and within the framework of the Constitution, the law, etc. So what it says -- in the framework of the Constitution, in a way that we're not lawyers, we're not exactly experts, to explain to us what the writer was going to say, so possibly some things and some actions might be clearer when it comes to our security services and how they function. It may be these constitutional frameworks that we can understand, especially when it comes to families of the Hague indictees or those on the warrants. I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to tell us if that's within the Constitution, within the law, is that respect for human rights and freedom, that just because someone's brother, aunt, son, son, wife, is he automatically suspended from all rights? As I recall, the first of some written legal acts is about Hamurabi, I guess five thousand years before the new era, there's about one of those clay plates that says that no one is responsible for the crime committed by anyone else and that no one has the right to punish a relative or any of the compatriots for committing a crime. We are unfortunately witnesses that our security services, in the most drastic way, for political reasons, and these political reasons that are not related to our country, not even to political parties, which is even more difficult, are making harmful moves for them themselves. But they are simply forced by those who practically occupied complete Serbia, in fact KIM, but thanks to other services they installed within our country, we are de facto under occupation, but we are in a worse position than we are really occupied. If we were occupied, they'd have to do this job or pay our people to do it, but they'd have to answer for all the failures, illegal jobs they do, human rights violations and freedoms, and this way they're completely abolized. It's just, they say, we don't do it, it's what your security services do. You had almost the opportunity to be informed through public information funds, as well as directly from the SRS MPs that the entire haika was being taken to Ratko Mladic's family. His son no longer knows how to survive. Darko Mladić, a man who has his family, two children, is trying, like all of us, to survive working. He doesn't work at any state firm, he has a small company, he does business in a legitimate way, but you're going to destroy him completely, you're sending him an inspection, you're going to his business partners, you're asking him to cancel his jobs. There's an even more drastic example of violating his rights. Security officers, or Beja, are bringing him in. We ask a parliamentary question -- on the basis of which the law, a member, which is why they brought Darko Mladic in, and they deceive both the lie and the public and the MPs, say he has come voluntarily for an informative conversation. I assume you heard that famous folk, that he dropped his noble soul in the presence of power. When two or three of them come to you in leather jackets, do you think they're going voluntarily? No, they just bring him in. That's not enough for them either, but they waited for his wife outside the entrance to the company she works in and brought her in for an informative conversation. It is amazing to which limits you degrade our country and to which borders you have trampled on human rights and freedoms of people who are only relatives of those who are being accused by the UN tribunal, otherwise, the people enjoy an extremely great reputation, because Serbian heroes, they defended the Serb enemy, carried out their patriotic and their commitment because they are members of the army. You have, Mr. Minister, the case of Milena Ivanovic, whose son was also arrested, who, as a mother, was brought to informative talks and was asked to betray his son, to confirm that they were hiding Ratko Mladic in his house. Unfortunately, a woman passed away a month ago. These are the things that lead our service to absurdity. We'd better not have that kind of service. What do we need it for? And this is how Americans sit at the General Staff, not just Americans, all in a row, in every ministry. I don't know how many of them are sitting in your ministry, but every ministry sits or members of MI-6, or the CIA, or the GNI, simply all the Western intelligence services. It would be better if we didn't have this kind of security service at all, we wouldn't have to allocate this kind of funds. Well, neither James Bond would have helped you, because the one you have seems to have packed up all the data that the service had and took to Washington. That's the problem you're facing, that's our country. That's why I don't think we need this kind of service, and that by this law, we will in no way be in a position to get a service that will work for the benefit of this country and the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13510	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The SRS parliamentary group has spent its time on this amendment. We're moving on to the next amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, the MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, submitted. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP of the SRS, Dr. Pai Momchilov, has tabled an amendment to Article 3 proposing that this member be deleted. Deleting is proposed because it's Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. However, ladies and gentlemen, what I would particularly like to emphasise about the provisions and contents of this article, in the proposal of Article 3, the Proposer proposes to the National Assembly that such a member be adopted, that security services, as part of the single security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia, act. To consider a matter of importance for national security, a National Security Council, a single body, is established, and this law is specifically governed by the Council's affairs of importance for coordinating and directing the work of the Security Service. However, what is problematic, for operational coordination of the work of the Security Service, is established the Bureau for the Co-ordination of the work of the Security Service (hereinafter referred to as the Coordination Bureau). However, ladies and gentlemen, this member is absolutely impeccable, confusing and in this article you see the presence of many midwives, and where there are many midwives, you know what is born. This article, ladies and gentlemen, produces bureaucracy. What do you mean, according to Article 3? The bill, the National Assembly, oversees the work of the Council and the work of the Security Service? From practice, I am in the second session of the Security Committee, I can tell you, practically, the Serbian Parliament has no real and fundamental control over the work of the Security Service. It all comes down to the submission of one brother-in-law, general report by the chief or director of those services. What you can see and read in that report, you can read it in the daily newspaper: "Politika", "Kurir", "Blic" etc. It is evident that the Assembly has no supervision from the very report that the BIA recently submitted to the Serbian Parliament's Defence and Security Committee. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, what is problematic in this article says: "The work of security is under the supervision of the National Assembly... "What kind of surveillance is that? In what way does the National Assembly control the ministry? Does it enter the premises where operations are done, whether archives and files are opened? No, I don't. Do you know who the O.R.'s running against? No, I don't. Does the National Assembly know who's listening? He doesn't know. Is the Assembly being followed? No, I don't. Who's being secretly recorded? He doesn't know. Who's listening to the rooms? No, I don't. Who's got the car tapped? No, I don't. Therefore, we cannot say that the National Assembly is overseeing the security services. It is absolutely unacceptable and it is not in practice implemented. So this is the key question. Ladies and gentlemen, some remember, but I would remind you of 1966. That's the year the DB burned and burned. It was out of control and state authorities, and parliament, and the President of the Republic, and all institutions, and the SIV Security Committee, then, because it was the SFRY. When that conflict broke out and that case with Czechoslovakia in 68, the wagons destroyed archives, in all the regional secretariats, in all the departments of the interior of the D.B. by the secretariats and districts. In order for that to not happen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this service must not be allowed to get out of control and that this service must account for parliament, and if you allow the Bureau for coordination and operational work to be formed in that service, please have again the bureau in which Beba Popovic was an alpha and omega. It can't be the Bureau. What's the Bureau gonna do about the operations? If there is a National Security Council Office, the Bureau will be the strongest operational body, and it will include intelligence and operational policies. In the bureau, you'll have those that count even red and white blood cells. That's what I'm telling you as a man who knows that service. We now have the current power, and tomorrow the second power comes, and later the next power comes. The way that service works, let's open the file and the operating archives. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen, if there are those with a covert identity and in this House, let's see who's from which structure and from which political party was an intelligence associate and intelligence officer for American, who for English, and who for other American, English and especially German service. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all suspicious, and all when someone gets away from the Constitution is very problematic and suspicious. That is why this service must be under strong control. I cannot now accuse this service of currently performing certain operational tasks against it and that, but there are all possibilities for that. Please, when the "Sabre" action was, ladies and gentlemen, you know that 12 and a half thousand people were arrested and how many were accused and how many were convicted. We cannot allow such a time to return to our premises. When it comes to the public, let's see what it looks like. It's not clear what the public is? Is it public that this service will have to account for NGOs? Why are provisions provided for in this article, and in law, please, organizations? Whether it will require the security service to submit accounts and reports to Natashi Kandic, Sonji Biserko, Sonji Licht, Biljana Kovacevic and their other society. Ladies and gentlemen, our service must not do that. Because of Gog, that public cannot be defined in this law. Furthermore, it is very important that I show you what will happen and what can happen. The public may also be the US ambassador or third secretary at the embassy, and it is clear what the third secretary at the US Embassy is doing today in Belgrade. I ask the question of the Serbian government to answer me, as it is regulated in parallel law, let's see how it's regulated in France, in America, in Germany, in England, in Wales, in Holland, in Belgium, Russia, to see if the CIA reports this way and informs the public of its actions. Will the CIA allow someone there by Natasha Kandic, or Sonja Biserko, to get a report and get to know that data. Never, absolutely never. You see, this bill opens up the possibility. If we tell the public, Natasa Kandic will call Radet Bulatovic tomorrow and say, in the law that you have passed I have the right, because you have regulated that the public must be informed. That public is also the humanitarian law fund, and she says, I'm looking for information that you have operational data according to which state or anyone in this country. When it comes to the public, informing citizens, I would remind you and ask you a question, did the English Intelligence Service inform its public about the kidnapping of the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, and the role of their service in the arrest and kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic? It's not, of course, nor will it ever be notified. Under this law, there is an opportunity to inform some public. Now, that public is exactly what I was talking about. I said just now, open the archives, ladies and gentlemen, and you'll see what the situation is, the files and archives, and then you'll see which one of the zombies was in where the intelligence service came from. That's what, Mr. Minister, is very problematic. When a law is passed, good safety laws should be passed. We advocate that our state and our service be very strong, and that we do not allow enemies to excavate and excavate, re-orient everything that is most valuable in Serbia, and that they accuse and deliver to The Hague tribunal, which is absolutely anti-Serbian, along with America, which kidnaps Serbia Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13512	Thank you. The word is by MP Bozidar Delic, then MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to draw attention to a few views, after all, from Articles 3 and 2, although this also appears later when it comes to congregation security control. In Article 2, Mr. Minister, since you are following most of these laws here, I can tell you that there is a certain misunderstanding present, not to say the illiteracy of those who wrote this article. A national security strategy, a defence strategy or a policy, or I should also say a security-intelligence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, these are very important documents, Mr. Minister. The documents should be adopted by the Serbian Parliament. These are documents that have legal power, they are right behind the Constitution, and they should be in front of some other regulations and general acts adopted by the Government or adopted by a minister. If you remember, gentlemen, a few months ago, an interview with the current Chief of Staff when he was talking about military reform. He said on that occasion: we don't have a defence strategy, we made some draft, we needed the Assembly to bring it in, and again we felt like MPs were called, but, since they didn't bring a defence strategy, we were going into reform of the army. Gentlemen, my colleague spoke of amateurism, volunteerism present today in the state. The strategy of any, or national security strategy, is a political-philosophy idea that gives the foundations and extends the foundations provided by the Constitution. How will we control these services as representatives of the Defence and Security Committee? How do we do that when we don't have those strategies, one or the other? We should just say, gentlemen, we can't go any further with these laws, because you're asking us to control you for something that doesn't exist, you're asking us to control your legitimate work, but your work is simply not legal. Although I accept that we as the Assembly have one responsibility, we should ask that a national security strategy be put on the agenda. Or that this assembly determines the intelligence and security policy of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, many of the things we talk about are absolutely pointless without it. Any strategy should be followed by further operationalisation. There's a doctrine and then it goes to those lowest rules of every service. When it comes to the army, the rules of the army. All of this is determined right through a strategy based on the Constitution and the law. If we don't have a strategy as some kind of binding element, we have one gap between the Constitution and the law and everything that needs to follow, that service or that state institution. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you discuss this at the level of the government, because when each of the next laws comes, we from the SRS will ask you what about the national strategy, the defence strategy or what about the intelligence and security policy, which should also be established by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13514	The word has Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13515	Dear colleagues, I think that Article 3 in paragraphs 3 and 4 is a bit of a problem in the formulation itself, and even if the text of the law, i.e. the competence of the National Security Council, and the very fact that a desk should be introduced that should coordinate the work of these services, is, in my opinion, controversial. Why? Article 3 paragraph 3 states: ''For operational coordination of the work of the Security Service, a Bureau for the coordination of the work of the Security Service shall be established (hereinafter referred to as the Office for Coordination). I don't understand this until the end. In doing so, the Bureau of Co-ordination is defined in Article 11, where the Bureau's powers are being spoken of, it turns out that there are the heads of intelligence, plus the secretary of council, and then it turns out they're coordinating something here. Since it has already been built into the National Security Council, which I think is also as controversial as it is, then the question of who is actually controlling who, why is a lower-ranked body being created. Or to be clear, I don't understand why we haven't thought about forming a roof security service. What would that mean? That we have one security service that's a hat on the rest of the security services. It would also serve to control work, and to combine information, so you would also have a mechanism of coordination, and a mechanism of control. The work of the Security Service is under the supervision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council and the public. 'Scuse me, please, how will it deal with the supervision of these services of the one who runs them? So, these services, as far as I can see, are being managed by the president of the state, which I think is disputed, by the Prime Minister, which is not disputed. It is not the president of the state who is disputed in itself but who already has great powers in the domain of defence and in position. You can talk about it, we're just implying it. So, the National Security Council, it also runs in general. This isn't any attack on Boris, maybe Boris won't be president in the next election, maybe it'll be Ivica Dacic from the SPS. Why do you guys keep making out whether it's Boris or Tom? Maybe there's a surprise, I don't know. I'm talking about the president here, don't keep talking about how only you have people worthy of Serbia, there are others. Maybe he just needs to give them a chance, so in Serbia, it would be better. What would be wrong with some good socialist? Here, I call on the citizens to think without you throwing it away. Who's your candidate? ( b) What does it matter to you? You're not going to vote, are you? It'll be either Hansel Dacic or someone next to him. What are you worried about? You're very interested in him, aren't you? I'm sorry your president is in The Hague, otherwise he'd certainly be a good candidate. Mr. Todorovic, you took one 40-50 seconds without any need. Don't worry, our party has perfect order, as well as yours. Thank you for your comments. Those questions we were asked at the 7th convention, we don't have any more problems. In my opinion, then, it is disputed that the work of the Security Service is controlled by those who manage them. I don't know if I should answer it afterwards or say it now, Mr. Chairman, I think the head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic, no matter who it is, gets an inappropriately large role. I know there's a chief of staff who's become too powerful in our society, but one, I don't know if we should produce the other. It would be awkward in relationships like this. They don't have to be the first people to reach the Prime Minister or the President of the State to be so powerful. I don't think that's good, whether you've established it in law or not. Furthermore, when you connect all of this, what would be my political comment, this can remain this way, to understand each other, and what's my political comment on this is that there is no trust in the ruling coalition. This system is set up like this for reasons that obviously DSS and DSS cannot fully agree on how to control and manage security services. It only concludes that both are afraid that the mechanism should be systematised in the right way, because whoever has this mechanism in the right way should probably work for the state rather than work for the party. It's the essence of things, in my opinion. I'm not interested in what these people are called, I'm interested in making this mechanism effective. It's the essence of things. So, again, we have one not very common, I just don't want to be any malice, not a malignant, I'm trying to be perfectly correct, one unusual solution, where you have a Council composed practically of the Director, Chief of Staff, Prime Minister, President of the Republic, coordinated by the President's Chief of Staff. And we have the Bureau, which again makes up another secretary, or that secretary, and makes up the heads of intelligence that are set up one way or another, because their appointment and the proposal for their appointment are also decided by the same body, or the Security Council, to discuss the government's proposal. Therefore, it is not good that in the arrangement of such an important sector, such as the intelligence sector, certain things are re-solved by a political settlement, and solutions are being extorted from a system of establishing mutual trust, not that they are maximumly effective. A few things, so I don't answer again. Our services have been restored. They not only have little money and very often wrong political tasks, and I don't mean listening, but their internal tasks, in terms of general security in Kosovo and Metohija, in Republika Srpska, Hungary, Germany, Washington, although I see that there is no mention of a SIV intelligence service here, which is part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although their representatives may be invited to meetings, I don't know why this service is not included in the law if it exists, it's also a intelligence service. We need to see, and here I agree with my colleague Delic, who was truly brilliant today in exposing around The Hague tribunal, and I congratulate you on that presentation, and for being there and for standing behind your colleagues as opposed to this state, so I don't understand why this isn't arranged to the end. We've got experienced officers, we've got experienced intelligence, they've rejuvenated them a little bit, they've solved them a little bit, there's little politics. I'm just going to give an example of, say, the Czech Maltene 100 percent removed its intelligence structure to make it seem like 80% back to me today. You know, it's not easy to make real intelligence, it's not easy to make real contacts. Which country is breaking up, in a political sense, just to show some kind of democracy? These are people who are professionals whose goal should be to work for the state. Not for the President of the State, not for the Prime Minister, but for the State. If the Prime Minister and the President of the State, or any minister, or any politician, starting with me first, and all others you mentioned here, is working against the State, it should fit the Constitution and the law, not that his service should be subordinated. So here some things are obviously a little illogical and they are a reflection of mistrust in the ruling coalition. I suggest, when we discuss the budget, we make sure that for these services, at least the official part, is not enough money. There's so much money you can't do seriously. On the other hand, it is not possible to form congregation control that would now enter some security funding systems that all countries of the world have, and I don't mean any drugs, or any human trafficking, or anything like that. We should consider allowing our services to work with enough money, not against the law, but the way all countries of the world do. I don't know any service in the world that doesn't have any extra income. This should not be drugs, as it may have been in certain situations, but there should be ways to help the work of these services and ways to help the work of real lobbyists, for the interests of the Serbian state and citizens living in the world. You can't write it all in one law, but that's why a responsible authority who knows what it wants, who knows what the tasks of this service are that would come from a strategy that needs to be written, that authority would know these things right. Among other things, I think that one of the tasks of the Security Service Council, in addition to intelligence assessments, should be evaluations that these structures in the world can be useful to the state of Serbia and lobbying for its interests, e.g. except that we are dealing with some challenges, let's say we agree on this -- which would be Serbia's lobbyists in the world, and I think that would only benefit us. It used to be an old intelligence service and how it had its checkpoints in all the major states of the world. I'm not sure that today our intelligence officers at the embassy, if we speak openly, or those in charge of security, are doing their job properly today and in a manner appropriate. I don't want to talk about human policy in the security services themselves. I have to say, there's a website that people can apply to, and I think there's been some repairs in the way people choose to work for the service. Just to avoid what we're looking at as a party solution, maybe in a year or two, we'll actually bring services to what level the state of Serbia would require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13516	Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government, the Committee on Defence and Security and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13517	Thank you, Mr. Bajatovic, for saying so quite frankly that you are convinced that the president of our party is here to be the best candidate for president. I can assure you that he, like all of us and most Serbian citizens, is convinced that Tomislav Nikolic is the best candidate in his absence and that he will undisputedly be the president of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the amendment to Article 3. The draft law, in the position of Article 3, provides: 'The work of the Security Service is under the supervision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council and the public. "The amendment I have submitted predicts that the work of the Security Service is under the supervision of only the National Assembly. Everything else is either unconstitutional, or unnecessary, or hypocritical. The President of the Republic doesn't have that jurisdiction, the Government of the Republic has our jurisdiction, the National Security Council doesn't have that jurisdiction, the public, it's really hypocritical. You, ladies and gentlemen, have tried to keep the Security Committee behind closed doors and while the MPs of the SRS, members of that board, have not stopped it, you and those committees have kept you away from the eyes of the public. I don't know how you think you're capable, or that you're willing to put the service under the public eye. I see that the committee in charge has accepted some amendment similar to this amendment of mine, but it is not the same, where, among other things, it is said that democratic civilian control is responsible for the work of the service. I really don't know what that means. I know what the public means, and I know you don't do anything in front of the public. You've shown this multiple times, not only at board meetings, but through government work, through the work of the government, we, unfortunately, are mostly familiar with what the government has done or what it is preparing to do. We heard a few days ago from Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic that even the strategy on Kosovo and Metohija, which some ministries, or all ministries, have, we do not know, prepared, is a state secret. And that's something that's amazing, that our citizens in KIM don't know what to do, what the state is going to do, what they're about to do. That's what Vuk Jeremic knows, knows the government of the Republic of Serbia, knows the President of the Republic and no one has to know anymore. That's your so-called. transparency, as you like to say. I remind you, the MPs have spoken about it these days, not today, when counterpart Petar Jojic asked Mr. Radet Bulatovic if the MPs were listening, he said - as far as I know, not right now. So, just a moment ago -- yes, in the next moment -- yes, but just according to his information -- not right now. The particular question is -- how did Rade Bulatovic stay at the head of the BIA, when it was known what inter-party agreements were, is again the continuation of that story from earlier on, whether service officials should and whether they could be party members, and then there was a war between DS and DSS. The condition of an agreement and the formation of the government was that Rade Bulatovic could no longer be headed by the BIA, or his survival at the post was limited by the DS to two months. It's been six months, he's still doing the job. Why? Because he promised Carla del Ponte that he would find and arrest Ratko Mladic, because he participated in the shamefully calling of a reward for whoever shows them the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Stojan Zupljanin and Goran Hadzic. So much for how much you really stick to what is written in the Law or what you think you're fooling Serbian citizens because you're going to write something bombically in the paper, or some minister who's interested in the work of the National Assembly, so listens to the MPs, Mr. Milan Markovic, and doesn't talk to his party colleagues. Then you think that the citizens of Serbia should trust you and remain mistaken that that's what you say. How can you talk to the public about the work of these services when we know that, say, Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister, for one of his associates, one of the commissions, took an associate of Goran Svilanovic, under Socrates' pseudonym. So these people are working on high state functions in the middle of the government, as a result of the presidency. You are then trying to explain to us that the amendment cannot be accepted, because, you say that 'the work of the Security Service can not only be under the supervision of the National Assembly, but also the public who, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, has the right to know and be informed. Also, the constitutional principle is that the government is directing and coordinating the work of the government authorities and overseeing their work, i.e. performing other tasks in accordance with the law. '" Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know this and I'm making it clear that this argument has nothing to do with the amendment I've submitted. Administrative surveillance is something completely different from what is the essence of the amendment. ''At the same time, the National Security Council shall monitor the extent to which it shall result from Article 5. The bill (i.e. to the extent that this council requires Carla del Ponte, not to lie), the President of the Republic may draw his jurisdiction in the area of supervision on two grounds - as commander of the Army of Serbia, within the meaning of Article 112(2). The Constitution, and as a member of the National Security Council. '"This argument is, to the most beautiful dictionary, insolent. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we're not stupid. We know perfectly how the government works, how the services function, how the Office of the President of the Republic works, and we know perfectly why we have submitted this amendment, because the National Assembly is the only one who can control the work of the service, and none of the ones you have proposed in the law has any authority, no basis in the Constitution or in any other law. I repeat, your public-controlled story, tie the cat to the tail. You don't show anything to the public. It takes how many years for the public to find out what happened to Ju-Es-style, with Cementar Popovac, what happened to this or that privatisation. Don't throw dust in the eyes of the people. The citizens of Serbia have long seen and despised you. This will show, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the next election, in which he will undisputedly vote for Tomislav Nikolic for the President of the Republic, because he will know that he will not interfere with what is not his constitutional authority and will know that everything he does as president will do publicly. Besides, that's what the citizens used to do by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13518	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Vereca Radetti. Is anyone else answering after the amendment? Please, People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I shall remain in the position of Articles 1 and 4. It's a bill of law. The security services are part of the unique security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia. ''Intentionally interpreting this provision results in the security services being part of a wider, more comprehensive system, which the proposer calls a single security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia. It is my question to the legislator of this law -- which act, by which law or any other sublegal or legal act has defined this notion -- the unique security-intelligence system of the Republic of Serbia, as a wider system, a more comprehensive security system? I tried to find it in the Defense Act, in the Army Act, in the Constitution, I don't know, he's gone. He's not anywhere. If it is not there, why does the legislator introduce certain legal standards that our legal system does not know? I'll tell you why. This law was not written by Serbian lawyers. He's written who knows where. But it's surprising that the bill goes through at least 50 lawyers, legal experts, prominent law experts, so that someone doesn't get caught up in the eyes of those lawyers to say, let's people see why this is. So it's appropriate, regardless of the warrants you get, to take it and process it and say we don't have it in the legal system, to throw it out and fit it into our legal system. That's what all normal states do. When a child gets a warrant, it modifies him to his father, to his mother, and he says, "I'm going to turn around like this and do it the way it suits me." You do it originally, without a comma, without a point, as you get so forward here, and you know it's a disgrace to the legal profession, and this is the ugliness of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on. "The work of the Security Service is under the supervision of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the National Security Council and the public. '"That's where it all ends. As far as oversight is concerned, in Articles 15 and 15, all we talk about is the oversight of the congregation. The congregation cannot exercise control since no act of security will be obtained. How to keep an eye on him - he can't. Furthermore, the legislator must have made it clear and done the construction of surveillance - what does the Assembly do, what does the Committee do, as long as this surveillance is going, what are the measures itself? What does it mean to monitor without measure? There's no measure here in the law. What does that mean? Security services can do whatever they want under this law - there are no sanctions or you thought through the public to warn them. Not a single sentence on how surveillance of the security services will be carried out by the President of the Republic, the Government, in which way the Council, which has the most opportunities, will receive a report, etc. However, we and today have an obligation to the Security Service to submit a report, make analysis, and inform the superior authorities, but they do not. We're breaking a lot of laws, and we're breaking the Constitution. What do we do, it's common here, because we didn't foresee measures. That we've predicted measures, that we've made it clear who's guilty because it wasn't delivered in time to report on the work of one service, the other, the third, the fifth, etc. Furthermore, what does public surveillance mean? How will the public monitor? Here, I'm a member of the Defence and Security Committee, and what we got in the BIA report, we're going to get in a far wider volume in every public vote. Take "Kurir", "Pres", "Evening News" or any newspaper, and you'll get more information than we get there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13520	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Security has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Saša Valjarevic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, colleague Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13521	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 4, requesting that a full member be deleted. First, let me say something about the very proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. It is evident that this law has been adopted pro-forma, in the context of and for the purpose of pre-election activities, so that presidential elections can be discussed. There are many shortcomings, you heard both in the afternoon and in the afternoon debate, and from colleagues from the SRS that they had major objections, firstly, about the very functioning of the security service, since we know the situation of the Republic of Serbia. However, given that this law is in the process, we will make sure that through the amendments, as you heard in the previous presentation, the amendment to Article 3 has not been adopted, to Article 4. I will explain in the context of this amendment why the proposal was made to delete the complete article 4. Article 4 of the Law reads: Security services are BIA, as a special organisation, VBA and VOA, as well as bodies within the Ministry of Defence. Security services shall carry out tasks and tasks within the limits of their jurisdiction, in accordance with the law. Security services have legal personality status. ''It is proposed to delete this Article 4 because it is in collegiate with the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This Article 4 could not be contained in this law at all. Why? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed in this law. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of this law implies the existence of a federal state and a Member State, which would adopt its laws in accordance with federal law governing the basics of the regulation of certain areas. That is why we have proposed that Article 4 be deleted, because it is in conflict, i.e. in conflict with the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm surprised whoever wrote the law didn't take care of it, because this is a big mistake. I am surprised that this amendment of the SRS to Article 4 has not been accepted. I hope that through other amendments colleagues to this law, it will be possible to improve the law itself, because this law, as proposed, has great shortcomings that would not regulate the good functioning of all services covered by this law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13522	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Sasa Valjarevic has tabled an amendment to Article 4. A bill of this law. When you read Article 4, which reads - security services are BIA, as a special organization. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very problematic definition. Why? This associates me with criminal organizations, mob organizations. However, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate and respect the very service of our country's security. I understand it differently, but what someone else will understand. That's why I'm saying it's not a good term as a special organization. For example, the KLA is also an organization, and in my opinion, BIA is a security institution of special importance to our country. BIA is not a masseuse, nor is it a past-time frontal organization. That's why the word "organization," ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, sounds bad. That is why this sentence should not have been entered in the provision of this article. However, in relation to the VBA and the VOA, I believe that the division of the responsibilities of these services and their work cycle is at stake, as in principle, methods and environments differ significantly from the BIA. The question is, then how can you coordinate the work of these two military services with the civil service of the BIA? Very impossible, very difficult. What's going to happen in practice? In practice, they'll control each other, and they'll only follow each other. They'll give one of these reports, different ones, so you won't have a unique approach to intelligence and counterintelligence issues. When it comes to VOA, then don't get out of the barracks, ladies and gentlemen, we have to figure it out. It works within military facilities, i.e. Casary. It would be interesting to explain to me, how this part-round work of the VOA is coordinated now, this one in the barracks, and this one looks out as BIA, how does it now be coordinated? This is a very important question, so I'm looking for an explanation of how these two institutions are going to function in practice. I see that under this law, the military intelligence will be released from the barracks. So it won't work in accordance with the Constitution and it'll work when it comes out of the barracks parallel to the BIA. So, operational work will be the Military Intelligence Service, which should operate within military facilities of the same barracks and now exits the barracks, and it is not a constitutional category or constitution that allows it, and it will parallelly run intelligence work, both from the outside and from the inside. Is this the result of our ministry's co-operation with civil protection in Ohio? You know, she's the guard who presents himself to the Serbian people that it's a guard American, famous, from Ohio, no, it's not a guard, it's civil protection, not a guard. Thus, we do not need to build, perfect, or organize the work of our security services according to their models. Ladies and gentlemen, all these jobs must be clearly delimited, I stress, they must be delimited. Everyone acting in harmony and within their framework of action, above all, to know who's doing what in this country and who's going to be responsible for what. Why am I saying that? Ladies and gentlemen, because there will be a conflict of jurisdiction. This is a very important question. It will, under the bill of this law, come to the conflict of jurisdiction of certain services, because when you read this bill, which contains 21 members of the norm, then you can see that this is not a good law, that it does not exactly distinguish the functioning of military intelligence services from civil service. That's why this law isn't good. There'll be big problems in application. I said just now, the Military Intelligence Service is now, under this bill, coming out of the barracks, and it's not under the Constitution and it can't, it's supposed to work there. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very concerned about this conflict of jurisdiction. I believe what Mr Valjarevic said and what I pointed out, that these are key things and that this is very important for the security of the state, for the security of the citizens, for the achievement of democracy and for the achievement of the freedom and rights of our citizens. If you take and look at this law, it resembles the rules of a hunting society or a voluntary fire company. So 22 members regulate the work of the most important security services in one country. I wish that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since I like to study parallel law, would now develop national MPs at the Institute for Comparative Rights, and that elaborate to deliver to the MPs and that MPs see how it was regulated in Germany, France, Italy, England, Wales, America, Russia, etc. Then the MPs could make sure that the MPs are not presented and that they do not propose the adoption of bad laws. From 2000 to today, nearly 300 laws have been passed. Some laws have not even entered into force, the government of the Republic of Serbia intervenes, demands amendments and additions to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, I have a special responsibility and I'm concerned. The Code of Criminal Procedure, the Constitution and the Law on these services mirrored the democracy of a state. This is not the Law of Prosecution, this is not the Law of Executive Procedure, this is not the Law of Temporary Alignment, this is a very serious and important law, because it concerns every single individual of this country. I have experience in the work, and I've been informed of how this service works. I want to have full confidence in that service, and I want that service not to abuse its powers. We want to have democracy. When I was working on the Code of Criminal Procedure in the federal government, I consulted the law of both continental countries and Angolan law, and believe that we have a more valid most democratic criminal code in Europe. So he's more democratic than American law. On the team that worked with me were experts from the judiciary, from the municipal court to the federal court, and the Constitutional Court, and the prosecution, from municipal to republican. They were professors from law schools, we included associations of Serbian and former SRJ lawyers, and believe that this team has developed one real democratic code. And you can see for yourself, if you take the Code of Criminal Procedure and compare it with the one that was previously in force, you will see that we advocate to do such good laws, make and make laws that will be a guarantee of respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13524	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed one amendment to Article 4, with a proposal for that member to be changed. For what? Because the amendment of this article, its definition in terms of attitudes and content in general, would improve the text of the law, if possible. As you have seen, Article 4 provides that BIA security services, as a special organisation, VBA and VOA, are as management bodies within the Ministry of Defence. However, in paragraph 2, pay attention, it says - security services carry out tasks and tasks within the limits of their jurisdiction, in accordance with the law. What's important and decisively missing here? There is no provision to say that security services will act within the framework of the Constitution and the law. There isn't in this clause, nor in this norm, that the Constitution will respect those who apply it. Whoever gets away from the Constitution, it's very dangerous for him and for the environment, and for the state and for the entire nation of a country. Security services must carry out tasks only in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the law. You see, what we mentioned earlier in the provisions that applied to the article. 2 and 3 which have regulated that security services will carry out their tasks and tasks under the laws and general rules and regulations, in Article 4(2), there is no such thing. It has to be written here. It must be specified here that security services will carry out tasks and tasks within the limits of their jurisdiction, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but there is no Constitution, there is no law. Pay attention and read previous members who say "and general rules and general rules". If that's the case, then he can't write in one article like this, and he can't write in the other one to write differently. It's incompatible and unacceptable. Therefore, we believe that this member should be changed and said: "The security services are BIA, VBA, VOA, as special organisations. Security services carry out tasks and tasks within the limits of their responsibilities, in accordance with the principles of constitutionality and legality (see, we propose to act in accordance with the principles of constitutionality and legality), respect for human rights and freedoms, professionalism and proportionality in the application of powers. ''So, the powers must be in proportion to the good that is protected and the measures regulated by the legal regulations and the Constitution. In their work, the security service is politically and ideologically neutral and cannot take action in favour of or at the expense of any political party or interest group. We agree that this provision remains for security services to have legal personality status. When it comes to this part that the security services in their work are political and ideologically neutral and cannot take action in favour of or at the expense of any political party, this standard should look like this, by ensuring that one of these standards is respected, which means that the competent assembly, as a legislator, and the competent defence and security committee, will have greater powers. Later on, through some provisions of the bill, we will note, which are the rights of the Defence and Security Committee, which they do not have and which are given on a flat-rate basis. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are staying with our proposal, and it is at the will of the MPs whether this amendment will be accepted or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13526	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Namely, I suggest you delete this article, because it's Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a law on security services, not as proposed here by the draft law on the basis of the regulation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state, as my predecessors have explained, that it would pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States, which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area. It is evident that these laws, including the law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, are only written to scrape jobs so that presidential elections can be discussed as soon as possible. It would have been better if you had written them without these laws, which you wrote in such a dilettant way. After all, Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic himself said the elections would be called either by law or by no means. Practically, this is a public distraction ahead of the presidential election. Security services are much more important than inter-party outsmarting, and it is inappropriate for such a law to be passed only to fulfill its form, so that outgoing Serbian President Boris Tadic can go to elections as soon as possible, because in a panic, he estimates that such odds are somewhat greater. This law is written in extortion and not comprehensive. Unfortunately, you will vote this law with your parliamentary majority, but the citizens will not feel any improvement or greater security. How can citizens believe that we will be safer when Vuk Draskovic, at the time he was so-called. The minister, acting as foreign minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, signed an agreement allowing NATO troops to cruise along and across our country without any control. I will remind only of the case of the Macedonian minister, who lost his life in a car accident with NATO troops and no one was responsible for it, as NATO troops are practically out of the law everywhere. The conclusion is made -- if one minister went through like that, what can ordinary citizens expect. Under DOS, our security services are practically placed in the service of Western foreign services. It would be better if we didn't have our security service, because it's now an exposition of the American CIA, British MI-6, German GNI, etc. The question arises who is doing everything in Serbia and whose agents have participated in the arrests or attempts to arrest individual citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been charged with so-called. The Hague tribunal. After the five-octobaric coup, the collapse of our security services begins, which is clearly continuing. This breakdown obviously continues with a bad law like this. SRS MPs have submitted a large number of amendments to try constructively to correct the shortcomings of this law. I hope that the ruling coalition will have an understanding and that some of these amendments will accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13528	According to the amendment, MP Goran Cvetanovic and MP Petar Jojic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Mr. Markovic, Minister of Local Self-Government, is present in the O.R., I'm sure he would consider Mr. Nikola Vukelic's amendment and I assume he would adopt it. Unfortunately, he's not present, so we'll try, with the strength of the arguments, to give you some more information. In Article 5. The National Security Council has been defined exactly as to what jurisdiction, not to quote them. I'm going to stop my attention on Article 5's indent. "is considering issues from the work of state administration bodies, autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, which are important for national security." Already in article 6, you have an assembly of the Council where, besides the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, you have the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, it means ministers who, because they represent defence or internal affairs, apply occasional force. Which is why I'm making an introduction like this, because today we have a declaration that employees in the administrations, the judiciary and social organisations of Serbia have begun a general strike. It is this indent of 5 that concerns employees of state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities, local self-government units, as well as other authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia. The general strike is organised to improve the material and social status of employees in these activities. The general strike lasts until the union's demands are met. They are seeking the wages they can live on, which is a completely natural condition that they can also work for the state of Serbia. They tried to improve the material and social situation through agreements, but unfortunately they failed to do so. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, we knew that this government certainly cannot defend our country's national integrity and sovereignty with full capacity, but the citizens of Serbia rightly expected us to go through economic reforms and not be at the bottom of the social sustainability threshold. Obviously, neither did this first priority goal succeed, and unfortunately this economic prosperity of all Serbian citizens. As we can see, we are not even at the beginning of that trip, if we were sure not to start a general strike today, surely we would not be dissatisfied with employees in all administrations, in the judiciary, in social organisations, in local self-governments, in the municipal administrations of all municipalities. I think this is also a warning from the local self-government minister, who does not call along with the president of the Assembly elections in many municipalities where temporary authorities are. But I think it's high time to put a finger in the right place and start the people who are authorized to think in the right way, to defend the interests of Serbian citizens, if they want both our future and the future of our children to be at an envious level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13530	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic after the amendment. You've got seven and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Cvetanovic has given an explanation for this amendment. Just a few notes I'd like to point out regarding the state administration, because as proposed in this Article 5, it's not the right wording of heading 1. So attitude 1 should say that it is an organ, and it is not the body of the Republic of Serbia. The definition should read -- the National Security Council is a state body or body of administration, or a security authority of Serbia that performs certain tasks and tasks in the area of security of the Republic of Serbia. This should be one definition, because that definition would regulate the application of the norm, far clearer and the one applying it could be easier in practice to apply it. When it comes to Article 5, the great powers contained in the provision concerning "is considering issues from the work of the authorities of the state administration, autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade that are important for national security". We believe that these powers in no way can be too broadly foreseen to be interpreted too widely and too broad to be applied. This leads to centralism. Now the Security Service will control local self-government. Where did that come from? Territorial security units, i.e. secretariats, departments and police stations, act as a single system in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to local self-government, in no case should such powers be allowed to be given to the National Security Council. If these powers remain, this means that the National Security Council will control both the provinces, and local self-government, municipalities, state authorities, cities, etc., and that it will thereby compromise the fundamental democratic and rights of local self-government and autonomy. That's where there's a lot of dangers. I say again, it is very dangerous for the National Security Council to have this many powers and prerogatives, because here the guidance and work of security structures is standardized. Now are we going to create security structures in the municipality, in the city, in the province, especially of these institutions that we're talking about here. What happens if someone goes past this law, who directs the work of the National Security Council, what do municipalities and what do cities do? What will happen, will one respond if he misdirects those services that will work in relation to the municipalities, in relation to autonomous provinces, and in relation to cities? Will the directors of these services respond? Here is the basic question: what happens if their estimates are wrong? Who's going to be responsible for the wrong evaluations? It's not prescribed by law, it's not intended because there's no criminal code. There's no law, if there's no punishment. What happens if a certain elder in these institutions organises illegal control of local self-government in a municipality or in a city? Is he gonna answer? He won't. For there are no regulations here that sanction it if it fails; whether it is done out of trouble or on purpose, whether it is out of conscious or unconsciousness? Will it fit in those cases? What was his intention? Whether local self-government and state authorities, the broad term is to say the National Security Council will exercise control of all state authorities, from the Republic to the local community and children's kindergarten. The concept of government authorities is broad. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this member and this kind of normisation and precision is not good and that this is not going to live well in practice, it will cause many consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13532	The word has been issued by MP Dr Zarko Obradovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say that for us, MPs of the SPS, the debate on this law, and especially on the part of the law on the work of the National Security Council, a few questions are raised. In fact, we do not dispute the need for a National Security Council. We also think it is logical for the President of the Republic to be at the head of the National Security Council, as someone who expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia, and of course if the function of the National Security Council is to take care of national security. But for us in the SAA, there is a question of the logical justification of this National Security Council in the law, especially in the context of the fact that the issue of security is not an integral part of the authority of the President of the Republic which is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the other day we had a law on the President of the Republic, the safety section was not contained in the law on the President of the Republic. You remember, fellow Members of the People, when we talked about the law on the President of the Republic, then it was said that the President has as many powers as those specified in the Constitution, no more, no less, and that no special law, any law, could extend the kind of jurisdiction of the President of the Republic. We in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a member who regulates the rights of the President of the Republic, did not find a part that would refer to security and imply that a National Security Council could be formed, where the President of the Republic is President of the Council. So, the thing is, in our opinion, very simple and logical. President yes, counsel yes, but not this way. Unfortunately, we have been facing for the fourth or fifth time in these few months since we have applied the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we have passed laws based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with one fact that the Proposer proposes legal acts, laws interpreted in its own free way and the Government of the Republic of Serbia or gives wider authority to certain institutions of the Republic of Serbia or enters a forbidden field, a gray zone, where it determines certain competences itself. Namely, the draftr of this law called for Article 97 of points 4 and 16 as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law on the basis of the organisation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. Point 4 states that the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, the emergency measures, and point 16. The constitution, which also refers to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, speaks of organisation and jurisdiction, that the Republic regulates and provides for the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities. If the President of the Republic belongs to a Republic body, then it is not logical that the Government first regulates its powers, it is not logical that the Government regulates the powers of the President of the Republic. The Government may be a service for the performance of affairs and what the President of the Republic has as competences established by the Constitution, but it is not logical that the Government determines its competences, and it turns out under this law that it is the Government that regulates the work of the President of the Republic, and in particular it is not logical to give it powers that it does not have. If this formulation on the formation of the National Security Council and you remember that at the time of the cohabitation and immediately before the formation of the Government, it seems to me in January or February of this year, it was about who should be at the head of the Security Service, and then we had one formulation given by Mr Solana on behalf of the European Union, that the President of the Republic should coordinate security services. I think that the Constitution should also provide for a part of the duties of the President of the Republic in the area of security, so that everything should be legal and logical, or in the Law on the President, to point out that he can have certain matters in the area of security. We don't see, otherwise, some other logical sense of existence, I speak logical constitutional or legislative basis for the existence of such a structure of the National Security Council. I have with me the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 2006 on the education of the National Security Council. The government's decision on the education of the 2006 National Security Council is based on the provisions of the Government Act, where Article 43(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is based on the provisions of Article 43(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The government law says the government can make decisions. The government made one decision to form a National Security Council. Since we have the law, it is undeniable that the assembly majority will adopt it, not because of what it says, but as it itself says in the light of this law in order to create conditions for the election of a president, does this mean that we will have two tips for national security or that this council is eventually abolished, and we do not know anything about it. You remember that this council was formed at a time of cohabitation, so it was necessary to find some mechanism for both the President of the Republic and the Government, or the Prime Minister in the co-habitation, to work together in matters that were valued as being of interest to the state of Serbia. When we look at each other's decisions, when we compare them you'll see, respected fellow MPs, very interesting things. Part of the jurisdiction is in this law, which we are now discussing, only slightly extended and the new part relating to the Council's affairs in directing and coordinating the work of the Security Service. However, when the structure of the Council is looked at, then in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Security Council, the Government's decision states that there is also the President of the National Assembly, who is now not present in this decision, and the President of the National Assembly is a man who, when necessary, replaces the President of the Republic of Serbia for not many, three months, but replaces him and he is someone who performs the duties of the President of the Republic of Serbia. In this decision, the Government of the Republic of Serbia found that a member of the Council was also the Deputy Prime Minister. The government's decision says he's a member of the Council and a foreign minister, he's not here, the directors are mentioned, and it's interesting, we're here saying that the head of the cabinet of the president has great powers, because he's here as Secretary of the Council, but he's in the Bureau for the co-ordination of a member of the Bureau. So, the president's chief of staff has a double role, he is essentially the one who is operationally uniting one another, and the person with whom a number of information on security issues, national security issues flows, and the head of the cabinet gets far more important in this matter than would be logical, related to the duties of the head of cabinet of the president of the Republic of Serbia. If we know this, then it sounds logical, of course we Socialists disagree with it, but then it sounds logical that the head of the cabinet of the president of the Republic of Serbia also determines the extent of security that the president of the Republic of Serbia has. You remember that we Socialists were against other people in the Republic of Serbia being able to have the same level of security as the President of the Republic. We were then told by the promoter that there are persons who can get that level of security and turn out to be the head of the cabinet that kind of person. Because if you'll excuse the person who's Secretary of the National Security Council and, at the same time, a member of the Security Service Coordination Bureau and the execution of Council conclusions, he becomes an extremely significant person. When you look at the Council, who works operationally, in the government's decision, it is interesting that the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic chair alternately. One session, one session, the other session, cohabitation practically at work. One session I'll chair, the agenda will be that, and the other you'll be the one, so the agenda will be that way. This cohabitation and this replacement, an hour like this, an hour like this, is seen in the work of those jobs called the secretary and deputy secretary of the Council. We now have a secretary of the National Security Council, head of the cabinet of the president, and in the government's decision, the secretary-general is the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Interestingly, his deputy is the head of the President of the Republic's cabinet. Dear fellow MPs, I have not accidentally pointed to these two councils, the structure that follows these two councils, since it is not logical that there are two national security councils in one country, we are at least not informed, nor has the minister told us who is in charge of the government to follow this law in the assembly debate, that this other council is not there, that it has been abolished or that he has indicated that after the founding and beginning of the work of this National Security Council, I say this under this law, the latter will cease to exist. But this second advice shows, black on white, how you should simply find all formal-legal solutions to establish or last some relationships, if you can qualify at the level of correctness. Perhaps the task of this National Security Council was then, as they like to say popularly - to capture Hague refugees, so the unification of all information relating to the state of national security in a country in one place, the coordination of these affairs and perhaps the issuing of some orders that they consider to be a concrete goal, which is, as they like to say, the extradition of Hague indictees and the handover of Carly del Ponte. I'm saying this because these things don't need to be ignored, they don't need to be neglected, they don't need to be put in another plan. The fact is we have a National Security Council in the Republic of Serbia. We socialists really think the Council should exist. What needs to be discussed is the authority of the Council, the structure of the Council and whether one person in the Council, in this case the head of the president's cabinet, really needs to have so much operational data. Turns out the president's chief of staff is more important than the interior minister or the defence minister, or some other person in this chain of command. Especially since we're discussing this law and we don't know what the national security strategy is. It's one thing that's rarely mentioned, but unfortunately it's about the state of the country. When we had the military law, we didn't discuss either the security strategy or the defense doctrine. We did not discuss those things that would be normal for a country, that the first national security strategy should be put on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to discuss it, and only after that, to pass some laws that would follow up on such a significant issue as national security. In any case, the SPS MPs believe that this issue should have been settled in a different way. We cannot understand that the president is given powers that the Constitution does not foresee, because when it comes to the president, they have in their position the 2nd Article of the 112s that are formulated, that the President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the military and appoints, promotes and resolves the officers of the Serbian Army. Nowhere is mentioned, nor in these previous provisions concerning the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, part of the security obligations. We know that this short-term goal, which is to pass the law in order to call the elections, that it is a stronger argument and fact, as my colleague Dusan Bajatovic likes to say, is the 126 voting machine that is the strongest possible argument the government has when it has to pass some law. The two strongest arguments for this and similar laws are-- there are 126 of us, we can pass the law, and that's what we agreed. That's where the story starts and ends. We MPs of the opposition, as much as we try to make sense, logically explain our amendments, to point out the lack of law, to propose possible solutions, all of this refuses to the wall of the Minister's silence when there is one, or simply the congregation's majority eventually accepts it and our words remain to float in the air and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can hear. A solution is made and a law is passed that serves to maintain the coalition. Unfortunately, this is one of those laws, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13534	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment has the People's MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of Article 6 which should regulate the composition of the National Security Council is very problematic. I ask the question - where is the opposition here when it comes to the National Security Council? Gentlemen from the ruling camps, remember what I mean. You know for the SRS that it voted over a million, a million and a half citizens, that so many citizens voted for the SRS that we had in the previous election 82 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling structure, remember that the Assembly cannot be led without the SRS. Why do I mention this? This is not a party of three, four or five MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, through Article 6. The draft law has practically led to the lustration of opposition parties. Through the provisions of this member, the proponent divides Serbia into two camps, those who vote in favour of the law, 126 MPs and others up to 250. You have a split of Serbia into two Serbias. When it comes to territorial integrity, sovereignty and the security of citizens in Serbia, the SRS will never share Serbia like this. How is that in other countries of parallel law? In neighbouring countries, the opposition has been introduced to key security functions. You can make sure that's true in Hungary. Why was the lustration done in this way, that in security structures, when it comes to advice, the bureau, the office, there is no opposition? In fact, the opposition should help control the service as well as possible, while on the other hand ensuring that the Serbian state is as secure as possible. When it comes to Article 5, let me just point out what it is considered to be foreign organizations with which our service will cooperate. Is this about doctors without borders whose boss was Bernard Kouchner, who was the first occupation chief of KIM, and today the French Foreign Minister, who said on state television in France -- last week we had eight killed Serbs, this week we have 11, we are recording visible progress. It's said on national television. A book was published on that. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why we Serbian radicals look differently when it comes to the National Security Council. These provisions, which are proposed, deserve special objections. Members of the National Council that are currently being proposed and will be proposed are in a dissipation and it is fierce. The President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, is to join NATO. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica, is not interested in joining NATO, he is seeking a referendum. How do you think their attitudes are now in line and how this service and that national council will work uniquely? Very difficult and impossible. When you look at the composition of this council, you will see that it is massive and that it will not be able to be unique in practice, which will make it difficult for the National Security Council to function in the Republic of Serbia. That's why we Serbian radicals also have objections to this member, so SRS MP Jovan Daya has proposed this amendment, I will not quote it, I think it deserves attention, and it is up to you ladies and gentlemen whether you accept it or not. We believe that he would in any case improve the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13536	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment has an MP, Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about an amendment to article 7 of this law on the foundations of the Security Service, let me say something about this law. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, this is not like the law. It's like some associations are being set up to regulate security services. This law has many shortcomings. In this law, the least we can do is talk about security services. If you wanted to and if you were in a hurry to pass this law, you should have prescribed existing laws, because they are much better than this bill of your law – the BIA Act, the Military Security Agency Act, the Military Intelligence Agency Act. It is quite clear that the presidential elections should be discussed, so you had to bring in something, and you wrote it in the light of this bill – quite clear, in order to call presidential elections, it is necessary to bring about an urgent procedure of this law. To improve this law, accept amendments to the SRS MPs, as well as this one to Article 7. I suggest you delete this article, because it's Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass laws on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States, which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you from the ruling coalition, how good this law is just telling you, and that, when the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the principle debate, said in one sentence – this law is good, it needs Serbia, all MPs should vote for it, and the rest of the time, four minutes, he talked about the Security Committee, while the other six minutes talked about the events at the Red Star football game – Hajduk from The Tower. If any law is good, I will defend it not for 20 minutes, but for two hours and 20 minutes. Look what, if that's when the theme could be discussed at the Red Star football game -- the Hajduk Tower, the authorised representative of the DSS, here, I'll answer it now. At the time he spoke about the bill's proposal, he said and praised Minister Jocic and police for reacting to the Red Star football game – Hajduk from the Tower, and said - the opposition is a minor, why not all voted on changes to the law on preventing violence on sports grounds. Here, I claim from this place that it's not true. That law you've passed has caused what's going on at football and basketball games. The consequences of that law were seen at the Red Star game – Hajduk, and Tomislav Nikolic said well, that is correct – you sacrificed Officer Trajkovic. What's a police officer gonna do at a football game between camera fans? What's he doing there? They all know each other. Look what's going on. After 10 days of arrest. So you prepared it to make this happen in the end. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you know what happens at football and basketball games is your fault. Since 2000, all the presidents of sports clubs have been from your political parties. You know who's at the head of the Football Federation. That man a year ago, the police found a gun in his car, didn't answer, and he doesn't have a license to carry. Because when he comes to us in smaller cities, he threatens us. Not to me, he can't threaten me - that he's a friend of Michael's, that he can do whatever he wants, Star Trezic. That's how he behaves. I'm just saying an example of how he behaves in Krushevec. So it's not just football and basketball in Belgrade, it's played in other parts of Serbia. Here's your problem, the judges are your biggest mob organization in football and basketball, and then the ones who run your clubs. Who's running your basketball league? It's a little drop. What happened to us? Look, here's your final example, so three times the session of the Athletic Union was repeated to elect Velija Ilic as president. Did he ever run anywhere? What was he doing, throwing a rock off his shoulders? I don't know, explain it to me. He's probably going to write in the paper tomorrow that he's performed for the former Yugoslavia team 76 times. You probably can do anything. I won't be long anymore. Gentlemen, take care, from the ruling coalition, of what happens to you at sports events. It's all your fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13538	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The amendment is spoken of by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, the applicant for the amendment. This is an amendment to Article 8. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic. I'm sorry, I don't know if there's any confusion, because there are a few amendments to Article 8. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 8, for one single reason, because we see that this proposal is a law on the basis of the regulation, not a law on the security of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2000 transition process, not since 2000. On October 5th, rather than since 2001, this security service has been a service that has actually worked all the time for the Dosmanian government. It didn't even work for the purpose for which it was meant to exist – in order to defend power. No, she was in the service that political insinuators could be overly incapacitated to act against the Dossmanian authorities. We saw well how it happened when Slobodan Milosevic was taken to The Hague, and later when all the patriots and patriots of this troubled Serbia were found in The Hague. But, ladies and gentlemen, as time goes by, you probably know the people's one -- who's the sword barking, he's the sword of the dead. It was the same with Serbia's largest intelligence chief, he did, Zoran Djindjic, how he experienced what he was supposed to experience as one traitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13540	Please don't, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13541	Please, as a traitor...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13542	Mr. Zivanovicu [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13543	I don't know what you're talking about. I'm normal, I don't know if you guys are a young man, you don't know. In fact, what were the goals of Zoran Djindjic? What are the goals of you as a dosmania...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13544	Mr. Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13545	I'm talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13546	Continue on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13547	By passing this security law, he is in the service of the country, as many speakers have said, many Serbian radicals have said, that strategies in this country no longer exist, because there is no army, there is not everything we could be proud of and admire, because you know that the defence power is still SRJ and the former Yugoslavia in the fourth place in Europe. Now I'm asking you, where and on what margins the current intelligence service is on. What led to this erosion, I think it will escalate again, I don't think there's any need, because you know it well, is that when he became the first minister in your Dosmanian government, he is Boris Tadic, the defence minister. At that time, the largest erosion and military intelligence services and all intelligence services in Serbia began. They actually worked for all NATO intelligence services, both America and the West. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why, here, if we read this article now and if you see, you'll see that what's written in it is probably left in an amannet for someone who will be former president of Serbia and who will actually have the opportunity to manage these intelligence services. Now I'm going to read you this article, because I believe many of you haven't even read it or seen it. Article 8: ''The Government will educate the National Security Council Office, as a government service, which performs professional and administrative tasks for the needs of the Council, and in particular: (see - professional and administrative affairs, I will explain this) the calls and preparation of Council meetings; expert tasks related to monitoring the implementation of the Council's guidelines and conclusions; work on the preparation of the Council's work report; work on administrative and technical support for coordination; keeping and keeping in mind members of the Council of Reports and other acts of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this member wants to form some kind of new parallel body that would run this service. Says here, professional and administrative affairs. I don't know what kind of professional business the council's office is thinking of forming. If you are referring to these administrative matters, in fact, there may be one official who, by order, as you have predicted here, by order of Article 6, means members of the Council, who will convene Council meetings and manage this work. But it can't be like a parallel body being involved in the work of this intelligence service. Jobs that are about to be called, let's just say that there's one official who's going to call it in, that's for it to be accepted. He says, professional affairs related to monitoring the implementation of guidelines and council conclusions. Be careful, please, professional affairs. Who's actually supposed to do these professional jobs here? It confides in one body again, it's the council's office. How long do you need to have these professional bodies to handle this intelligence and security service? This intelligence service still needs to have one body to run it, not how anyone likes it, so it's going to be some kind of representative that's going to come up with secrets, which are going to be needed by certain political structures. As for the affairs of preparing a report on the work of the Council. Please, how can the Council Office participate in the work of preparing the report on the work of the Council? I guess those who are personally involved in these intelligence services, they are able and ready to report from the field, not in fact to do so by the Council Office. You see how this law is quite unprofessionally prepared, as if it were being prepared by, probably, intelligence services, but these, let's call them, NGOs. Further, administrative and technical support services to the Bureau of Coordination. Please, the SRS and I, as an SRS MP, ask that this member be deleted, precisely because there should be no other bureaus in these departments, various offices, various double bodies, which are supposed to be dealing with certain administrative matters, as you say, and technical affairs. What are the technical tasks to be done by the Bureau, or by the Office of the Council? The last thing that, ladies and gentlemen, is keeping and putting in mind the members of the Council's board of reports and other Council acts. So this office should actually keep certain documentation, certain reports that this intelligence service has been delivering. Do you know what you actually wrote with this law and what you predicted, ladies and gentlemen? But I'm surprised that this security service, which was under your jurisdiction, because you remember, it was a one-party system and a one-party state, is now a one-party system in a multi-party state, where a single political structure is trying to run this country, ladies and gentlemen, if these intelligence services are under your jurisdiction of the five-October revolution, so we're saying, which is why Mr Davinic could in his famous affair "pancir" so jeopardise Serbia's budget and so much to make one kind of humiliation and erosion in the military. Nothing after that, various commissions were formed, so whether the lawsuit is now handed over to the military, and now to the civil court, to take care of it. Finally, nothing happened in that report, or that report, so that the National Assembly could inform itself of the crime that occurred at that time in the military. Don't forget that today Serbia is being handled by NGOs, the OSCE, by various missions. You know very well, many of your own, and especially those who serve, I have spoken in principle of military and defence, when many of your ranks serve the civilian deadline, but in these NGOs, where they want to be absorbed as spies, like those who will participate in intelligence work, but for many countries that are surrounded. You know very well that I told you last time that the CIA was formed by the Gestapo. After the capitulation of Germany, the entire people were absorbed and America absorbed the Gestapo right during the Cold War between the Soviet Council and America. It is now present in the area of Europe, where they actually want to create a certain focus, so now they have found it in the territory of Serbia, they have passed it on to KIM. Many of you here are drilling into your breasts, wishing, you know, to show themselves to go after love, for Serbia, for patriotism, for unity, and in fact we have seen everyone at these negotiations fighting the battle for Serbia, how the battle for KIM is fought, how the battle for Serbia's entire borders is fought. Ladies and gentlemen, surely, I must say, if it weren't for the SRS, if it weren't for that patriotism, if it hadn't been for that love that had actually denied in the cradle of all those born in Serbia, probably what you're up to with your friends and your sponsors would have happened. It won't be so easy for Kim to leave Serbia's composition, because what you're doing to us and what your intelligence services have actually come up with, in fact, between the lines when you're read, it's what you really want. You want power, but in order to retain power in Serbia, you want to give KIM. But you must know that the presidential candidate in the next election will be Tomislav Nikolic, who will stop this failure, along with all the patriotic forces, with all the patriots, who think well of Serbia and their people. Ladies and gentlemen, know that what Mr. Pera Jojic just said, these intelligence services are services that actually need to count white and blood cells, but I'm sure you'll know that there will be intelligence services to count and yellow blood cells.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13548	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's MP of Hope Kolundji. I ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13549	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 101st and 103rd. So, I think it's really inconceivable, inadmissible, that under every human dignity it is to allow yourself here for this pay phone in this house to justify someone's death. So I really think it's a defeat of everything that's decent and human. I'm really sorry that you have a problem, so away from the tabloids, you can't sign in and try to get a man who signed up to the brightest side of Serbian history to humiliate yourself in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13550	I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After break – 19/10]] We're continuing our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a distinguished colleague of Hope Kolundzija, did not understand Mr Srboljub Zivanovic's exposure well. The representatives of the SRS have always been an imperative to fight for justice and truth. When Mr. Zivanovic said something had happened, you could interpret it as you interpreted it, and I would present it to you in the best possible way. If you thought - who is the sword, that it is from the sword and suffers, believe me, Mr Srboljub Zivanovic did not intend to say it, nor did he bring it out. There are two variations in Serbia. We have the weakest political option, it's power, and we have the most influential party, and that's the people. In the next election, there will be a certain people. In that sense, he said that the government of Zoran Djindjic was doing a bad job, the results were in the elections, when you remembered you lost power, and when Serbian citizens showed up they didn't trust you and your political option. Then in the next period, you were an opposition, though constructive opposition, voted in favour of over 110 laws, and the citizens showed you confidence, and now you're in this position. So, people who deal with politics, they either get rewarded in elections, or they get punished. That's quite clear. What is certainly true is that before Serbia are the days of great temptation. But if by God, that love is the most powerful weapon and that is stronger than hate, I'm sure there is salvation for all of us in Serbia. Fortunately, there are those of us who are proud of who we are, who respect the differences between people and who love Serbia, and I think that Serbia is our first priority. I'm sure you've misread and understood the message, and we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13553	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment is spoken of by Ambassador Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's a fact, is that the state administration is too massive and that from law to law, this administration is increasing. Today, we are discussing the proposal for a Security Services Act, which is what the Serbian Government said, the proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of giving the most attention to the security services, we are dealing with some new administrative bodies that will burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's worse, governments are given certain instruments related to the establishment of these bodies. The draft law provides for the establishment of a National Security Council and Article 8. The government is proposing to form the National Security Council Office and to be educated by the Serbian government's regulation, to have the capacity to serve the government and to carry out professional and administrative tasks for the needs of the Council. We have tried to correct the bad text of this proposal, the amendments we have submitted to the bill. My amendment was directed in this direction to deprive the government of the right to arrange its sublaws for security services. If you're already setting up the National Security Council Office, if you think it's so important, then we think it's a better solution for that office to be educated by law, not by a government regulation, or by its sublaws. A large number of SRS MPs have submitted essentially the same amendment. In fact, we believe that this law should bear a different name, that is to say, in accordance with Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should call the law on the security services of the Republic of Serbia. The MPs of the SRS have already explained why we have submitted so many identical amendments, and now I'm going to try to do it again. The Republic of Serbia is not a federally arranged state. The Republic of Serbia is a unitary state and there are no federal units on its territory. At a time when there was a Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and there was a Federal Republic of Yugoslavia then there was a constitutional solution which was also logical for a federally-made state that the Federation, i.e. the federal state, regulates the basics in a legal area, and that the near legal regulation was left to the republics of the Member States. If this law is called what you called it, or what the government has proposed -- the law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, then two logical conclusions can be drawn. The first conclusion is that the ruling coalition intends to federalise the Republic of Serbia, restore a system that once was and that the Republic of Serbia is no longer a unitary state, but a federal state, on whose territory there will be a number of federal units. Furthermore, we can conclude that the ruling coalition may accept Nenada Chanka's policy, or the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina's policy, that Vojvodina should be a republic, or that it should have the status of a federal unit in the Republic of Serbia or that another federal unit in Serbia might be formed, and that the Republic of Serbia is then governed by the law only by the basics of the Security Service, and that, in future, God forbid, the federal units to regulate that matter in more detail. The second conclusion, also logical, otherwise not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is that the National Assembly will regulate the basics of security arrangements in the Republic of Serbia, and that the government will then regulate this matter in more detail with its sublaws. That this second conclusion was established resulting from Article 8. The bill, where it is said that the government will educate the National Security Council Office, as a government service, with its regulation that the National Security Council Office will carry out professional and administrative tasks for council purposes. We in the SRS believe that all security services in the Republic of Serbia, both civil and military, must correspond exclusively to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the one who establishes security services by law and the National Assembly must be the one who appoints or elects security elders. Elders of the Security Service should only respond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that chooses them. If, as you predicted, the security services were to correspond not only to the National Assembly, but also to the President of the Republic, and to the Government and, as you say, to the public, then that responsibility would be lost, it would become one dispensing category, and at the end of that responsibility would be nothing. Security services in the Republic of Serbia will share in the way they have acted so far, so more or less secretly, MPs will not have much information regarding the work of these services, they will continue to act as they will, as the ruling coalition wants, and as foreign mentors and ruling coalitions want. We want the security services for their work to meet exclusively the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we believe that this is the only way to achieve the standard that you are supposed to advocate, which is democratic and civilian control of the security service. The only honest and right democratic control is the control carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the National Assembly is the only state body enjoying the highest degree of political legitimacy in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the National Security Council Office, if you do not want to throw it out of the text of the bill, must be established exclusively by law and that the Government, as an executive body of government in the Republic of Serbia, must be left as little space as possible to regulate this matter by its sublaw. If Serbia's government is allowed to regulate matter closer to the security service, then it will in practice challenge volunteering, arbitration, self-will and ultimately from this democratic and civil control of the security service will be nothing. That is why, Mr Minister, as the Government's mandated promoter, I call on you to adopt this amendment and other amendments to the SRS, because they are absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and only these amendments allow one effective, civil and democratic control of the security services in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13555	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. According to the amendment, MP Dr Vladan Batic reported and then Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13556	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, many people in Serbia, who spent years in squares and streets in front of cordons and pens, tear gas, awaiting a better European democratic Serbia, are having a debate on this topic as an ugly dream. He's been discussing security services for days. Once again, a siat of bodies, institutions, secretariats, services and this is an overwhelming reminder of the time of the notorious Ozna, Udba, Service. Where security services strengthen weak democracy. Where there is an increase in one-offs from the security service budget, there automatically on the other side of a weak democratic institution. Let's see what is the responsibility of the National Security Council, as the law says, among other things, to consider the issue of defence, internal affairs and the work of the Security Service. Is the story of kim something that should be the central theme of the National Security Council? Of course it is. We spend days discussing everything and everything, discussing security services, and then the story of kim is left at the end. The parliaments of many European countries have been dealing with KIM lately, but it does not deal with the parliament of the Serbian state, which claims that Kosovo is its integral part, that Serbia has the sovereignty of KIM, but we will not talk about it. When was the last session of the KIM Committee a month ago. Well, folks, Kim isn't a theme in this assembly. Now let's see what it looks like in context and service, and the National Security Council, and these discussions, and future presidential elections and stories of entering European integration. Today, Swedish Foreign Minister Karl Bilt said the European Union has reached agreement and unity on recognising Kosovo's independence, with the exception of Cyprus. Cyprus, of course, cannot do that, because it has that Turkish part of Cyprus, with Famagust, and they would immediately claim to declare independence and that they too get state status. French diplomacy chief Bernard Kouchner today said the European Union is unique, but would give the pacifists in Serbia a chance to hold presidential elections. That's Bernard Kouchner's statement today. Now you're listening to our ministers, who seem to have arrived from another planet. Two foreign ministers say two large European countries are the European Union's stance and then you listen to our officials saying something completely different. Let's see, then, why are we even discussing the Security Service Act? Because according to the Constitutional Law, the adoption and adoption of the law is one of the assumptions for holding presidential elections. Today, we heard an official statement from the DSS, which said the DSS would decide after December 19th when the presidential elections will be held. I thought there was a ruling coalition here, where there are several parties that agree on important matters. However, we see that one party decides when there will be presidential elections, and in the follow-up of that statement, DSS spokesmans say - depending on the decision, from the Security Council's decision, it will be seen whether they will be held at all or will be amended by the Constitutional Law, and then one fine day, and perhaps later, presidential elections will be held. Then I ask why we scold, for after-so we debate in the midst of that people's house, the house is burning, and the grandmother is combed. We see that the President of the Assembly has also begun to relativise the story of the elections, as when these laws are passed, we will see what is the best timing for holding elections, and until the other day, he has been drilling into heroic lumps that he will comply with the Constitutional Law and that, independent of the coalition partners' position, he will call the elections. We're sitting here right now, distracting elected people's representatives. This is a message to Serbian citizens, the European Union says Kosovo will be independent, the president of the assembly says it will discuss elections, the coalition partner says he will decide when the elections will be, and we are talking for hours about security services. Let's try to make some order, but already when we talk about the election, and that's all connected to the security services, whether elections will be scheduled by December 31st, that's the first question. If he won't, will the Constitutional Law be amended? If elections are scheduled, what if Albanians declare independence and the European Union recognises an independent Kosovo, will the scheduled elections be cancelled? Whether a national unity government and a national rescue may be formed, as the DSS announces it. Let us once end these torments, to deal with those things that are burning in this country, first Kosovo, the European Union, and then the elections. As time leaks, and since the elections will probably not be called for January 20th, but perhaps for January 27th, then a smart Deputy Prime Minister came forward and told us that the European Union will sign an Association and Stabilisation Agreement with Serbia on January 28th. Just on January 28th, the day after the election. Then you have today's report by Carla del Ponte, who says Serbia has failed to meet anything, asks the Council of Europe and the European Union not to give Serbia near the European Union, and then every normal person wonders what these people in parliament are doing, which is what they are actually doing, what security services and the National Security Council Office are doing. Do you know how important this is today? It doesn't matter at all. It's completely insignificant at this burning moment. So, the president of the assembly is obliged not to play hide-and-seek with the MPs anymore, that we don't have a game of matches here, this one's not, this one's not, let's guess who it is. We're facing delicate life and historical problems and let's deal with these problems. One more thing, one who finds himself in the position of the President of the Republic, if at that moment, no matter what his name is, Kosovo becomes independent, he is obliged to resign from that post at the same time, regardless of what is, of course, his responsibility. It was lost a long time ago, but the price has to be paid by whoever is in office as president of the state who lost 15% of their territory and I don't know how many citizens living in that territory, no matter what nationality they are. Why am I saying that? Because people promise that Kosovo will remain ours forever. We had a prime minister whose first point of the coalition agreement was to preserve and strengthen the state community. The SCG fell apart and nothing at all, he remains prime minister and remains prime minister. If Kosovo goes home, Belanovica or somewhere else, then think about what you wanted to do well, but you failed. It's a responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13557	The word is from Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I am reporting for the amendment to Article 8, which is explained here by fellow Martinovic, and is related to this chapter 3 - Guidance and coordination of the work of the Security Service, in particular Article 8 - Office of the Council. We are in a situation today to do something that in no segment will benefit our country and our society. Namely, I remind you that three or four years ago under civil control of the Serbia-Montenegro Army General Staff was taken from the General Staff to the Intelligence and Counterintelligence Service and added to the Ministry of Defence, so the General Staff is no longer able to investigate and make a good assessment of the security situation without these services, which is directly responsible for then by Defence Minister Prvoslav Davinic and his predecessor Boris Tadic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you have been dealing with this problem and if you have read any military literature, which is best witnessed by General Delic, any state and every army must have a strong service of security. When I say army, I mean General Staff. Based on an assessment of the security situation made by the service, the military is being used. We don't have that. It is no accident that Davinic moved this into the Ministry of Defence, and now we see under this bill that the defence strategy will be taken into account by politicians. Neither Mr Tadic nor Kostunica can make a security assessment, but the services involved must do so. These days we discussed the Law on the Serbian Army, the Law on Defence, as you heard from my predecessors, without a defence strategy being established. Also, as far as security services are concerned, you have seen here in certain members a national security strategy is mentioned. In order for this to be discussed and decided here, a national security strategy must first be established, and then we must decide who will and how to manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13559	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Jadranka Vukovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is, what did the proposer want with this law? Is it a matter of putting up some kind of civilian security control or writing a law that will, like, create a form to get conditions for calling presidential elections? It seems to me that this second reason is more likely, because what's written here can be interpreted as being written by some beginner or that this is some kind of seminar work, not a bill. I see Mr. Secretary disagrees with me. Later, on another amendment, we'll say a little more about how our security services are doing and what they've done with our security services since October 5th. When you look at Article 8 and the Office of the Council, as they write it here, it's a body that needs to coordinate the work of the National Security Service. Is it the BIA, whether it's military security services, etc. The members of the council are the president of the Republic, the prime minister of defence, the interior minister, the minister of justice, etc., more than once, so the office, one body at the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be set up to prepare meetings of the council. Come on and that, the technical part of the job has to be, someone has to keep a record, photocopy the paperwork, send out calls, and you need a caller on that council, because obviously you haven't hired enough of your people, there's still someone left to hire, but I'm interested in some other things. He says the Council's office is also doing professional work with regard to monitoring the implementation of the Council's guidelines and conclusions. I'm very interested in these scribes and how they're going to control what the National Security Services are doing. They're little kids for them. How do they think they get into state security, control them, and check them out? Who's gonna do it? I don't think any government minister can do that, let alone one of their employees. In all these years you haven't been able to set up state security services to work by the rules and criteria as you wish, the only thing you've managed to do is get rid of work, etc. To tear up part of the National Security Service. But you forgot about another problem, that the operative always remains an operative, only now he's no longer in your control. Who's he working for now? It's a big problem you've made yourself and don't be surprised there's more laufer. This is the result of your work and of your policies that you conduct in terms of national security.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13561	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Just one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13562	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the presentation of Mr Srboljub Zivanovic and Mr Aleksandar Martinovic tried with the power of the arguments to adopt the amendment to Article 8. Since the minister is present, and I only have a minute, I'll try to make some arguments. The Security Council's office, as the government's professional service; offices are established by law, but since 5 October 2000 we have a permanent regulation, I'm sure we have over 100 regulations since 5 October 2000. The basic point of view of the SRS is that through the law we must pass laws, the basic function of the Assembly, and not constantly government by its special regulations to adopt regulations and thus to coordinate the work of the Government. Thus, here it is defined - professional and administrative jobs for the needs of the Council. We've got a lot of counselors all the time. I don't know how many hundreds of counselors have been hired back six months, but either way, if you're looking again for some informants, service, some new Socrates, some new responsibilities, this is a great position to do so. We continue to advise you, remember how you went in the last elections when you were in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when you made a number of regulations. We think it's high time you cut those regulations and passed the right laws, and we're here to look at both the consequences and the vision you have for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13563	I thank MP Goran Cvetanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Security has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of this Law, which regulates the way the Council works. I would have to read what is meant by Article 9, in order for the citizens of Serbia and the MPs who have now joined the session to understand what is at stake. "The Council is convened by the President of the Republic. The draft agenda shall be determined by the President of the Republic or by the Prime Minister. The Council is chaired by the President of the Republic, and if he is prevented, the Prime Minister. The conclusions and other acts of the Council shall be signed by the President of the Republic. Council meetings shall be held as necessary and at least once every three months. The President of the Republic may call, on his initiative or on the initiative of a member of the Council, for meetings of the Council of the Heads of State and of the institutions and other persons not members of the Council. "You have heard from previous SRS speakers who are all members of the National Security Council. Mr. Petar Jojic explained very extensively what and what the National Security Council will deal with. There's a lot of questions here. Since the President of the State and the Prime Minister co-habitate in politics, the current situation in the situation of the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, the question is - what direction and agenda will the Council have when the President of the Republic is chaired, and what agenda will be and what direction will the session take when the Prime Minister is chaired? Since they have the right to all the control of state authorities, as Petar Jojic explained, from the local community, municipalities and all other state authorities, are essential issues -- how the meetings will be conducted and what direction they will take when the President of the Republic is chaired, and which direction will go when the Prime Minister is chaired. I filed an amendment to delete article nine. In the light of the amendments, I have written that it is proposed to delete this article because Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is intended to pass a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state. This law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States, which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law that regulates the basics of the arrangements of a particular area. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here it may be the assembly majority who wants to support the autonomous idea of building a Constitution of Vojvodina in the AP, to appoint the president of the AP Vojvodina, the ministry. In line with the use of this pay phone, how the autonomists today in this republic call themselves the will to call the duchy MPs, exactly and specifically the other day an MP from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina pleaded here for a pay phone and made it clear that the AP Vojvodina should have a president. In line with this amendment and the reasoning that I have given, this part is thoroughly suppressed by the thesis -- that autonomists also use this pay phone in the republican parliament to implement their ideas. In order to remind you of the security itself and the National Security Council, which should deal with security services, in the previous meeting, where the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security chaired and led by the Serbian Radical Milorad Mircic, held a session in Subotica, where two committees -- for international relations and security -- held a joint session. It is about security, international relations in Vojvodina, where the minister, who is now the police minister, and the BIA chief, who is today the same man - Bulatovic, the BIA chief, came to the conclusion, i.e. The two committees concluded, based on the findings of the BIA chief and police minister, that the media pressured the AP Vojvodina on international relations and conflicts, where controversial, individual conflicts were treated as conflicts on an international basis. Since that time, where the personal seat is now the president of the BIA, and the minister of police, has done nothing in the field so far. And day and day, media have been serving such things for political purposes and when it is necessary to raise tensions in the AP Vojvodina, as it has been recently, recently, when the National Machine was supposed to march on Novi Sad, where services and the minister of police allowed countermitting regarding fascist markings and fascists in Vojvodina, to raise tensions that Fascism exists in Vojvodina. I personally and absolutely claim that there is no fascism in Vojvodina, but in the way that the Ministry of Police and the Service allowed countermitting in Vojvodina, to raise tensions in Vojvodina as regards fascism, in the same way as the national minorities now advocated by the Vojvodina MPs in parliament, Mr Balint said the other day that only Hungarian nationalities in the military book of the war schedule are being entered in the West. So, the thesis itself and the declaration raises tensions in Vojvodina for this pay phone. Therefore, in such a way, as it is wanted in Vojvodina to declare certain conflicts or in some way to show some other relationship -- that it is not in Vojvodina the way it should be -- the Service of State Security and the other services in charge of that part do not react at all. The responsibility is high on the SRS, given that the SRS has a great foundation and voters in Vojvodina, has a great responsibility to bring all this out. Of course, in the Vojvodina pre-election campaign, we will certainly erase it and show that there are no international relations in Vojvodina, that there are no more difficult ones, as certain MPs wanted to say for this speaker and prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13565	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Zivkov. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic and then by Dusan Bajatovic. The Serbian Radical Party has seven minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13566	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was hoping Mr. Secretary would be here. But, well, he says he's bored. (President: I ask Mr. Minister to take his place. ) However, what I am about to say is more because of the citizens of Serbia. The Minister knows that. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia that Serbia no longer has a serious security service at any level, whether it is the BIA, the Military Security Agency or any other service. There are no more security services in Serbia, and the reason for their absence is the multiple conflict that continues today between the DSS and DS, which among the two parties, either Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic, will control these services. It went to this point that both services were literally completely destroyed, and now only their remains are functioning, that's one reason. The second reason is that our country doesn't have a strategy - what about these services? In the right sense, there is no word. So when it comes to counterintelligence, it doesn't exist anymore. There are no more foreign services here that spy on us, maybe someone else who's here and is doing something. There's no more need for that. It's enough to call you on the phone - you'll tell them everything. If they don't understand something, you'll bring it in in writing so they can study it nicely. So there's no real foreign service here either. When it comes to strategy, our security services don't have it. It's an ignorance of the political summit on what to do with that service. Here, on one case. So our services are supposed to fight organized crime, and for that, you hired even Bea. Our services need to fight terrorism, here, engage whatever security service you want. But you haven't made a strategy of what these services should do. And that's the problem. Out of some fear of people who worked in these services, who were not politically oriented, but were trained for it, they had experience, relationships with other intelligence services from countries that were friendly to us, you drove out of the service. Our security services no longer have any contact with other services, it doesn't exist and everything is completely dead. The exchange of information, important for the security of the country, which some other service can find out, does not exist. It's all destroyed - out of the desire to establish control of these services. That the goal is to establish control of these services, I'll give you a simple case. Who arrested the traitor, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Perisic -- military security. Where those operatives who arrested him were expelled, and the people who ran them during the Sabre were arrested. That is true and that they are no longer in the service, and they have done honest and honest work, says the fact that Perisic was never meant to be. Who helped him never be tried? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Carla del Ponte) I'm not interested in those from abroad. I'm interested in these here, who helped him -- the Democratic Party. Was he protecting himself behind the immunity of a MP in the Federal Assembly of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Yes, it is. Did he hide behind the immunity of the MP in the state community? You could have, then, if you were uncomfortable with him being no longer a Parliamentarian - his immunity was restored. Later, you abolish military courts and transfer them to the courts of general jurisdiction, the deadlines that predict that one traitor may not be tried for obsolescence. Is that how it all happened? Yes, it is. Are all these people involved in the arrest of traitors of the government of Zoran Djindjic arrested? They did. What are you talking about now? When you're from all these facts that I just said you could learn some lessons, I don't think you're going to write such laws that are one ordinary colourful lie to edit something in the state. The greatest achievement of our security service is the recent arrest of an organized group of criminals, now watch this, an organized group dealing with economic crime, meaning, sophisticated crime, where people with phantoms break down, families harass themselves, children etc. I don't mind. Those gentlemen, if they are guilty, let them answer. The public should know that they sat with police inspectors for a month collecting evidence against them, and then arrested them during the night. I don't mind you arresting them. You should arrest criminals. But why in that way? To create an impression among the people that the state is doing something, to create an impression that the state is fighting crime, while the real criminals pass, survive, such as Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. They're real criminals. What did you do with those cops who arrested them, or wrote down criminal charges? Some of you have retired, moved some to jobs, simply to get them to quit, and some simply expelled from the ministry. The goal is to create a picture in the country of something being done and something going on, to scare the people a little bit. What's the point? Probably these upcoming presidential elections, that's probably it. You are obviously in a hurry, you are aware that your popularity is falling in proportion to time, it is already too late to call the election now, it is too late for Boris Tadic. The sooner you sign them, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, the sooner Mr Tomislav Nikolic will be the president of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13567	The word has been issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13568	Article 9 is one of the members that shows that this law, if we want to beat the story, is inconsistently written, and another piece of evidence that it is once again the fruit of political mistrust in the ruling coalition itself. It is enough to say that the draft agenda is determined by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. What about the other council members? Otherwise, this member is addressed, Article 9 says - Mode of work of the Council. Neither is the decision-making process, so I will say, if a fellow chairman agrees, as well as not to report again on Article 9 that colleagues have proposed, to add -- the Council makes decisions for most of the total number of members. Indeed, this is where the next question is asked, and I've already mentioned that there's one intelligence service missing here, and that's so-called. SID, Information and Documentation Service within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I hope it hasn't been lifted. If we're talking about security services, I hope someone didn't estimate that there's no need for intelligence structures that would work whether through embassies or economic representations, or anything else, like all the serious services of the world, maybe even through some NGOs, like we do. We can see on every good case. This fact proposed in this law, that the draft agenda of the session is determined by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, is intended to maintain the coalition in the full sense of that word. Why? Because one of the security challenges facing Serbia is, among other things, organised crime or criminal association, or, say, robbery of businesses and bankruptcy and their privatisation of fish teps. What does that mean? This means that only that criminal, only that criminal association or organized criminal group agreed upon by the president of the state and the Prime Minister can be put on the agenda. This article, this one sentence, which looks very harmless, gives the power to two Council members to actually manage crime in Serbia. I agree, I just don't agree with the criminal charge being selective. I'll remind you that many mafias that have been discovered, road, road, road, educational, sports, that now we don't order who they were, are actually public secrets. I'm surprised that these services didn't know about the existence of these mafias, when we all knew, and we who sit here and the minority every citizen who tried to do anything fair with their ten fingers in some more serious authority or some institution, or some well-organized company with high profit rates, from public to private, anyway. Please, this isn't so naive. The fact that the agenda is determined by the Prime Minister and the President of the State is not in line with constitutional powers. It's not even in line with the good norm, it's not even in line with the job that the Prime Minister and the president of the state are supposed to be doing. The softer part of this story would be if you really had to let go, it's not possible to bump into everything at once, which would be a security challenge. Let's say, here, let me remind you, that we have defined and that is why the Yugoslav Army is reformed, that we have no external challenges in the sense that someone will attack us with tanks. But the basic program of our army should be the fight against terrorism. If these two men have a different vision of what they can produce religiously or perhaps some destabilizing political element in the state of Serbia, from some NGOs to some politicians who teach us here, I just didn't want to report just so I wouldn't take the time, but no one here answered what was released by 1,700 Albanians, all in a row of terrorists, when DOS came to power. Perhaps some things about Kosovo would be more famous than they are today and has very well analysed which all scenarios can happen to Serbia regarding Kosovo and Metohija. I have no doubt he's intelligent, and I doubt he's well-informed. So this isn't so naive. After all, it is said here when it comes to council jurisdiction, it says -- it draws conclusions, draws conclusions, draws conclusions, and it doesn't say anything. I'm not opposed to the fact that in the law on the security of things, it's broad and flexible, because we need to cover these services in their work, not destroy them. But also to keep them within a legal framework, but I am the opponent that those who operate security services have an excessively broad framework to negotiate how to determine the jobs that security services in our country will deal with. So, all in all, this Article 9 is really controversial. I don't want to be right and say that in security matters, since this is just a basic framework, things are going to come down, let's say, in dealing with crime on a coalition deal, whether we allow dealing with someone or not. To deal with someone, both Tadic and Kostunica must agree, or I don't know what tomorrow will be called the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, I don't care. I don't trust those who would eventually come after them. Perhaps they too will be controversial, as we are now mentioned by these two disputed ones. We should enable the work of the National Security Council, which I otherwise consider to be controversial, not by jurisdiction, but by the overall composition and the way in which it is chosen, to set up and the way in which its work is arranged. I think it would be a good idea to delete this Article 9 and get to a more systematic, clearer way of determining some of the points of the agenda. I would like the agenda points to be established on the proposal of the Minister of Defence, and on a proposal from the Minister of Police, and on a proposal from the head of BIA, to join here and the SID, both on the proposal of the VBA and on the proposal of the VoA, not on the agenda being determined by the President of the State and the Prime Minister. I can understand and it is evident in the work of Parliament, and in legislative solutions, both in political practice and in relation to the electoral issue, as you can see, and I must say that, as much as he was in charge of the destruction of the state and parliament here, in some things he was right, gentlemen from the ruling coalition. If we are from the opposition already in some way silently agreed not to spend too much time, and sometimes rich and not to make all arguments, to allow you to adopt these laws from the set provided for by the Constitutional Law, because we participated in the adoption of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, if we want to be politically consistent, then your degree of responsibility, which results from the very fact that you have formed the majority as a coalition, should be significantly greater. I hope we don't change them every week or every coalition, because these are called capital laws. As capital, good or harmful as they are, we're going to see it by the practice that's going to come out of them. The very fact that these laws have been passed without appropriate strategies, without the relevant learned elements, that many of the things that will be dealt with by this council require that this council meet once a day and not once every three months. It may be a norm that it has to go once every three months, but here it would impose once a day and require that you have more understanding between yourselves. As far as I can see, in terms of KIM and basic security challenges, which you wanted to discuss, since you must not open all security challenges facing Serbia, you have mainly supported opposition parties, I do not want to single out any of them. When it comes to KIM, we practically had the agreement of all relevant political parties in Serbia. It would certainly be so if we could define security challenges, that the ruling coalition is not so selfish that everything else wants to keep it in its hands, simply because the government is a good prey. I've tried, perhaps in a slightly rougher way, and some say, perhaps you're not rough enough, to warn one of the fact that it's not good that this is set up and that we're really leaving space for both the president of the state and the Prime Minister to choose which security challenge the National Security Council session will be set up, and among other things, to discuss or not to discuss at the request of one of these two people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13569	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, from you on the basis of article 194. I ask the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to invite Minister Markovic to attend a session of the National Assembly, so that, on the basis of the arguments presented by the MPs of the SRS to accept a number of amendments, in order to try this law which, as a graduate lawyer, I have not had the opportunity to see worse written and technically and legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13571	Mr. Peric, one moment, please the service, if the minister is in the building, to come to the assembly room immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13572	First, this assembly has passed many laws that directly affected the interests of Serbian citizens, but this law has been so done in an amateur way, in a trainee way, that I cannot understand it. And probably for that reason, Minister Markovic, whenever he had the chance to come out, he used it, because he couldn't surely accept the arguments of the SRS MPs, and he couldn't stay here and preserve a minimum of legal knowledge that wasn't disputed with him. He is a lecturer at some senior security school, but he probably didn't write this bill. You see, the reasons for implementing this law, and it is said - to implement this law is not necessary to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It could stand here -- the financial needs for the implementation of this law, and then maybe this definition could be accepted in an explanation, but as it turns out, we don't need financial resources to implement this law, I don't think we needed this and this law at all. The time we spend to discuss this law is wasted. On the basis of Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Section 2, is precise when the president of the National Assembly can call elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. And then it was said, until December 31st or the furthest of days since the final law governing the election of the president, namely the law on the president, the election of the president, the law on the military, the law on defence, the law on foreign affairs and, ultimately, the security law. In fact, the MP, Mr Zoran Krasic, proposed in the first amendment to this article that the name of this law be changed. It is not only about changing the name of the law, but under such a law, conditions for calling presidential elections are not met, and I will show you this, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 22, which will explain the MP Jovan Damjanovic in more detail. It is said in the position of the first member: 'The work of the Security Service will be governed by a special law, in accordance with this law. ''And here in Article 3 paragraph 2 of the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said - presidential elections can be called at the moment these laws are passed. Finally, in Article 22, too, but a more detailed explanation under the amendment to this article will be given to you by Mr Jovan Damjanovic, it is said: - the competent authorities are obliged to adopt the necessary sublaws for the implementation of this law, without any deadline. So there is no deadline on which to bring these sublegal acts. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of the Law to regulate the way the Council works. In that Article 9, it was said that the Council meeting was convened and chaired by the President of the Republic, and in his absence it could also be the Prime Minister, then whoever called the sessions, which acts were adopted by the National Security Council. By the way, this law could be called -- a law on a National Security Council and a ban on political party accession. We had this in Article 2 of this law where it is said - political parties are forbidden to join, leaving the directors of the security services to be the most prominent members of the parties who exercise power. It is also an interesting member of the 6th law to discuss the composition of the National Security Council, so it is said that the National Security Council consists of the President of the Republic - DSS, Prime Minister - DSS, Defence Minister - DSS, Justice Minister - DSS, Chief of General Staff of Serbia - DS, directors of the Security Service, have three directors, and of which are two DSS members and is one member of the DSS. About what your dear Solana told you on 8 May, in the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that security services must be in the custody of Boris Tadic, and you are through this Article 6. The bill provided for six DS members and three DSS members. My predecessor, colleague Dragan Zivkov, suggested that article 9 be deleted. In the event that the minister does not accept this amendment submitted by Dragan Zivkov, I suggest adding a new position 3 which follows -- that the Council makes decisions most of the total number of members. Nothing in particular will change here compared to DS-DSS, but at least we'll be able, of the nine members of the Council in total, to at least make five members of the Council's decision. The answer I received from the government, and regarding the non-acceptance of this amendment, reads: "The amendment is not accepted. The proposed substance by its nature should be regulated in the Rules of Procedure of the Council, whose adoption is already provided for in Article 10 of this Act. "It is provided for in Article 10 of this Law to adopt a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council, but you are in Article 8, when it comes to the Office of the Council, to provide for the calls and preparation of the Council session and other activities of this office, but you did not say that this would be regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council. We want, since the MPs, especially the opposition, are not referred to those acts that bring certain advice, the government and the ministry, so we are trying through a legislative change to put you in a position to be obvious, to know how and how you are pursuing certain goals and your intentions that are truly disastrous and devastating. So much for the explanation of this law, and I assume, Mr. Minister, that you will accept this amendment, as you should do with all the amendments of the SRS. Then it would somehow be able to fix otherwise very bad, perhaps the worst legal proposal I've ever had to watch or read either as a law student or later, or by doing certain jobs as a graduate lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13573	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13574	This amendment can't fix what's wrong, and the bad thing is, in fact, the idea that's come to someone's mind, to make a law like this. Now you'll see how bad that is. According to Article 8 of this bill, Mr Markovic, there is no difference between the EU's Office for Association and the Council's Office, and one and the other is formed by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the EU Association Office, where is that lady, the pretty blonde Tanja Miscevic, what are they doing? They're traveling. What else are they doing? They say we should work with The Hague. What are they still doing? They tell Jocic - go paraphrasing. What are they still doing? They don't do anything, they spend money. It was planted in the cowardly egg of the Labus side, which by mistake remained in the government, in a way. That Dinkic still hasn't been able to break up. She probably has a stronger connection in European structures, and she has to be there. Basically, the Association Office has no jurisdiction. Why? No individual administrative act shall be adopted. He is considering, taking views, reviewing, proposing, taking pictures, questioning public opinion, paying for the EU's popularity in Serbia, etc. It's an office, according to the Serbian government's regulation. The Council's office will be the same under the Serbian government's regulation. But you know what the problem is? The problem is when a frog sees the horses weave, she lifts her foot to get her shoes up. The Americans had fifty-something security agencies, so they saw that so many security agencies seem disharmonic, not tied to a single system. They did do something like a national security advice three years ago, although they have their own strategic room with that Faraday cage, that no one can listen, etc. So you need to put this advice in some cage so you don't hear what they're talking about. The problem is they're all someone's insiders. Some strategic room would have to be made. You said the council was working on the system - as agreed. Why did they predict this - how do we agree? For the simple reason that Article 5 speaks of the powers of that council. Now don't laugh too much when I read what the powers of this council are. The first group of National Security Council jobs is that they tend. That doesn't mean they need to grow old in that function, but they tend, care, care. About what? As they consider issues from the area, as they consider mutual co-operation, as they propose to the authorities, as they consider proposals, while other issues are also being considered. It's their jurisdiction. So they should grow old, sit around looking after each other. The second, even more monumental group of jobs from the council's jurisdiction is to direct the council. That means it's pointing in that direction. What does it show? It shows how it is considered, how it is concluded, how it is concluded, how it is followed, how it is given an opinion. That's the whole jurisdiction. So it's a rotten granola. The power ratio, according to the current schedule, is 6:3 in favour of Boris Tadic. Of course, since such a relationship is strength, it cannot stand in Article 9: shape, decision-making. Why, you can tell it's 6:3. So it's a clear decision at the beginning. The problem is that there's no decision. What would they decide? What would they vote on? About ageing, about directing when considering, concluding and monitoring. So that's what it is: There's a cat coming around you, make sure you don't get scratched. Mr. Markovic, I can tell you very reliably here: the President of the Republic is not working for Serbia, the Prime Minister is not working for Serbia, the defence minister is working where he finished his course, the interior minister is doing everything in his power just to keep the book from being published about how he robbed the trades. (President: Mr. Krasic, please don't be such a big head of state institutions. ) Mr. Albianic, the fact that you're not informed, that you're not watching TV, that's your problem, but if TV Pink can make jokes, sketches at the expense of the Home Secretary, on the subject of breaking trades, and that it's not closed, and it's not bombed, and I don't have financial police, tax administration, or BIA, or anyone else, that doesn't mean that, because you don't watch TV, I should be forbidden to watch TV. During a very nice show, they made one sketch, one joke at the expense of current politicians. It's probably gonna make a joke on me tomorrow, but you don't need to jump and worry, because it's already become a common fact. When it comes to the generally known fact, your ax should be minimal, not maximum. Furthermore, the Serbian Army Chief of Staff has three stars, but he is still the Lieutenant General, because we won in the meantime some brigade general. Furthermore, as far as the Director of Security Services is concerned, they are formally and legally impartial. One of the minors from prison came in for BIA director. You're not reminding me? He doesn't warn me, because that's a fact. This morning a few MPs were talking about it. (Chairman: You're out of time, Mr. Krassic. The time is just coming to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13575	Does anyone else want a word from the MPs about this amendment? Radoslav Jevremovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13576	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, counterpart Jevremovic, submitted an amendment to the bill on the basis of the organisation of the Republika Srpska Security Service and the amendment reads - article 10 is deleted. In Article 10. The proposal for a law on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia is stated in point 1: "The Council adopts a Rules of Procedure on its work. ''Stav 2: ''The Rules of Procedure and other General Acts of the Council are closer to settle other issues which are relevant for the work of the Council, the Bureau of Coordination and the Office of the Council, as well as the way in which administrative and technical affairs are carried out for the Council. ''The expropriation of Article 10 of this proposal of the law is proposed because it is to Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is not good and it is hard for amendments to fix it, but the SRS parliamentary group is trying to correct what can be corrected. It is clear to all of us why this bill was passed quickly, it is only for the reason that elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia would be announced as soon as possible and that they should be implemented before the status of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved, and, as you know, I hope, the Constitution clearly states that KIM is an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. This law needed much to be resolved and nothing would have been disputed if it had been done in the right way. The way you put it together in a hurry, there's a lot of illogicality and disadvantages. It is said that the establishment and operation of a security service in the Republic of Serbia is prohibited beyond the provisions of this law. I suppose it's understood that no one under the law can establish security services. It is also said that security services operate on the basis of both the constitution and the law, and that is nothing controversial. But when you say by regulations and other general acts, it becomes controversial, because none of the government's representatives explained what other regulations and general acts are. With this proposal, the law prescribes what security services are, which are the Security Information Agency, as a special organisation, the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, as the authorities of the defence ministry. But with this bill of law, we don't have a clear definition of the co-operation of these three services. Also, this law could have led to the development of the organization of these services. Through this law it is visible and repeated by people in the organisational structure, which means concentration of power, which is not good at all. The Law on the Fundamentals of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia or, more correctly, the Security Services Act, so that this law in the Constitutional Law should be called, should be arranged in addition to what services there are, which are their respective authorities and bodies in these services, as well as the way these services work with other services, and in particular to arrange their supervision. When you talk about overseeing the work of these security services, it should be based on certain principles, and you say: subordination and responsibility of the security service to democratically elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises which are democratically elected authorities, and in particular the question of who will judge it. That it may not be Javier Solana or maybe Natasha Kandic, and it may also be a criminal UN war crimes tribunal headed by Karl del Ponte. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about political neutrality in the work of the Security Service, and in these services all personnel are from the Democratic Party, the DSS and the G17 plus. The Serbian Radical Party, or MPs of the SRS, tried to correct the law's illogicality with amendments. It is up to the MPs and the ruling majority to accept this and thereby correct what their superiors were unable to do properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13577	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic said, and then the Messenger of the people Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13578	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when it comes to article nine, I would only draw attention. There's something running through the little door here. Read Article 9: ‘The President of the Republic may, on his initiative or on the initiative of a member of the Council, call for meetings of the Council of the heads of the other state bodies and institutions and other persons who are not members of the Council’. Ladies and gentlemen, as they miss the motion not to say and suggest there is a place and leaders of opposition parties. Why aren't there leaders of opposition parties here? You don't trust them. And why is that? Will the president now be able to invite Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko and the rest of their company? Please, and call persons who are not members of the Council, and they will learn all the information and data of vital interest to the state and its security. But, ladies and gentlemen, under Article 16. The National Assembly and the Defence and Security Committee have no right to do so. You see, the President or even members of the Council can invite representatives of some other institutions and state bodies. I agree that here it could find a place of certain state authorities, but state authorities that can have some connection to the country's national security and security, but we cannot agree that some institutions can be called on, say, UNHCR. Please, it's a foreign institution. UNHCR, KFOR, UNMIK, please come to the session. That's not good. Other non-members may, by choice, invite whoever he wants and the President of the Republic whom he wants. They can learn all the information, there are no secret documents for them, they can come to a session where the issue of war and peace and war will be debated. What the members of the Security and Defence Committee can find out, that's the norm of Article 16. But the National Assembly says it is overseeing the work of the Security Service directly or through the National Assembly's competent committee, in the Committee's follow-up. The Committee particularly monitors the constitutionality and legality of the work of the security services, monitors the consistency of the work of the security services with the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia. It monitors respect for political, ideological and interesting neutrality in the work of the Security Service. I'll talk about it later, but in this article I wanted to explain and draw your attention to who might have insight into the work of the Secret Service. The Members of Parliament and the Assembly, under these provisions of Articles 16 and 19, you will see no right and no ability to exercise control and that any member of the Committee on Defence and Security attends the session, and that, before the leaders of the opposition parties are not involved in the defence of the state, construction, editing, improvement and improvement of its security.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13579	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13580	At first, I ask the MPs not to laugh. Mr. Markovic, you did not accept the amendment to Article 9 which spoke about how the decision was made. Now, can you explain to me how the Council is going to bring the Rules of Procedure? Rule 10, how will the Council bring the Rules of Procedure? The amendment I'm talking about is to Article 10, since you have not accepted the amendment to Article 9, where we have proposed that a majority vote be made out of the total number of members. You said it would be settled by the rules of procedure. Article 10 states that rules of procedure are to be adopted. Which majority will the rules of procedure be brought? It's supposed to be. Logic? As far as I know, this law doesn't have any touch points with logic. Explain the majority of the rules of procedure that will be adopted under Rule 10, because here it is said in the first position of Article 10. - The Council brings the rules of procedure on its work. When do you bring the Rules of Procedure, which do you usually bring the Rules of Procedure? There's not a lot of them. How's six or three? In the previous article, where was that supposed to be regulated, they said it would be settled by the rules of procedure, but what until the rules of procedure were passed? Something's gone wrong here, something you've been wrong about. I'm gonna take this a little bit seriously, since these goddess democracies are a big cough for you. I'd be interested if someone had informed me that a member of the BIA had been murdered a few days ago, could that information be made public? A half-day ago, a criminal case against six BIA workers was launched for money laundering. Can the public find out? I'm asking this for the sake of order, it doesn't necessarily mean that's the case. I see you're confused, so that's how it is. Why can't the public find out? What's hiding? You don't have that strategic room yet, and you don't have that cage yet, so the leaks of information, I have your insiders, you know I'm jumping over the window, I'm getting the paperwork, and I know everything that's going on. Why isn't that news published? You go to work in the morning, you get information – in Serbia during yesterday day and night there were 160 and some car accidents, with so many tragic etc., and then operational action, etc., so the television is recording how they arrest. What about this information? Why can't we find out if that's true? Forbidden? It's not forbidden, we can find out. What majority of votes will you make a decision to publish this information? You see how I give it to these screenwriters that make shows, "Kursadzijas", etc., how I give valuable material to make your emissions, just to make fun of the DOS, how pointless it is to do what you do. By what law can you make Kostunica and Tadic love and respect each other? Is there a law? Is there a theoretical opportunity to pass a regulation that will make love to those who once had great respect and respect for each other, and even Tadic in 2000 – I left the socialist idea, accepted a liberal-democratic idea when I read a book written together by Kostunica and Cavaski. And you read it, too? So you're thrilled with that idea, too? Whether or not we had a fight, there's a fight. What is this dissension about?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13581	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment to which a new Article 10a is added after Article 10a. The People's MP, Bozidar Koprivica, submitted. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short, only regarding this amendment. We believe that the amendment, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Koprivica, is quite fine and that he has seats in this bill, for the reason that it could be seen clearly and precisely who should be established by the Bureau of Coordination and the Office of the Council. We believe that a new member should be added, which should be said to be established by the Bureau of Coordination and the Office of the Council. For what? Because it's inaccurate in the law that it's proposed who's going to what and who's going to start who, for what chance. So we believe that both the Bureau and the Council's office should establish and elect a National Security Council. Now, these two bodies are separated, and in fact, that's one body that should have been. For what? What was the Bureau supposed to be here? The Bureau is a very dangerous thing. On these occasions, the Bureau in this structure of national security is a very problematic and very dangerous institution. She doesn't belong here in law. If it's a place to have a National Security Council and have a Council Office, enough. We'll have a desk to deal with exclusively operational affairs. Therefore, in short, I would not spend time, this amendment should be accepted because he has his own justification in any case in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13583	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems this law has been made for the presidents of political parties, who make up this coalition and the assembly majority, to control each other. Mr. Markovic, I think that's why you wrote this law. The fact is that in Serbia there is dualism of government and the fact is that they have distributed it extremely well, although they hide it from one another, security services. The president of the DS is controlling the military security services at the moment. It is in favour of the claim and the fact that the security guard of the DS president is working for the military security service, which is known for that famous affair regarding assassin Jackie and the way they move through Belgrade streets. So, the president of the DS controls the military security service, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia controls the BIA, but we all forget another service that has similar or legal powers, which is UBPOK. Who controls UBPOK? Yo, yo, yo, yo, Even in one political party, one president and one vice president have two security services, and all are members of this council. What's the consequence of all this? The result is that the services themselves begin to control each other, to try to get their people into those services, so that everyone is informed of what the other political side is doing. And I've already talked about it before, that many people who worked in those services have left the service, or have been expelled from the ministry because they didn't want to do what they thought was illegal and dishonest, or have left those services because they simply didn't find themselves in that new set, doing their job properly. I ask one question - what about those people who left the service? To be clear, it's about trained operatives, with exceptional experience, who know how to do their job. That's the facts. What about these people? When they left the service, the government completely lost control of these people. If they're expelled, they're out of a job. One logical question is, what are these people going to do? Will they sell their knowledge or experience to someone else? Very possibly. The only thing that prevents them is their morale, but there's a limit now reduced, that moral criterion, that patriotism, that they're trained to defend the state from the outside, and not from the inside, we've lost the state inside, with all these facts that call morale ceases to exist. It ceases to exist because you contributed to it when the people you were arrested by the same operatives were released and the people who did the job were on the street. What brake does a man like that have to stop working for money? I don't think he'll be working for foreign intelligence, but whoever doesn't guarantee that he won't work for organized crime groups, that he gets useful information when any raid is going to be, what the police are going to do, what the prosecution is going to do for organized crime, etc. I repeat, these are people who know their jobs. You lost those people. The question is, what will those who stayed at work do? Because of their experience, how have their colleagues been doing their job, what are they left with? To come to work, to buy newspapers, to drink coffee and read newspapers. If they are doing something that Boris Tadic did not order, he did not order Vojislav Kostunica, he did not order Dragan Jocic, they could lose their job, or worse, to end up in prison. What's left of them? That's exactly what they're waiting for to be ordered. I'm not surprised these people do that, because in order to get operational knowledge and data, they often risk their own lives and their own safety. Arrest spies, you let him go. What's left of these people? You've ruined our jobs. The only thing that services can still use for you is to make lists of political insinuators, to use the services against them, and possibly to fulfill Carla del Ponte's orders, to find another Serb wanted by The Hague tribunal, to deliver it there. But given what kind of people we have left in our service, it's clear that you can't do it either, because these people won't do it, no matter how hard you get in. Mr. Minister, one of the reasons why they won't do it is that the EU's DS policy is. Let's say-- until today. That might make sense. But now that the EU is more than open, four leading EU countries have declared that the Kosovo issue should be resolved as foreseen by Ahtisaari's plan. Serbia is simply losing its position to pursue EU membership, as the EU is openly showing that it wants us to run out of one piece of territory. You can nod your head, roll your eyes, but that's a fact. I totally understand the awkward situation you're in, because one whole tactics of your policy is going down, but that's a fact. Explain, so you can catch that rescue for you and the survival of the political government you call the EU must meet two conditions -- to arrest Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic. These are your terms. You can talk, it's a clear relief to your political situation in the country, because they know when those from the EU step on you, the SRS increases popularity. So it's not a condition, but you won't until you do. That's hard to do, because these people who are supposed to be doing this job are not crazy. It's perfectly normal, if someone takes 15% of your territory, and they've been trained their whole lives to keep the country safe, of course they won't meet Carla del Ponte and DS President Boris Tadic's tasks. These are the problems you're facing, plus you're trying to control the service. Boris Tadic is trying BIA and UBPOK, these others are trying Boris Tadic, so in a circle, and this whole law seems to me made to spy on each other on these tips. Looks like it's all the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13585	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Veljko Kovacevic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13586	The honourable MPs, as well as my previous colleagues, on a proposal -- are deleted, there's one big explanation, and that's already the third explanation, but I'm going to read it again for the public. It is proposed to delete this article because it is Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass laws on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area. That was the same answer to Article 1, and the answer is: 'Amendment is not accepted, since the adoption of the law is necessary in order to regulate the basics of the security service system and Article 1. The draft law determines the subject matter of regulation. ''Article 11 isn't a law, Article 11 is a regulation, he's here to edit what the Bureau of Coordination should do. This is now and the law, and the rules and touches the security office. But since I've already taken the word on the amendment, you've seen that it's been rejected and why, as in these other proposals, I want to tell you that it's about this security, and national security, and the security of the military. Article 4 states: Security services are a security-intelligence agency, a military-security agency and a military-intelligence agency, as the authorities of the defence ministry. You see, if it were in the General Staff, there wouldn't be the next situation we had in the Army Law and the Defense Act. Let me read you a detail of why I was telling you this and why I'm telling you right now that we can't put this military intelligence in defense of the defense law. Here, look. I'm across the street from a town that's in Romania. The border of our coast towards Romania is exactly 232 km. Look now, if the Military Intelligence Service informed Stankovic, I don't know if it started with Mr Tadic, Stankovic, and in turn, who was the minister, and whether this last minister got this information, and in the army law we didn't have a navy. Look now, for security of the state border, Romania is recruiting forces from the 10th-sector border police sector, Mehedinti, Grobet, that's what it's called. They are located in Turn Severin - the strength of a battalion. That's right in Milanovac, across the street from Milanovac. So it's across from Big City and so it's across from Kusjak, and Kusjak is at Negotina's. So that's five border battalions of their navy. For the security of the state border they also use water facilities that are anchored in Turn Severin, with the following water facilities - the VF 50 command ship, that is a ship of 60 meters long, 12.30 meters high; their Navy; two GRD-type ships, which are so few larger ships, are not 60, but 40 m, all with cannons; four fast-intervention patrols; one fast-supply ship. Across the border of the Lower Milanovac, i.e. across the Tekija, Orsha opposite the Tekia, two GB-type ships, means two 40 m ships, extremely well-armed. They are ships that collect mines and lay mines, meaning in the Danube, and mine hunters, as well as layers; two fast speedboats for interventions, one residential boat for the accommodation of sailors. Look what it is across from our borders. The following units are also located in Turn Severin: Motorised regiment, Artillery regiment PVO, Engineering Battalion, Special Facts Company, Summer-lander track for smaller aircraft and helicopters. Part of the state border security ships across from Gradišče and Kusjak have two large ships and two speedboats for fast facts. Now look what we had. The Danube border, located in Veliko Gradište, ours -- it's been abolished -- they've secured a state border of 232 km - six ships of type RPČ 211, they're already known, already seen continuously, by ships, fast those ships; five speedboats of type CN 5 21, they're for interventions. We had five caralas where the army was. Now there's nothing there, and against this force I've read to you, we've got three or four officers with two patrol jeeps. That's how, approximately, to see if the intelligence service or already in charge of the security of the state border, the military has informed the General Staff, or all those we've listed under this law that it needs to be informed, whether it did so, so we've abolished the river navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13587	Thank you. Is anyone else answering after the amendment? He has the word Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 11. The bill, I must say, is very problematic. Will we allow us to have such a desk as Beba Popovic, which will be the alpha and omega for the security service. Imagine, the Bureau of Coordination, Operational Coordination, the work of the Security Service and the implementation of the Council's conclusions on issues under its jurisdiction. The Bureau shall be a special coordination body, setting out tasks carried out by operational coordination of the activities of the Security and Security Services and other national authorities and thus coordinating their activities; determines how operational coordination is carried out in certain cases, imagine. The Bureau now decides to operate on a national MP or one citizen of the Republic of Serbia, this is an individual case. And he precisely sets out tasks that operational methods and measures have to be applied to that person. What's he doing next? It's based on mixed working groups. Please, setting up mixed working groups, putting in charge of the Bureau, can't be a more dangerous matter for the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, if we need to remind ourselves of something, which is, if this law is passed, it will be an opportunity for you, Mr. Minister, to make a declaration of that law, as King Alexander preached on January 6, 1929. This is what King Alexander said: "The hour has come when there shall be no intercessors between the people and the king. '"Mr. Minister, there must be no intermediation between the government and the parliament and the people anymore. Be careful what the King further says: 'Parliamentary order and all our political life are getting more and more negative markings, from which the people and the states so far have nothing but damage. '"What does he say about parliamentaryism and parliament? I pay particular attention to this because we attach importance to Parliament and control of the security service. ''Parliamentarism, which as a political means by the tradition of my unforgettable father, remained my ideal, began to abuse blind political passions to the extent that it had become an obstacle to every fruitful work in the country. '"What was that? Six-year dictatorship. He says - there can be no more intermediaries between him and the people and parliament. I'm saying this because this bureau can't have that kind of intelligence. Whoever had any understanding of the security service - the authority of the Bureau of Coordination, giving him prerogatives to be able to handle operational work, means taking over the authority and the Council, and even some authority of the President of the Republic. That desk, please, a lot of things will work that the President himself won't know what he's doing. That's why we find the Bureau's jurisdiction inadmissible as proposed. We are against this institution because it will only have harmful, not beneficial consequences for the state of Serbia and its people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13589	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (No) Ambassador Predrag Mikic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The amendment reads: Article 12 is deleted. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee suggest that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 12 is also problematic, unacceptable, absolutely no one can act on it. Whoever acts will be in violation of both the Constitution and the law relating to its application. It's a body, I can tell you, who they all have to come to, remember. Ask those operatives and ask the security officers, and they all have to come to the bureau and settle their accounts, as king. The intensity of this law is to put all the services under the control of the ruling parties and practically execute the abolition of the Prerogatives of the Defence and Security Committee. I'm saying this because this body that is proposed is actually taking over the intelligence of the Defence and Security Committee. This bill, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, introduces the National Security Council, the Bureau of Coordination, the Council Office, which practically comes down to zero. When you look at who's entering that body, the Bureau, among other things, is the Republic Public Prosecutor. What's a republican prosecutor doing in a security institution? And you don't have a Supreme Court president. Then we're not even. Therefore, the legislative and executive powers and courts are not equal. Therefore, the Republic Public Prosecutor is no place here. Why is this supposed to be a republican prosecutor here? To find himself at hand and if the Bureau decides in half an hour, they will find the one in Vranje, or in Leskovac, or in Subotica, and he will be arrested by order of the Bureau, because a Republic Public Prosecutor was immediately found at hand. He is now serving these short - term and daily uses in a specific case. He doesn't belong in the Bureau. If it is, then please, it should have been the President of the Supreme Court. Now you see here, this is a broad. I'm against the Bureau. I know what that can be. It's going to be an institution that's very dangerous, people, that's going to arrest you like rabbits, you have no idea what they can do. I'm telling you, they're gonna arrest people, they're gonna operate, they're gonna listen, they're gonna listen, they're gonna film, they're gonna follow secretly, they can even determine who needs to be executed. Please, you don't know that, but anything is possible. I'm not saying that someone's gonna do it specifically, but, God forbid, someone can find it and even do it, it's very dangerous. He should believe that reasonable people are working in that service right now. God forbid some come to abuse this function and this institution, and in this way the state faces a sixth-year dictatorship. That is why we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendment should be accepted, which is proposed in front of the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13591	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) Radovan Milovankic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Radovan Milovankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13592	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as of February 14, it was simply not a law that had more amendments, and that the text of the proposed amendments had been deleted. I'll keep going in that tone. The amendment I have made concerns part three, directing and coordinating the work of the Security Service. Amendments proposed to Article 13. The proposal for a law on the foundations of the Security Service of the Republic of Serbia requires that this member be deleted. The proposed text refers to the position on co-operation with the Council. The same text of the proposal defines the duties and responsibilities of the national authorities. You just don't know if the proposed text is more funny and comical or tragic. If I do not turn out to be a cartoon, it is very clear in the proposal of Article 13 that if the State Authority, or the Service, does not cooperate with the Council, then the Secretary of the Council will inform the Council that it will invite the executives of the authorities to take action to co-operate. If it's democracy, it's a lot. It is precisely in light of the government's rejection of the amendments that the government is calling for strengthening democratic principles. Such democratic principles in the security services have been liquids since the Sabre action. But to return to the amendment. Article 3 The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is envisioned to pass a law on security services, not on the basis of arrangements for the security service of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. If they were to pass such a law, it would mean the existence of a federal state and Member States that would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law that regulates the basics of the arrangements. Since in real, real life this is not a fact, then neither Article 13 nor the bill is sustainable. So you need to pull them back. In addition to everything outlined, related to Article 13, and in the work - Safety Service Oversight Control is not well proposed: firstly, the general regulations, i.e. preventing possible violations of the rules, are not explicitly stated; secondly, without clear indications of the security service development strategy; thirdly, the possibility of present political volunteering, as my predecessors from the SRS parliamentary club have already explained quite a bit. The fourth, weak, almost absent possibility of control, I mean security services; the fifth, which could be related to this bill, to the lack of transparency in work. Here I would like to remind you that just now the BIA report was one of the reports that were not available to the Commissioner for Information Rodoljub Sabic. All in all, it can be concluded, there are a number of obvious failures in the work of the security service. Often in the name of the people, a bad service has been done to that very people of these services. Examples of "Sablje", "Socrates", etc. The mark is indelible in the name of the so-called so-called. Democratic Security Services. Unfortunately, this law does not go in the direction of solving vital problems of the service of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13593	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's something really surprising now that you've put into law. He says this way, Article 13: 'The competent state authorities are obliged to cooperate with the Council, in accordance with their constitutional and legal position, on matters of the Council's jurisdiction, and above all with the Council's conclusions. ''I ask a question, which state body won't or shouldn't act if his next Prime Minister or any minister? Or this is the only one written for the Ministry. You know, you've formed a government not by the principle of unity of power, but by the principle of division of power. Each party has its own resources, its own ministries, and none of the members of the other political party who make up your coalition can enter. Any minister in the government can do literally whatever he wants, and if the president of the party making up the assembly majority, then perhaps the monarch, king, emperor or god could be stronger than him in that ministry and in that government. Do you want this member to force ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia to do their job? If it is, then it's okay that it says here. But if it is, such a government shouldn't exist. Such a government should not be supported by the National Assembly. I guess that's the problem. The second point is said: ''If the competent state authority does not co-operate with the Council or does not implement the Council's conclusions, the Council Secretary shall, without delay, inform the Council, which may, in that case, call on the Head of State to take all measures provided for by law to establish co-operation with the Council or to implement the Council's conclusion. ''Explain this to me, if a state authority does not follow the conclusion, the instructions, the Council's request, so you will call on the Head of State to talk to him, to convince him, until he begins to meet the Council's conclusions or the Council's terms. That's even more convincing of the ministry. This should not be resolved by the Council, the nice president of parties forming the assembly majority, Boris Tadic, DS President Vojislav Kostunica, DSS President Velja Ilic, New Serbia President Mladjan Dinkic, president of the G17 Plus, to solve the problem at a coalition meeting. What do you need advice for? Why make a legal commitment that four leaders of political parties agree by law to have an obligation to what they agree. No other state body, except for these bodies leading these four, must fulfil the orders of the Prime Minister, the President of the State, not to speak of anything else. So the question arises, why do you simply write such laws, why there are such members in these laws. Looks to me like nothing's right in that coalition of yours. Only problems will be now that you call the elections, how you will determine the candidate, you from the DS, you have your candidate, these do not yet have, you need these others to beat Tomislav Nikolic, but that will not be enough for you either. Mr. President of the Assembly, call the elections as soon as possible for Mr. Tomislav Nikolic to take Serbia into his own hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13595	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have a very difficult duty to defend the bill you have not written. I deeply sympathise with your position, I don't think it's really easy for you. The Serbian government always gives you hot potatoes in your hands to defend unsuspecting legal solutions. You're a good lawyer and you have a lot of parliamentary experience, but even you can't defend something that's really bad. Here, Mr. Minister, MP Ognjen Mihajlovic has proposed his amendment to delete Article 14. The bill, which reads this -- funds for the work of the Council are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. At first glance, the Government seemed to have no sense of the amendment, but if you read the reasoning of the bill, then you will see that the amendment is not meaningless, or that it affects the very essence of what it says in the bill, or in its reasoning. Therefore, Article 14 reads: "The funds for the work of the council are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget". A man would now assume when he reads this norm that some financial resources are needed for the work of the Council and that these financial resources must be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So far, we have not had a National Security Council in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it is a new state institution, and of course, like all state institutions, and this one must be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Look, Mr. Minister, what's the explanation of that part of the bill? That's Section 4 of the argument. Otherwise, the very name of that department is ridiculous. Mr. Secretary, I know it's fun for you to talk to your party colleagues, especially those from the DSS, they rarely show up at the National Assembly, so it's an attraction for you, but pay attention. Watch out, section 4 of the argument is called this - the reasons for implementing this law. This is a new term that I don't think has appeared in legislative practice so far. So, the reasons for implementing this law; then it says, for the implementation of this law, Mr. Minister, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and you say in article 14 - the funds for the work of the Council are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What it says in article 14 and what it says in the explanation is pointless. So either you're going to finance it from the budget, and then it's necessary to provide additional funding, because it's a new institution for which no funds have been allocated in the current budget, or what it says in the context of the bill's proposal is not necessary to provide additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, Mr. Minister, explain to us, we in the SRS can't figure out what the promoter was going to say. Whether he meant to say it was necessary to secure the funds or not. If it's not necessary, then the next question is, how do you think you're funding the National Security Council? You put three administrative bodies in the bill instead of dealing with security services first and foremost, you devote most of the bill to some administrative bodies that are not security services. The National Security Council, then you have the National Security Bureau, then the National Security Council Office. So, three administrative bodies and now the question is, how do you think you're funding all this? If you do not finance from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from which funds these institutions will be financed. Whether they will be financed by a Western state, whether they will be touched by Western intelligence services, whether they will work for free, or honorably. How do you imagine the National Security Council works if it is not necessary to provide additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Minister, it would be good if those who propose the laws read a little of what their officers wrote to them. This is how they bring you, both guilty and debtor, into a very difficult position, to blush here, not know what to say, look at the floor, and you simply can't answer some basic questions. These are cardinal mistakes, and it's just proof that those who write bill proposals don't understand much about their work anymore. In fact, it's only the result of one basic thing, which is that you don't write bill proposals. You get the bill. Law proposals in the Republic of Serbia, as one said, are written by translators and dactylographs. So someone translates what you get from abroad and someone has to type it. We have no illusion in the SRS that some Serbian government official wrote this bill. Even officials who don't have to have a law degree know these things can't happen in one very important law. However, you have an explanation for everything and you say it's technical law. The law on the President of the Republic was a technical law, so the bill on elections for the President of the Republic was a technical law, so here's the law on security services again technical law. So it doesn't matter what it says in the normative part of the bill, what it says in the light of that law, it's technical law, there are relatively few members, let's do it and that we can say, yes, we respected what it says in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we passed the law and we can discuss elections for the President of the Republic. What are your laws, what they say, it's none of your business. So, Mr. Minister, the Serbian government has put you in an unembarkable position. You can't give any too much answer to what the MPs of the SRS are telling you. These ladies from the DS parliamentary benches are getting something, they may have something to say, so I invite them to come out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone and explain what it is, in fact, the government wanted to say whether extra funds are needed or not, and whether that means that the normative part of the bill is written by one man or one group of people, and that the explanation is written by someone else. What we have in the bill, this is something unrecorded in our legislative practice, that one is written in the normative part of the law, and that something else is written in an explanation. The very name of this part of the argument says: Reasons for the implementation of this law. That's ridiculous. What does that mean? If you, as mind heads of the DS, can explain it, I would appreciate it, because today, December 10th, around 21:30, you would learn something new. Mr. Minister, if you're capable, go out for a pay phone and explain what the government was trying to say, because we in the SRS can't understand it, and apparently you can't, because you're laughing at what kind of nonsense the Serbian government could put into the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13597	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13598	It's a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. There's something that's the mandatory content of every bill. Here it is said that the argument must contain, the first indent, constitutional basis; second, reasons for the adoption of the law; third, an explanation of the basic legal institutes; I must say it contains this bill; fourth, an assessment of the amount of financial resources to implement the law. That, under four, in the implementation of Mr Milan Markovic, is the reason for implementing this law. So we have particular reasons to bring it in, and then we have particular reasons to carry it out. These are entirely different reasons, but there is no assessment of the necessary financial resources. Mr. Martinovic made a link between Article 136. Rules of Procedure and Article 14. The bill of law, and I saw that there was something wrong, the mental set of the man who knocked over this was flat chicken. Mr. Markovic has great experience as an MP, he knows he can't do this, the poor guy has to sit here, he's caught up with it, because the reasons for the emergency procedure are the main reasons, which is - without this law, Dulic can't call the election tomorrow. That's the whole story of what's going on here. Mr. Markovic, we will try to keep this on record from the SRS. I guarantee you that in "The Great Serbia" this whole bill will be published, with many comments on what is written. But you'll never clear what you wrote in Article 13(2). You see, the National Security Council's conclusion has a level of constitutional norm. So all state authorities must give priority to the conclusion, not to the Constitution, the law or any other sublaw adopted under the law. The conclusion of this council, or these brothers that are gathered, has such meaning. This is real evidence of a violation of constitutionality and legality, above all constitutionality, because it's being built up as a norm. Why do you make such a point once? Why are you giving meaning to something that is -- go to me, come to me. Of course, there's no answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13599	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's the problem here? I'll tell you something from experience you don't know. The marriage had special funds. These special funds were managed by the chief of the Ubiquitous. Chief Udba spent funds from a special fund, and budget funds. What was he doing with those funds? He paid informants to rat out citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in 1966, it came across a harsh conviction. As a result, the service suffered a major shipwreck. What counterpart Martinovic said, Mr. Minister, I'm not sure, you're an experienced and good lawyer, what's said on page 4, section IV, the reasons for implementing this law, I guess you should say: the means to implement this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislators, you have proposed hundreds of laws, are still proposed, but you say: the means to enforce this law are necessary or not necessary. Look, what is the contradiction between article 14 and argument? In an explanation, said counterpart Martinovic, it is not necessary to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. However, Article 14 states: "The funds for the work of the council are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget." To be clear, this can't be ironed out, blended in and straightened out. No way. It is true that it will need funds for the work of the Council to be provided from the budget. Then it had to be said that funds from the budget would be provided, but since this law will come into force soon, then it had to be said that there would be so much and so much funding from the budget this year, and for the next year it would be planned from a new budget or from a rebalance, as the colleague said. However, I repeat, the control of these funds must be strong, must be subject to the financial and budget inspection of the Republic of Serbia. Why? So they wouldn't experience what was in 1966. It is certain that these funds will have to be provided from the budget. Therefore, this is not well regulated. Mr. Markovic, I'm surprised you missed it so this doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13601	The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13602	I'm trying, I'm listening very carefully to all the remarks. There are less than ten amendments left, so let me answer one part of your remarks. First of all, it's okay, there's an obvious error in the typing. I can't understand the need for three MPs to come out and say that. So someone who knocked is wrong. You all know exactly what this is about. It's not about the reasons for law enforcement, it doesn't exist, it's about the means needed to enforce the law, so I'd ask you not to make a topic out of it now, a question, someone who works for 12,000 dinars, stole his mistake, let's not insult him. If it's all right with you, I'll check with the Dactile Service who typed this. Let me say a few things. A colleague complained that a neighboring country had a 60 - metre - long boat and a 12 - foot [12 m] altitude. I don't know if it's necessary, it's not up to you or me to decide. I don't think the Danube needs a 60-metre-long boat, 12 meters high. Someone else thinks we should, but it has nothing to do with whether or not we have a Navy. Because the river fleet was never an integral part of the Navy, never, it was always part of the land army. Speaking of which, don't, you need to know a little. I'm not much of an expert, but you could have known that. The river fleet was never part of the Navy. She was always part of the mainland army, so it had nothing to do with our organizational changes. Mr. Peter Jojic, don't scare the citizens. So you're really scaring the citizens. We have never had this degree of control established today by this law. So we didn't have one, and you know we didn't have one. Neither was the oversight of the National Assembly as it was established by this law, nor were the civil authorities having any effect on security services, and that is as well known to you as I am. Security services within the Yugoslav Army, which now exist as the authorities of the defence ministry, were once within the military and had no contact with civilian structures made up of the Ministry of Defence. It is our great civilizational shift that we have singled out the services from the General Staff and put them as the government's authority in the ministry and established a civil relationship between the security service and the civilian authorities. You say, "Someone's going to be arrested, etc." I believe you know that, and I really think this is a little bit of a political campaign, what you were talking about. Therefore, members of the security service, federal, former, do not have the right to use the powers of the interior ministry authorities, or authorised services at the interior ministry, and do not have the right to arrest. They don't have the right to do that. Security-information agencies had the right to arrest and still have the right to arrest only when it comes to criminal acts in the field of jurisdiction of the BIA, acting as members of the interior ministry. They're just as dangerous, if you think they're even dangerous, and I don't think they are, they're just as dangerous for us citizens, as they are for the Department of the Interior. Everyone has to work under the Constitution and the law, and the rights and freedoms of us, the citizens of this country, are equally protected, no matter who's on the other side. Someone mentioned, roof service should exist or shouldn't exist, that's one topic. We've decided as a state for this system and by my deep conviction this is one big step forward. We may not have this roof service here, so let's say that we have in the right sense that word security intelligence community, but it's a big step forward to overcome the security and competition between the security services that have ruled this country so far. Someone by collecting, operating work comes up with some information and keeps it within their service, so there's no communication, there's bad communication, so there's some kind of competition, so, Maltena, what one colleague said, they collect data about each other. This is a big step forward. There are different systems. They exist where there's some special roof service, so she's doing, say, analysis. There are systems where the technique is isolated in a special place, so if you want to apply the technique, you have these earlier measurements of agent, function, infiltration, etc., but when you go to the measurements of the technique, then you go separately, so you're looking for a special request. I think it can cause some problems in function. We've defined ourselves for this system, but it's a big step forward. Someone assesses this and says, "The law is bad." No, the law is extremely good. He's basically a big step forward for our security-intelligence system. One colleague says – why can the President of the Council invite the managers of other state bodies, institutions and other people who do not want to? As far as state authorities and institutions are concerned, so because we have found in Article 3 that our security services are part of a single security intelligence system. The security-intelligence system of one country is not just a security service, it is made up of many institutions, all institutions that can participate in the security-intelligence policy of one country in one way or another. It may be the Ministry of Justice, it may be some other special organisation, the authority of the administration, but it is logical that the Council meetings can be called, as you just said, and the president of the largest opposition party or representative, etc. That makes perfect sense. He does not come to the Council to be informed, but he comes to discuss at that time a matter of importance and is in charge of the Council. I don't understand why you made that remark. A colleague says -- it should be deleted -- there is no recording and work of security services in the Republic of Serbia beyond the provisions of this law. That's not true. That's got to stand. When a division of security services is carried out, safety services in theory and practice exist in different entities. There are also supranationals. That's how it's the latest now. It says: supranational security services, intelligence systems, etc. Very often there are security-intelligence systems either in practice in parallel or in history there were security services, i.e. intelligence services within political parties. Here, I'll finish. So, you see, it's a good thing I just got back to you, so I'm still gonna get back to you in the end so I can tell you everything. So that's what happened. That is why it is important to say – it is forbidden. You've put a lot of arguments out here, believe me, with all due respect, we've accepted some things, I don't know why you insist on them. We've accepted amendments to Article 3, you were absolutely right, we've accepted that, and can't control anyone other than those established by the Constitution. I don't think there was any reason to comment on these questions here for two hours, and we accepted that. We accepted in advance, I say, in Article 15, but I don't know which colleague, in point 1 of point 1, is also the amendment. We've accepted another amendment, now I don't know exactly, we're taking a mistake, there's been a printing error while typing. But really, these other remarks, believe me, maybe I'm not some expert, it's my humble knowledge, I taught a little bit at the Faculty of Security, I'm an associate of that university, my humble knowledge tells me that I'm not sure that you've absorbed this matter in the best way. Even if he did, it's impossible for 30 of you to know this matter. Maybe one of you knows, but 30 people can't know this matter. (President: I thank you. ) As far as strategic and doctrinal documents are concerned, I will leave it for final reporting, since there is an assessment here that strategic documents are legal acts, and that cannot stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13603	That we have little in the final word of Mr. Minister. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. There are four minutes left under this amendment for the SRS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Milan Markovic would be best off defending himself with silence. If he had kept quiet, we would have remained convinced that he was a wise man. This is the only way he's told us how little he really understands himself about the matter that this law needs to regulate. Mr. Milan Markovic, the next thing you know. As MPs, we have received a bill on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, this formulation does not comply with Article 3(2). Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the bill was signed by Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Vojislav Kostunica, as far as I know, is a doctor of constitutional law. You're saying -- it's some clerk at the Ministry's fault that he wrongly typed the bill and you say -- what are you going to do, man doing for 12,000 dinars. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that the first rule of the War of Slava Kostunica at the end of 2004. the year adopted a strategy, i.e. adopted the State Administration Reform Strategy. One of the objectives of this strategy, is that, Mr. Minister, the state administration is well paid. It is the end of 2007 and it has been three years since the adoption of the strategy, for you unions of those employed in the state administration are announcing a general strike. You say yourself that these people are underpaid. Why don't you pay them more? Why don't you pay these people according to their knowledge, their effort, the energy they're investing in, etc.? Therefore, it cannot be an explanation for the fact that the bill is bad and because what it says in the normative part is not in line with what it says in the explanation. So don't blame yourself on the department officials. It's the Serbian government's fault, or it's the legislator's fault, and it's your fault. You, Minister, if you had a little political correctness, you would have told us at the beginning, when you explained this bill, - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed a technical mistake, instead of the reasons for implementing this law should stand: the means to implement this law. And there is no need for the Messengers of the people to call on us, to ask what this is about, and then for you to go out for a pay phone and say, "Well, you know, it's a press mistake." But it's not, Mr. Minister, a press error. I wish it was just a printing mistake. This is about the fundamental flaw of the bill. Article 14 says - the funds for the work of the Council are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it explains - there is no need to provide additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not printing mistakes, it's cardinal, it's material mistakes. You failed to answer this question. I don't know where you get the right to say that the MPs of the SRS don't understand each other in this matter, or to say, they may understand one or two, and the others don't understand each other. It turns out no one understands this matter in DS and DSS because no one went out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone and helped Minister Milan Markovic to somehow break out of such a bad bill, but the man himself manages to know and know, blame the civil servants, and the low-paid, and the press mistake, which is the government's fault. Mr. Minister, the MPs of the SRS are extremely well understood in this matter. Your explanation of what the bill says absolutely does not stand. You didn't know yourself that this mistake existed until we showed you. That means you haven't even read this bill properly. You may have read the normative part of the bill, but you certainly haven't read the argument. You are the last one who can honor the MPs of this assembly that they have little understanding of this matter. The government of Serbia has little understanding in this matter, and that is how it was proved to you by the MPs of the SRS, who have tabled quality amendments to which we have tried to correct the bad text of the bill. Mr. Minister, you sit in this room a little longer, listen carefully to what the MPs of the SRS say, and you, and your colleagues from the DS, will learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13605	The word is Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13606	Mr. Dulic, it's not good when the minister is very wise, so eventually he wants to be extremely efficient and smart. Mr. Markovic told us that the dactylographer made a mistake here, but he didn't tell us if there was a mistake here, so here, here, here. Were there any mistakes ahead? We found a million mistakes. That's the first thing. Another thing, you say - we as a state. Who the hell are you like a country? The exposure started - we as a state have concluded. A country - yes. Mr. Markovic - state. We're like the state. You're not a country, you're a government, coalition, kilava, etc. Mr. Markovic, you've shown the elemental indifference of some very important things. Mr. Veljko Kovacevic read to you here what's across the street from his house on the Romanian side, so he told you - they use their Navy to secure the Danube. You turned smart so you said our river navy was never a Navy. The man didn't even talk about it, but there's something you've mixed up here, storks, sights, specialties, you've confused everything as a lecturer at Dragisic's. There's something you taught there. Mr. Markovic, you must know that in the territory of the former SFRY with the National Security Council, Franjo Tudjman first set out. You are an expert, you know, the Alliance of Safety – Franjo Tudjman, so he was Miroslav Tudjman, so he was Markica Rebić, and when they were at the CK, and later on, etc. When you make comparisons, when you use the same terms, take care of what you associate. You're saying there's a party intelligence service. What's the name of DS Intelligence? Tell me, what's the real name of DS Intelligence? You said that in theory and practice there are intelligence services like this and such, but there are intelligence services of parties. What's your intelligence called? I'd like to hear it, find out if it's B92, Studio B, BIRD, BIRN, what's their name, etc. Or this Dragisic college, it's possible it's your intelligence service. Just two more sentences. Mr. Markovic, tell the dactylographer who typed and this gentleman what he signed - Carla del Ponte ruined you a few hours ago. It is that she was drunk after the press conference she held, and that Vukcevic who gave her the painting did not bear fruit. In the Security Council she gave her last report, in two days they have their last press conference and then she goes to Argentina. Two of her mandates did everything she asked of you. I remember that voluntary departure of Sreten Lukic, so he forgot his glasses at the Second Surgical Clinic, the rest of them there, so the poor guy had to dress him there for the first time to appear before the court. It's a good thing these topics fit. It's no good that you're resuming the debate because this is in a hurry to call the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13607	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened to my colleague and Mr. Minister Markovic. But, Mr. Markovic, you're a man who studied law, a graduate lawyer, a longtime lawyer, but I have to tell you, you haven't been involved, nor have you ever had a chance in life to work in the service of security, to work in public or state security. I have to tell you, something that is impossible to defend, doesn't need to be defended. You were only 5% correct when you said - this was a dactylograph error. Don't do that, don't get your dactylographs all screwed up. This is not a feather error. This is a scandalous mistake. You don't go out with this in front of Milosh. Mr. Minister, the law to regulate and to unite the work of the three services had to contain 50 members and be made public. As the German says - twice pass, you better hold. Mr. Minister, you confessed because you were caught in trouble. This law is not good. It contains only 22 members. Now that you're in trouble, I'm going to tell you an example. The law isn't good. Don't tell anyone this is a good law, because of your future plans and your career. I had a chance to have my militia officer for seventy-seven years, an officer, perform a police service, and see a burglar, break into a supermarket. The militiaman recognizes this burglar, knows he's a returner, repeatedly breaks into stores, enters a militiaman and asks him -- well, Carlo, what is it? He says it's an accident at work. It's an accident at your job where you found yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13609	Here's a word from the MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you as a doctor know that the most important thing is for a person to be directed into space, time and personality. Unfortunately, our minister wasn't very space-oriented because he thought at the same time that this was an amphitheater, where he lectured his students, and that he had so much knowledge that he could educate the MPs. Completely inappropriate, he forgot that he was also a National MP. Obviously, there are a number of technical mistakes, and cooperation with your secretary, whether it's technical or some other kind of you know it better. The president of the assembly tried to warn you not to answer the word or to answer in the end. You said only a dozen minutes. He tried his skills again, although not experienced, President Oliver Dulic tried to skillfully move on to the next amendment. But if we go to Article 15, the Chief Supervisor, it is defined: "The surveillance of the work of the Security Service is based on the following principles: the subordination and responsibilities of the security service to the democratically elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia. '"Is there a technical error? What elections are undemocratic, and what are the authorities or MPs chosen in a non-democratic way? Here, tell me one election or any of the MPs that was chosen in an inadequate and undemocratic way? Whether it's the same problem with the secretary or the secretary or it's misspelled, or if you've misdirected it. Even with the amendment, we tried to let you know that there are no non-democratically elected authorities in the Republic of Serbia. We tried to tell you that you have to correct this cardinal error. For you, it's a problem of a technical nature and it doesn't touch you. If you weren't in charge of writing this law, if you're in charge of defending something you can't defend, it's better for you and for everyone, to listen, that if you have arguments to bring them out and educate us, it's hard. You can try to educate us a little bit, but as you can see, it's you who are in the role of being educated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13611	Thank you. Is anyone else answering after the amendment? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13612	Mr. Dulic, in the end, I'm going to come to the conclusion that this law was actually written by some dactylographer, but when I read article 15, I think the coffee cook may have been involved. It's not funny, this is sad. Please pay attention to chapter IV - Oversight Oversight Service Oversight. Then follow -- the principles of surveillance, which means what the principles apply to the conduct of surveillance. Who should adhere to those principles - the one who conducts surveillance? What do the principles mean - those are the rules used by the supervisory officer? Who under this law oversees the authority of the National Assembly, one of those organs. Now look at the principles. If they're principles, they apply to the one who controls. Alinea first says - the subordination and responsibilities of the security service to the democratically elected authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I think you've adopted an amendment to delete this "democratic," but that doesn't matter. So how can the passive state of those who need to be controlled be the principle of the work of those who control? The second indent also says, let's say - what should be applied by the Assembly Security Committee. That would be about this - political, ideological, and interesting neutrality of the security service. What does that mean? It's a totally missed page. The principles applicable to the active party are given as a liability by a passive party. If the title of this member or at the outset were to say that these indents refer to security services, that they must be allowed, that they must be subordinated to civil authorities, that would make sense. It's all weird in here. Why? Because when the coffee cook brought coffee, the Dactilographer transferred one letter and, I'm sure, she missed one paragraph. Now, whether the dactylographer was Kostunica, and cafe cook Boris Tadic I don't know, but I think a thorough investigation will show. Now they're joking aside, I hope they have good ideas about those who make burlesques with the Democratic Party. I can go on, no problem, I don't mind these here. So, what did the writer mean? He wanted to promote something that should oblige the security services to be subordinated to the authorities and subordinated in that sense to enable their work to be controlled. Why? Because they're both capable and organized to reverse that control. Here's a classic example of how this happened in our National Assembly. In the last term, as lightning from the blue sky echoed news that the chairman of the Security Committee would be Milorad Mircic, an SRS MP. What did those B.I.A. guys come up with? They little by little organise those mandatory meetings when controlling their work in the form of work reports, six months. They organize that session in the seat of Bia, somewhere else or they bring it here and they say, "No reading, under the embargo, can only be read or picked up by some trucks and drive them out there, so they let them read." They read what's in "Politics" every day. Run one of their officials says -- when we wanted to stop control from the National Assembly, we figured out how to do it. How? We all declared it to be a state, official or some other secret, so Mircic had to keep his mouth shut, he couldn't tell the public what was going on on on the Defence and Security Committee. So one of these principles is really necessary, but not as the patient state of the one that needs to be controlled, but as the patient state of the one that is being controlled. But it's all mixed up here -- probably some Slovenian text, so translation, again, Dactilographers, coffee cooks, etc. This second indent is absolutely illogical, because if one who needs to control the work of these organs and services is freed from politics and ideology, so the world view is freed from one system of values, then the question is -- and what kind of control is that? In what way would that control differ from the one that happens on "Polygraph" on B 92, in Studio B and on other TVs -- there's no difference? This is exactly the kind of control that needs to be loaded or encumbered by some kind of high-value court. Where's that court of honor? The court of values is probably in the national interests or what you say -- how to warn security challenges, inconveniences, preventable actions. But you have freed this text of the law from any court of law. You were afraid of an ideological view of the world. Why? So the national programme, or system of national values in one country, is an ideological programme characterized by one nation, for one territory. The problem is that this value has been established in a democratic procedure and this expresses the interests of a nation, not as so far, the interest of the people in co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Like what? Unreserved. In the end, it turns out that Carla del Ponte is just an alcoholic, like Natasa Kandic. Or what you did in 2001, 15 of them here are accused of the most serious crimes against peace, and then Batic says, so how can we enter Europe if Solana cannot come to our country? Faster and better to the Republic Public Prosecutor's warrant, he instructed, the county's abandonment of prosecution and they're free. What was that court of honor? What was the interest in that? Whose interest was it? Interest was the DOS that came to power. Why? Perhaps you believed in those six and a half billion, perhaps you believed that Serbia could rise from the ashes and turn out to be something new. But there's no such thing. It doesn't exist. The court of law must also be present when monitoring how these services work. You don't care about that. So when she wrote, the dactylographer came in, and it was made like this. Of course, the dactylographer was Kostunica and cafe cook Boris Tadic. Come out and say it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13613	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You've got four minutes on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13614	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this issue of political and ideological neutrality can be viewed with two aspects. If the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to say that security services in their work must not represent the interests and policies of a particular political party in the Republic of Serbia, then that can be understood. On the other hand, such a provision can be very dangerous and ask a question, whose interests are in fact security services in the Republic of Serbia. You see, one of the best books of the SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj is called "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism". Nationalism is a second name for patriotism, or for love of its homeland and its people. So, nationalism, patriotism, patriotism, whatever you want, is one ideology. The question is then whether members of the security service should handle the idea of patriotism, or Serbian nationalism, and whether they should protect the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens or the interests of another state and other people in their work. We in the SRS believe that those working in security services must be fed up with the ideology of nationalism, or patriotism, and that, above all, they work in the interests of the state of Serbia, the Serbian people and the citizens of Serbia. They must not, in that sense, be ideologically neutral, say what we care about Serbia, the Serbian people, the Serbian citizens, we are ideologically neutral. Such a provision can be very dangerous. If that were the case, it confirms the following statement. A few years ago, a high-ranking officer at the time of the Serbia-Montenegro Army, otherwise close, probably to these democratic circles, said that the notion of a country in the 21st century is completely imaginary and that he doesn't know what it means, at the time of Euro-Atlantic integration, at a time when the whole of Europe stands under the umbrella of NATO, he says - I don't understand what country we're fighting for. I fear that this formulation in the bill actually gives us the basis for such people, to say what we care about both Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, we are ideologically neutral, we are doing according to the rules of some profession, skills, and Serbia, the Serbian people, whether their interests are at stake, what we can do, we are ideologically neutral, unbiased and we are not involved. So they can't have security services in that sense being ideologically neutral. And that they should be ideologically biased, i.e. to protect, above all, Serbia's interests and the interests of its citizens. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you had to delete this provision from the bill or at least go out to the Serbian Parliament and explain what you mean by ideological and political neutrality. This way, MPs and citizens of Serbia, who are monitoring this transmission, can be in a dilemma whose interests will defend the security services. We don't want security services in the interest of neither the United States nor the United Kingdom, France, Germany, or any other Western countries. We want security services to be in the service of Serbia, in the service of the Serbian people and in the service of Serbian citizens. That, in other words, is called the ideology of Serbian nationalism.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13615	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (No) Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragoljub Simonovic, after him, if there is any time left, MP Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13616	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates in chapter four of the supervision of the work of the Security Service, was processed at seven points in the bill's proposal. Article 16 regulates who oversees and controls the security service. So, this service is absolutely supervised and controlled by the Serbian Parliament, directly or through the competent Security Committee. It holds water as a written document in this bill. But it's practically not like that. I'll give you an example from 20 days ago, say, when we had a Security Committee meeting. The day before, we could read more data in the daily press on the work of the Security Service than on the day of the Security Committee's meeting. Especially if we look at that secret document that we've all signed, actually the MPs who wanted to read it, to get some information that's interesting to the MPs or to the information that shouldn't be hidden from the MPs. In that secret document, we couldn't find any secret information, and it's not yet said, on the very Security Committee, the representatives of the competent service almost told us nothing from what we expected them to tell us. There were empty stories, empty phrases, and I'm asking a specific question. We may not have available information from the opposition about the work of the Security Service, and we have three. Maybe you from the position have that information, because you're in position. If anyone has such information, it would be good to bring it out here and see how you control these services. I'm a member of 16 with 11 areas, and only a few of them I'm going to analyze, so I don't take valuable time away from my colleagues who are likely to report on this amendment. My colleague says I have all the time in the world, in fact 15 minutes on this amendment. It is said that the Committee monitors the constitutionality and legality of the work of the Security Service, monitors the consistency of the work of the Security Service with the national security strategy and the defence strategy and security-intelligence policy of Serbia, monitors the respect of political, ideological and interest neutrality in the work of the Security Service. I'd like to stay here for a while. Tonight, many colleagues have brought forth several of their visions regarding this neutrality, ideologicality, or, to put it simply so that the people understand us, the political inconsistency of any political party. If we analyze the services, let's say the BIA, which looks like a special organization, it's fully controlled by the DSS. Every citizen knows that. We don't need to make this special in our speeches right now. For example, VBA or VOA, which work at the Ministry of Defense, and under complete control of the DS. Because these services are practically more defined as observing each other within the coalition, a large territorial space is left for the fact and work of foreign intelligence services on our territory without being under control. Such foreign intelligence and counterintelligence services have practically entered all spheres of our lives: economic, political, financial, and even security, and this can result as a final result for our economy and for our Serbia very poor results. We practically let them do what they want on our territory, while our security services practically do what is not their role, observe, film, monitor coalition partners within them, and a little bit of the opposition, and that's a big problem for our country. I suggest that this member be deleted, and a lot of colleagues have already talked about it and that this area is already regulated by the Constitutional Law of Article 3 of Chapter 2, only if we are not informed enough, so you may think that this law should be represented by a federal state, perhaps that is the meaning of some of your further policy that we do not see now. This bill is practically regulated by members of the alliance within a federal state, and as far as we know, we do not now have a federal state, but we have one Serbia, with one of its comprehensive parts. I must also say, to look back very briefly, there is no minister, two or three of his sentences and his connotations, related to some of his brief analysis of our presentations, or our SRS parliamentary groups, regarding the work of the Security Service. He says, civilian control; I just said in the opening statement that there is civilian control, but a party, not what we stand for. You're sending clear messages to someone that all this control is in your hands, and the goal is something else. Or, says the minister, what degree of security control do we have in Serbia? I would like the minister to give me at least one degree of security control if we are to exclude that service from the absolute control of Boris Tadic, in office as president of Serbia, or Vojislav Kostunica as Prime Minister or their outstretched political unit, Ministry of Defence or someone who controls this sector of operations within his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13617	According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the best Serbian lawyers, Prof. Dr. Laza Kostic, wrote a piece called the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's Administrative Law and a third part of its textbook is called Management Oversight. I'm sorry that the proposer of this law didn't read the deed, so he'd get a sense of what surveillance is. Surveillance or control is such a relationship where one who oversees, or performs, work control can apply certain measures in case he notices that in the work of the one he oversees, there has been a violation of the Constitution and the law. However, one of your ideologically close political partners read by Lazo Kostic, that's the plagiarist Stevan Lilić, but to this extent he exaggerated in reading Laza Kostic that he simply prescribed several dozen and hundreds of pages from his capital textbook, so if you haven't read Lazo Kostic, you probably had to read Stevan Lilić, he was a correspondent of democracy and human rights in Serbia, and a political and ideological mentor of many who sit in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Here is the question: if the Committee on the Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the right to supervise the work of the Security Service, and you give it the right to Article 16, what sanctions and what measures can the Security Committee apply if it finds that there has been a breach of the Constitution, or a violation of the law in the work of the Security Service? You just say the Committee monitors the constitutionality and legality of the work of the Security Service, monitors the consistency of the work of the Security Service with the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy and the Security Intelligence Policy of the Republic of Serbia, monitors the respect of political, ideological and interest neutrality in the work of the Security Service, but does nothing say what happens if the Security Committee sees violations of both the Constitution and the law? What happens if he notices that he's not in sync with the National Security Strategy? What happens if the security services are not party neutral, as they should be? So, which acts and measures the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament can apply if it sees all these illegal phenomena. It's just that there's no such thing as action or measure, and that surveillance isn't any kind of surveillance. This is what you put in order to do in the bill. If a supervised person cannot apply any sanctions, legal or political, according to a supervised entity, there is no supervision. Let's say that the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament can apply some sanctions if it is observed that security services do not operate in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Only some acts can be applied by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. It is he who assesses whether the work of the state authorities is in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not. The Security Committee can't appreciate that. Furthermore, how can the Security Committee determine whether the work of the Security Service is in line with the National Security Strategy? Does the Republic of Serbia have a national security strategy and who determines the strategy? If there is no strategy, why has the bill not set a deadline within which this strategy is to be established? Which state body is establishing? Then, which sanctions will be applied by the National Assembly Security Committee if the security services are not political, ideological, and interestingly neutral. Every ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia knows that what you wrote will remain a dead letter in the paper. Convince any citizen of the Republic of Serbia that Rade Bulatovic has nothing to do with the DSS. Convince any citizen of the Republic of Serbia that any other director of any security service in the Republic of Serbia has nothing to do with DSS, DSS, G17 plus, NS, or all of those parties that are now the ruling coalition in the Republic of Serbia. So, in the bill of law, you set some standards that you knew in advance that they were lifeless, that they couldn't be realized, and all in order to create some legal form and to say, we passed a law on security services, we fulfilled what it says in the Constitutional Law, we passed the law, and now the President of the National Assembly can call elections for the President of the Republic. The fact that most of these provisions are going to be a dead letter in the paper, that you already know in advance that what the bill says doesn't correspond to the actual state, you don't care about that. You have left yourself space in the transitional and final provisions that the work of the Security Service will be governed by special laws, and there is no provision in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It says clearly there - the organisation and operation of all security services will be governed by the Security Services Act. Now, you're going to go to the National Assembly, and you're going to be pushing chicken eggs, like, we're not going to figure out what you want, and then you wrote a bill on the basics of the security service of the whole, imagine, 23 members. Instead of being a full law, a detailed one, where every detail in the work of the Security Service will be regulated to a minimum, where there will be no free space for will, for arbitration, for volunteering, you will go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a law governing the basics of the security system. That is how you violate Article 3(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then put in the bill only 23 members, of which the good part does not even apply to security services, but concerns some administrative bodies, the Bureau of Coordination, the National Security Council, the National Security Council, and the National Security Council Office. All of this has nothing to do with security services. There's no Mr. Minister here, he's tired, he's not in any shape. Those in the DS are used to doing as the commissioner says, there is not much debate, there is not much decision, as Boris Tadic tells us, we do. We in the SRS are trying to study in detail what the bill says, and when we see something wrong, then the minister is taking out - it's the secretaries, it's the ones who type up the bill, it's the coffee cooks, it's everyone's fault, it's just the innocent Prime Minister and his ministers. It won't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13619	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I speak of the amendment, I had the intention of asking the minister, but he, I say, escaped from this room, while the MPs sat here and worked, primarily the MPs of the SRS. When it comes to these huge printing mistakes that come from the Serbian government, they even came to cross me into Dragisa Ilic, which shows how negligent the government in the government of the Republic of Serbia is. As far as this question is concerned, I wanted to ask the minister next, but let his Democrats answer. We are here discussing our security services, how to monitor them, in order to protect the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I wish the minister was here to answer me, and I'd like someone from the DS to answer me, who oversees foreign security services, your friends that you let walk in Serbia and do whatever they want? In the middle of Serbia, they harass, arrest, ice, threaten, blackmail our citizens. Who cares about the endangered rights of our citizens, does the state of Serbia worry? No way. We have seen exactly what these foreign security services have done, what pressure have they put on the citizens of Serbia to make them falsely testify against Dr Vojislav Seselj, and has any of the authorities of the Serbian state taken to protect the citizens? It's nobody. As for the amendment to Article 16, he deals with the issue of surveillance of the work of the Security Service. This amendment, which I have submitted, in the first part, requires a supplement in Article 2(4) where it is said to "supervise the application of special means and the method of secret collection of data which are temporarily restricted by the Constitution and the Law established human rights and freedoms". What is the difference between the proposed amendment and what is offered in the Government proposal, in Article 16? The government's proposal states that only the legality of the application of specific measures and procedures for secret data collection can be monitored. What does that mean? This means that the Assembly, or committee, will deal with the question of whether there is, for example, an official court order, or approval of whether someone will be secretly monitored or listened to, and that is likely that security services will always provide. What about monitoring the very use of special means and the method of secret data collection? It is currently in the SRS amendment, but the promoter felt that this should not be in the fourth Article 16 indent. The question now is why aren't measures, procedures and methods that security services carry out over some citizens? For certain cases, the measures and procedures taken may be discriminatory. For example, is there an adequate number of involved operatives working on a case? Furthermore, is a particular case worth spending huge money on the use of tracking means, as well as possible damages that operatives themselves can do during this job? Those controls are just out of control by the National Assembly. That's why this amendment was supposed to be accepted by the government. Like this, practically, the National Assembly controls nothing. This indent also states that the control measures relate to the application of specific means and methods temporarily restricting the Constitution and the law established human rights and freedoms. The mention of the Constitution and the law in the government's proposal simply doesn't exist. What's all this supposed to represent? Only to satisfy the form, and the human rights and freedom procedures themselves are put aside. Imagine now the situation when a person, i.e. a secret collection of information about it, is officially authorised for the safety of the state and the institutions, but through this person can be monitored, due to the need for complete supervision, accompanying persons, connected persons, relatives, neighbors, etc. Such individuals may be deliberately chosen whose proximity is to those who are an interesting security service and because of other interests of the government, such as leaders of political parties, prominent members of individual parties, including MPs. Let's say, while they're tracking a guy named Mike or Zika for some small, cheap goods smuggling, they'll be watching his neighbor, the leader of a party, or even the president of a municipality, if he's from some party that doesn't belong to the ruling coalition. No one will ever be able to carry out any kind of surveillance. Would the minister, if he were present, answer, advocate modern totalitarianism, bandaged, masked, that no dangerous way of misusing the service for political and party interests of the party in power is seen at first sight? The second part of the amendment refers to indent 10. The amendment of the SRS to this position of Article 10 is proposed to take a statement from security officers who directly and indirectly participated in such actions when determining the facts of the illegalities or irregularities in the work of the SRS and their members. By accepting this amendment, surveillance of security services would have had some purpose. This is how these indentations are written just blank phrases, with a broad interpretation of obligations, or the rights of the National Assembly. What is simply amazing and amazing is in the reasoning given by the Serbian government, which is precisely on the part of the amendment relating to indent 10. It says in the explanation: "determining facts" means, for example. taking statements from members of the Security Service. This is simply amazing that the government uses the word that something is meant, as if someone should be a prophet or a psychic, so as to assume what is meant by this concept. It's a very broad term for a serious area, such as the work of the security service. Turns out we have visible and invisible parts of the law. Which is why it's even written, if someone in their head already has everything that's meant to be "understanded"? We want a law in which to know exactly what to laugh about and what not to laugh about. As it is written in the explanation, it can be known to those who wrote this law, but cannot be known to the MPs and cannot be known to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is necessary for this member is the necessity to specify exactly when statements can be taken from members of the Security Service. I'd ask a government official again, and tonight there are none of them here, which means a written word in the same explanation, for example, how do we know that, for example, statements can be taken from members of the security service when it's not written in the law? No one will be able to commit this law tomorrow to do so in order to determine some facts where human rights violations and the laws of this country occurred. This reminds me of what MP Zoran Krasic was saying today, about the unfortunate Gashi Knezevic, now a very democratic one, who referred to a simple bill. So the government doesn't write it, it's meant to be, and it's still supposed to be an example. Let's say there's more ways of questioning. For example, one of the security officers can only check on a polygraph, they can only torture someone, and someone can make a statement on their own in circles. Now, to establish a parallel with a single foreign service accused of torturing and harassing detainees, it is thought of Guantanamo and some prisons across Europe, in those countries where NATO was bewitched. They have long resisted media attacks, human rights organisations, witness statements, and what their main weapon was. Their main weapon was to claim that it was not in the law that regulated the work of the security service, and in reality it was a completely different situation. That is why the Government, in order to cloud these provisions in Article 16 and not to adopt the proposed amendment, which unequivocally cites actions, is precisely using unimaginable terms such as 'understanding' and 'for example'. What would it look like to use these words when adopting a law in the field of economy, agriculture, etc. I hope that in the day of voting, MPs of the National Assembly will adopt this proposed amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13621	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. In total, the SRS remained for four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13622	National MPs, in Article 16, the legislator of the law norms: ''The National Assembly shall supervise the work of the Security Service directly and through the competent committee of the National Assembly (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). The Committee in particular: oversees the constitutionality and legality of the work of the Security Service, oversees the consistency of the work of the Security Service with the national security strategy, the defence strategy and security-intelligence policy of the Republic of Serbia, oversees the respect of political, ideological and interest neutrality in the work of the Security Service... '"In order not to take away your time preciously, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, this is a political phraseology that essentially means nothing, and it cloudes the essence. When you compare, ladies and gentlemen, Article 16, with Article 19, which we will come to later, you will see that what is prescribed here and suggests that it is just one general phraseology, something that cannot be applied, because it is derrogated by a member of the 19th proposed law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that MP Ilic Radisa explained in detail, explained and provided valid evidence and an explanation that this amendment is legally possible, that it is acceptable and that it should be absolutely accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13623	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Stupar. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Stupar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, on behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to delete article 17. The MPs of the SRS discussed this law in principle and the amendments that we have submitted explain what we think about this law that we are discussing today. The only reason you had to propose and pass this law is to call an election. In my explanation, I have suggested that this article be deleted, because it is Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States that would pass their laws in accordance with the federal government, which regulate the basic arrangement of a particular area. Perhaps something is going on, because it is you who are negotiating on behalf of the Assembly and on behalf of the state of Serbia on the status of Kosovo and what will happen in the next period concerning Kosovo and Metohija that you may have knowledge that we do not have and are already planning that in the coming period something will be called again, as was the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and you are already proposing such a law. What's the point? Dear citizens, dear friends, here's how the government has and how they behave in relation to the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Of the 35 amendments, as submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister and his expert team who handled this, in the 22 amendments most likely the same secretary wrote an explanation, in 22 amendments the same text is written. Look at it first, and it says this - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the amendment of MP Suleiman Spah to Article 1. It's a bill of law. I guess, gentlemen, it's been hard for you to explain every amendment we've submitted. If we filed a request to delete it, I guess you could have given a more meaningful explanation. What that means is 22 times, and that's your relationship, 22 times you take a copy-pass, a copy-pass, so you could have given it to some high school kid. Here's Srdjan Milivojevic, he would have written this well. Maybe better than this and maybe you'd even come out as a representative of the government to defend this and say, yes, we made a mistake here, we didn't copy it well, it was an old system. And you who are DOS, so ask these kids if anyone else is using DOS, they've all moved on to a new operating system, Windows is being used, DOS is long gone and it's gone on the computer, gentlemen. What I am interested in as a member of the People's Parliament, since the Security Service determines whether this security service, Mr. Albianic, is not in this story so that you don't worry you won't be arrested safely, but I am interested in being a MP and Serbian citizens, and these associations that sent a memo, whether the Security Service will deal with you, the ministers of 2000, who have embezzled the state budget, you've taken over 14 billion dinars from the military budget. I need to explain for you and for the citizens, to see what's going on. The Association of Harmful Military and Civilian Persons of Serbia called Defence, the Association of Citizens, the Association of Retired Sub-officers of Serbia, the Association of Retired Members of the Army, the Association of Refugees, Persecuted and Temporaryly Displaced Persons of the 'Home, Sweet Home'. See how your ministers, even Boris Tadic wrote that, in 2000, 2.7 billion disappeared from the military budget. It was projected as funds for military employees' salaries of 5.542.537,857 dinars, enough 50% of the funds to pay all military employees' salaries. That year 2.7 billion disappeared from the budget. The next year of 10 billion 4 billion are gone. The next year, 2002, 2 billion disappeared from that budget. Next in 2003, four billion. When you saw it was too much, then in 2005, you didn't take that much, just 1.4 billion. What does your former secretary of defense say? One of the defence ministers, however, does not say which -- however, the money set by the Assembly's Budget Law, according to the defendant's recognition, was paid to a special salary appraisal. Someone spent, according to one of the defence ministers, unintendedly. What does Mr. Tadic, who used to be a minister, say? Salaries in the economy have increased 56.91%, measured according to the cost of living, while the salaries of officers and civilians in the Yugoslav Army in that period are relatively lower than the pay for December 2000 by around 17%. It was written by Defence Minister Boris Tadic at the time. Afterwards, you had a minister out of your options, then a second, then a third, then a fourth, and all the affairs, and these people who sued, got litigation, don't you realize that you're going to have to pay for all of this? We, citizens of Serbia, taxpayers, will have to pay off unintended spending of money, because these gentlemen who have signed this say - to the International Court in Strasbourg. They don't stay here, they've seen, there's a verdict, it's been found, it says like this -- over 1,000 skills have been done in court proceedings. Here is what has been determined by the judgments of the municipal courts. Not to mention, there are 50 cities where courts have tried, judged and ruled that it must be worth it. One serious state can't treat its citizens like this. These citizens were on the front line, protecting us, defending our children, and what did they finally get from this country? You signed the famous CEFTA agreement. As a serious and responsible state, you had to sit down first and say - the property of citizens who came from Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo and Metohija remained there. The property of the Serbian state remained in Croatia. The state of Croatia has property in the state of Serbia. Let's find out who owes what to whom, and then we'll just make trade agreements. It didn't matter to you at all. Your laws are not in the interest of citizens. Dear citizens, all the laws this Assembly has passed since 2000, which has been propagating here that they are reformable, that they are in the interest of citizens, after a year or two have been changed again. A serious state has passed laws that won't change for 20 years. The latest example, your laws on the election of presidents and the organisation of presidential elections, those MPs who had had an opportunity since the 1990s in a multi-party system to deal with elections, realised that these laws were returning us to the 1990s. The state of Serbia should pass laws for future generations. You can't pass laws that only apply while you're in power, and when the other government comes, the coalition changes, the laws change immediately. The election for the president of the state, for the President of the Republic, brought us back in 1997 when members of the election committees fought in the elections. You who didn't get a chance to see it, didn't participate, asked around on your community boards. Therefore, you must make sure that these laws you propose are applicable, that their essence and purpose are in the interest of citizens. I am sorry that the minister is not here to explain to lawmakers who are the reform laws in the state of Serbia in the interests of citizens, whether it is educational workers, whether it is health care, whether it is scientific workers, whether it is a peasant, whether it is justice. What is this set of system laws, where you let us have a better, better quality life, have security? What is the law that you've brought to our children now that they're supposed to be studying, they need to master, they need to defend doctoral dissertation, so they can school at the expense of the state? Gentlemen, whether we are from the opposition or you from the position, is it the interest of the Serbian state to have educated people? Everyone in the previous government, from any regime, is free of charge, free of charge. Now that you need a doctoral dissertation, ask your colleagues who can pay for it today. Gentlemen, these are not reform laws. These are laws against the people. You force a certain layer of people. Today, who has the money can go to college, and what about the children of the peasants who feed this country, where's their chance to school, where's their future? When you pass such laws that you can come out and say, next... Excuse me, have you had any objections? (President: Be my guest, no one has objected. I'm just asking professional services to check if there's any direct TV transmissions. () What is the essence of these laws that we are making today and the law that should be passed in the coming period? A serious, responsible state must pass laws that will be systemically, reformically, those that will not change in the next period, which will last. Look at the parliamentary democracies you call upon, how old they are that they haven't changed any laws. Look at these parliamentary countries, what does it mean when the opposition submits 30, 50, 100 amendments, how many times has the minister passed the law? As soon as the opposition tolerates something, something's wrong. The law is retreating. You have no criteria. The opposition can handle 100 amendments, it doesn't matter to you. You have your goal. Your goal is to get the laws passed, to do a certain job, to prepare for the election, and to think that you will then solve everything. You won't. I have two minutes left to take advantage of the opportunity, Serbia's largest robbery is preparing Mladjan Dinkic in the coming period. I'll use a minute and a half to explain to the citizens the latest scam coming up. Under the new law, my children, who do not have working days, are scheduled to receive 1,000 euros. My wife and I, at the age of 60, should receive 1,000 euros on the same principle. So, one four-member family anywhere in Serbia should get 4,000 euros. According to a proposal to be adopted, 200 euros is paid per year of internship, with 60 years of internships that is 12,000 euros, and for two children who are of age, as citizens of Serbia, that is 14,000 euros. We'll only get 4,000 euros instead of 14,000 euros. Where's that 10,000 euros? If you think you're going to buy someone for the next election, explain it to the citizens, what the value of those 1,000 euros will be in the next seven years when the bill comes. That won't be worth 50 euros. This is important for both the government and the opposition, for those of you who are parents. Someone puts their hand in your pocket and takes 10,000 euros from the four-member family. Think carefully about the suggestions you're making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13625	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (No) To Article 17. The amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee suggest that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the word. I think there are some cards in the units, please just establish the quorum again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13626	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while MPs of the ruling coalition count and catch themselves in the halls and MPs' clubs where which, let me say a few words about the amendment submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. In a desire for this bill to be longer and to write in it something related to the Constitution and the laws, the Serbian Government, in its first position, wrote this sentence - if the Director of the Security Service is prevented from attending the Committee's session, is obliged to refer to the session of its deputy, or authorised representative. In Article 4. The bill states that the security-intelligence agency, the Military Security and Military Intelligence Agency, or the authorities of the administration as part of the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, the systemic, or parent law for these institutions is the State Administration Act. The Law on State Administration, the Law on State Officials and the Serbian Government Regulation (President: Bell)... You don't have to, Mr. Beard, use that bell. I'm focused enough without your help.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13627	Engineer Mrkonjic is in order, not Obradović, please. I'm sorry, we'll get the time back, I'm asking the MPs for a little quiet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13628	I thank Mr. Mrkonjic. People who sit in that chair often change. Sometimes the president of the National Assembly sits very briefly, sometimes Mr. Albianic, here he comes out of the hall now, sometimes you sit. (President: These are flight changes, Mr. Martinovic. ) That's right, flying shifts, sometimes Mr. Rade Obradović sits, and since I don't have eyes on my back, I don't know when the change comes. In any case, the home law for all of these bodies, i.e. the institution, is the Law on State Administration, the Law on State Servants, the Serbian Government Regulation on Internal Regulation in ministries and rules on the systematization of jobs and internal arrangements in the bodies of the administration. There is no reason to say in Article 17 - that if the Director of the Security Service is unable to attend the session, he is obliged to refer his deputy, or authorised representative to the session, because there is already an appropriate formulation in these other laws, i.e. sublegal acts. We in the SRS feel that there is no need to burden the text of the bill with the norms that are the matter of other legal or sublegal regulations. In fact, it is the meaning of the amendment submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13629	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. Does anyone want a word after the amendment? He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic, then the magistrate of Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13630	Article 16 and Article 17. The bill makes up one continent, as it refers to oversight of the work of the security service defined as congregation oversight. However, there is one problem that has failed to solve dactylographers and coffee cooks, which is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes a way of working and deciding in the National Assembly of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The organization of the National Assembly should also be regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so by that logic things, all committees in the National Assembly are the working bodies of the National Assembly and as such do not have some special original jurisdiction, but are primarily working bodies that give passable power to certain acts directed to the National Assembly. It's one factor these two ladies forgot when they wrote this bill. Another very important factor is self-monitoring. The National Assembly under the Constitution is overseeing the work of the executive government, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the question is whether the National Assembly can do as it is written in the bill - that it directly controls the work of the Security Service. It is written here that the National Assembly can directly and indirectly through its working bodies, and the working bodies are some competent committees. Given the organisation of the security service, which you did not want to regulate by this law, you have already adopted existing laws that regulate that area, then I must draw your attention that there is a BIA, as a special body, and there are these two military units, which are the organisational units within the Ministry of Defence as the authorities. Due to an unequal position in the hierarchy of state authorities, the question arises whether direct supervision by the National Assembly can be carried out by these military services because they are part of the executive authority, part of the Ministry of Defence. Likely, if the National Assembly exercises direct supervision, it can supervise the Ministry of Defense, including these services. The BIA situation is different. This problem has existed before. How was that solved in the former SFRY? It wasn't called this at the time, it was the social control of the work of these services, and they're usually in our so-called so-called service. Some committees existed in the congregation system. Of course, in the one-party system it was not so significant, but it was taken care of who could control the protection of that data, the secrecy of the data. As it is given, it overcomes what the Constitution allows, meaning, the internal structure of the National Assembly, the internal organisation, the working bodies, committees, commissions, mode of work, the way of decision, is all matter that needs to be resolved by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When you move that matter from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to this part of the law, it seems a big mistake. Why does this mistake seem to be - because in one specific way in the Federal Assembly there is a regulation on the control of military security authorities. Then it came from the logic that there should be democratic and civilian control, so the reflection of democratic and civilian control was expensive among several MPs of the Federal Assembly. Of course, when a committee is formed, when a working body is formed, party representation in the National Assembly is mirrored and it is a reflection of democratic and civilian control. Why? Because MPs aren't uniform faces. Why is it democratic - because it paints the electoral will of citizens in the elections that has been manifested in the National Assembly. I think that both amendments, you have seen that almost every member has been subjected to two amendments -- one that requires erasure, and the other that changes something in the existing proposal, and that illustrates the concept that this law should regulate security services in a general way. But you can see for yourself that this debate is moving away, and it grows more and more to believe that this should have been regulated by one special law, I would not now bid how many members should be, whether 100, whether 150, that all the services in this field of security should be governed in a unique manner with the same principles, with respect to the proper specificity of organisation, staff, jurisdiction, etc., but one regulation. I think that what stands as written, as the obligation of the National Assembly, in Article 3. The constitutional law is that we need a brand-new regulation on security services, and the adoption of that regulation would put these two existing laws out of force. However, you can see for yourself how constitutionality and legality are subordinated to the current composition of those who exercise power. This is really a one-time law. His function is that we have something on paper to call the election. The constitutional law says that law-making does not talk about the entry into force of this law. Just to remind you, this law would be effective under this last provision on the eighth day of the day of publication. If we go by some logic, then law-making is one process that not only ends with a vote here, but ends with an apparition and publication of the regulation in "The Official Messenger". The fact that someone cheated on Dulic and told him that today must urgently pass this law is not fulfilling the obligation set out in Article 3. Constitutional law. The passing of the law means that the law has entered into force. If that didn't mean so, then the situation could theoretically happen if the law was passed and he never came into force. Why? It will not sign an order of declaration or delay, or we will go to some other procedures that are also foreseen by our Constitution. I draw attention to Mr. Dulic that what he's supposed to be in a hurry to have him sign something, to sign something, to sign it, etc., and if he counts that what you were planning to bring into the course of one morning's vote, they call this law, you haven't finished your work under the Constitution. Someone cheated on you. As the MPs from the end of there cheated a few months ago, one wanted to faint why no law was passed before November 1st, children to travel abroad, so November 1st came November 15th. I ask him, well, as you've survived, children don't travel abroad, and he says, "Oh, you cheated on me, it doesn't matter," he says, passing laws by fulfilling those obligations we have towards the EU. So I'm distracting you, don't get too hot and worried, passing the law means getting him into effect. There's been a big mistake here. Even though the National Assembly is authorized to pass laws, it does not mean that anything called the Law can be brought to nothing. There's some matter that needs to be in the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly. The organisation of committees, the working bodies of the National Assembly, the way decisions are made in these committees, the way the National Assembly works is a matter that must be resolved by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Someone will say, we have cases that the special laws regulate the specific jurisdiction of certain assembly committees and, for example, to state the Law on the National Bank of Serbia as an example. The function of the promoter under this law shall be carried out by the Assembly Committee on Finance. It was illegal at the time, and today it's unconstitutional. If you continue to build such solutions into our regulations, where you will give jurisdiction to congregation committees outside the Constitution, then you are making an even greater dissuasion than the one made by the dactylographer and coffee cooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13631	I thank Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 19, which I propose to delete this member, because it is Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the adoption of a law on security services, not a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area. It is not disputed that the main motive for the adoption of this law is the upcoming presidential elections. Mr. Markovic burns in defense of this law. Gašo Knezevic reminds me so little of Agent 006, and Mr. Markovic reminds me of 007, like Sean Connery, a bit as bald as he is, for a haircut more and less, and for a polishing being. Is it disputed that spying is present? Yes, it is. Is it legal? It's not. Except in cases where embassies, who are in charge of it, are one of the jobs. As far as public control is concerned, I have no illusion that we can control it as MPs of the National Assembly, and it will be nothing. It's just an illusion like this. It's already been talked about. The Security Council will work in accordance with the strategy. What's the strategy, whose strategy it is, is quite said about it. About as if the national strategy were a DS strategy, so it reminds me if they set up teams of Partizans and the Red Star to represent Serbia's team. It's not a Serbian team. They are teams, but can't be a single party's strategy, one party's policy to be a national or national strategy. Now, what's transparent about it? It's transparent to know exactly who the intelligence service is working for. We had the case of Perisic and John Nabor, so the head almost lost the one who was following, discovered that spying. Those who did this, they did not come under sanctions, laws, etc. He got hurt later, but it's already in some other laws, for God's sake, maybe, I don't know. The bill is bad, but in this sphere, it's not just a law issue, it's a law issue. Most of the laws you've passed have just been a problem in application. In theory, any law can be written, but when it has to be applied practically, there's a problem. What matters to me, for us from the SRS parliamentary group, is actually the application of the law. What I would like to point out, what made a special impression on me, is a discussion of Mr. General Delic. If it had any effect, we from the SRS know it, we thought the same thing, that's our ideology. The man spoke best of what our state is and is a shameful role of the current government in protecting its citizens in front of The Hague tribunal. General Delic went there to defend both his comrades, and Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia and everything that has happened in recent years. What kind of government is it, unserious, unsuspecting, I'd say you were designed, typed about, like America when it went to Iraq. They had to invent some weaponry chemically, one way or another, and there was nothing of it. Destroyed that land, destroyed culture, architecture, killed the people, led to a desolation there, and then they needed some power. What kind of power? They need an Iraqi DOS, which will serve not the interests of the people of Iraq, but the interests of pro-Western countries, or pro-Americans. That's right here in Serbia, you're described as implementing America's or the EU's policy, and it doesn't matter. It's possible it's the same. We're still dealing with trivial things, and there's more important and fateful things going on in that time. Let's just say, when we talk about the security sphere, the security services, did any of us ever wonder what actions are going on tonight? Someone's being ambushed, someone's following, someone's listening, someone's doing the liquidation, and we're dealing with the theory here, we've arranged that area, and just to finish this debate, it's about the end of the vote, and then there won't be any problem in that sphere. The government's opinion of this amendment, he says, is the same as that of Ambassador Suleiman Spah. We, Mr Spah, greatly appreciate it, is an extremely capable MP, one of the best in the SRS parliamentary group, but his motives around this amendment may be different. I would not now like to see how he is responsible, but as an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I want the government to say, e, a response to the amendment, the opinion on the amendment of MP Dragan Colic is that way. Since the government is so, it reminds me of a wormy apple, the wormy apple is not waiting for a storm, it is the first breeze, and after the presidential elections, Boris Tadic will be on the model runway, doing the best he can, and Tomislav Nikolic will lead Serbia and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13633	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13634	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in some desire to create some false illusion of democracy and civil control of intelligence services, were made this Article 19 concerning the competent assembly committee and the obligations of the directors of the service to that committee. They say what their rights are, but they say what the board members can't ask for from the director of some security service. He says he can't ask for the identity of current and former service associates; completely understandable, only if some of you were 15 years ago and perhaps a little overworked for you by the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, so that's one of the reasons why identity cannot be revealed, and otherwise the names and Socrates are known, and Gires and it is known who worked for the service. Some were even government presidents, some were in some cabinets now, they were ministers, so you're trying to hide it for free. Furthermore, members of the undercover service were probably also 15 years ago who are now in these new democratic governments, third parties who could be harmed by the disclosure of these data, further methods of obtaining intelligence and security data, actions that are under way, the way in which special procedures and measures are applied, the data and information provided in exchange with foreign services and international organisations. Now I can tell you that you couldn't write something any funnier. Let's have someone tell me from you what information you can get from some side of the service, but they're making data that can be used by the country, for its safety. You can get information from the British Security Service where Radovan Karadzic is hiding. You can get information from the U.S. Security Service where Ratko Mladic is hiding. Look out, both of them have some kind of interest, so they're working against each other a little bit. They inform everyone about it and Carla del Ponte, so she comes to you here and bangs your pucks, though, we hear she's going, lucky, away from her, but the fact is, that's all you can get. Can you get any information regarding the country's security? You can't have that. You don't have anyone else to get from. All those intelligence services that encouraged you from the countries that are friendly to us. You broke all your contacts, and the reason was because the British intelligence service and the U.S. intelligence ordered you to do it. You don't get any more information from any intelligence service except these two. I think that data exchange is mostly one-way. I already said, they don't have any real intelligence here anymore, no need. When that diplomat of theirs was arrested, along with that traitor Perisic, who you voted for to be vice president of the Republic of Serbia, then the Americans threatened to no longer arrest their spies and punish you for no more spies to spy on you, but you'll have to make a phone call to report for everything they care about, and that's a fact, that's how it is. So when the great George comes to you, both Tadic and Kostunica stand still and refer. Ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, there's something else I need to ask you, do you know that both the US and British intelligence have been doing a public opinion and a poll on who will be president of the Republic of Serbia after the election? You should have been told that the future president of the Republic of Serbia is Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13635	The amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic to article 19. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article of 19 is very important and I would just like to make a few notes about it. What does that mean, a member of security with a covert identity? I know what an associate is, I know what a member of the Security Service is, but a member with a secret identity wasn't familiar with our service. It is not excluded, as it is riverlike, that there are none among us who have a covert covert identity. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards Article 19, indent 7, it is very important, because according to this member, the Director of the Security Service is required at the request of the Security Committee to allow members of the Committee to access the Service's premises, allow them to see the documentation, pay attention, allow insight, but which, provides information and information on the work of the Service and answers their questions regarding the work of the Service. What's the problem here, what's the issue, what's denied the board? The members of the board cannot ask for information from the security services, which Mr. Arsic mentioned, about the identity of current and future associates. I agree that everything can't be public and that, in any case, not all associates can be made public. I can't give information about members with a covert identity, to third parties who might be harmed by the disclosure of that data. But when it comes to the next thing, why, this is very important for the MPs. On the actions under way, I draw attention again, why can the Committee on Security and the National Assembly not know what action is under way, as regards the state, prime minister or president of the Republic? Please, if there was an action in progress, for the first and second time, at the end and for the third time, that action was prepared for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, why didn't you inform the Security Committee, why wasn't the National Assembly informed? Is it true the service knew she was preparing? Why it didn't stop and why the Home Office, i.e. The Defence and Security Committee would have no knowledge of what actions are under way, especially in the case of actions in preparation or of an assassination, kidnapping or attack on constitutional and state planning. In those cases, the Committee must be informed. What if an individual misses, misses him, doesn't inform the authorities that it's possible to have catastrophic consequences? That is why we believe that the Defence and Security Committee has been denied this law to control the work of the Security Service. Article 19 states - the Director of the Service is required, at the request of the Committee, to provide certain information. Will he, however, provide information on covert surveillance? No, don't get your hopes up. Is he going to provide information on secret facial and object recording? He won't. Is he going to provide information on the covert surveillance of phones, rooms and cars? He won't. Will it provide information that compromises certain faces? Is he going to provide information on the blackmail of a particular person? Will he provide information on who interfered with family relations? Whether to provide information on the covert search of apartments, without the permission of the competent national authority, i.e. Without a court of law? Will he provide information on the covert examination of letters and other shipments? It won't do. This is where the SRS finds it necessary to establish direct but strong control. When it comes to co-operation with international security services and organisations, it is a very important issue. However, details do not need to be known, but the principles of co-operation, the methods of co-operation and the principles on which the co-operation is based must be known. You can't say – we'll work with foreign intelligence services or foreign organizations. That's not enough. It must be known that Parliament and the Defence and Security Committee know what secret organizations they are. There can't be any secrets here. They can act, but only within their mandate. We don't know until now that there's been this cooperation, but if it is, it should be said. The SRS only knows that it was only openly co-operated with a criminal Hague organization, i.e. The criminal court of The Hague. Soroš is a foreign organization, but profitable. With such organizations, the service cannot cooperate. Therefore, the SRS is for full and complete control, and we do not have in this law a foothold to control the committee in charge. Certainly now, Mr. Minister will tell us that this is a good law of 19-20 members, regulating the provisions, as we have said, of three important services that had to be standardized far more precisely, more extensively, and in more detail. This is one law. All I know is that this law will be required by the members of the Security Service to change urgently. This or the application will not be welcomed, because here the members of the service, both military and civilian, cannot manage and cannot carry out their duties and tasks under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13637	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milenko Zivkovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13638	Dear fellow Members, on the basis of article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment proposes erasing Article 21 as the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a law on security services, rather than a law on the basis of the regulation of the security services of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States which would pass their laws, in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13639	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13640	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a law on the foundations of the security office of the Republic of Serbia. It is proposed to delete this article because it is Article 3. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a law on security services, not a law on the basis of the organisation of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal state to pass a law on the foundations of the security service. The adoption of such a law implies the existence of a federal state and Member States which would pass their laws in accordance with a federal law which regulates the basics of the regulation of a particular area. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this member be deleted in full, for the reason that this member is completely unnecessary and pointless, because the content of this article shows that this law does not regulate the work of the Security Service, as provided for in Article 3(2). Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, rather than calling elections for Serbia's president. Article 1 of this Article provides that the work of the Security Service will be governed by special laws and Article 2 in accordance with this law. Also, I want to say on behalf of the SRS that security services must not be politicised, but must be a service of citizens with strong civilian control. In order to have a quality service for the security and security of citizens and their property, the service must be adequately motivated and paid much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13641	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, all the reasons of the SRS MPs tied up...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13643	Please, ladies and gentlemen, we just need a little more patience and there's only one amendment left. Here's your new time, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the arguments tabled by the MPs of the SRS in addition to amendments to this law could not in a better way point to the futility of this law than you have governed by Article 22. This law may be appropriate if you remember a colleague when the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, suggested that an underground passage be made to the former Federal Assembly. If we can regulate that problem, maybe one of these laws could be acceptable. However, if we consider that this law regulates one very serious substance and that it is Article 3. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was voted by the majority of Serbian citizens, and we gave confidence in the constitution on 30 September 2006, you stepped on it. You said in article 22 of the first sentence: The work of the Security Service will be governed by a special law, in accordance with this law. You yourself say that this law has not solved the problems of calling elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. In the position of the third member, you said that the competent authorities are obliged to adopt the necessary sublegal acts to implement this law. Also, no deadlines, no purpose, no idea. We know that, since 2000, DOS has in various forms passed several unacceptable and naharadic laws, but none of them have been like this. Indeed, this law will end up bringing Serbia's legal system into one non-applicable position where people, who are seriously dealing with this problem, will laugh at us. I think this is inadmissible and it's unserious. Finally, to say that the government did not accept amendments to the SRS, as Colic said, 22 times called for an explanation concerning the amendment submitted by Mr Sulejman Spaho to the first member. We have a total of 23 members, and 22 times the government has called for an explanation, as it has given MP Suleiman Spah.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13645	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23. Proposal for a law on the foundations of the security office of the Republic of Serbia. I have made an amendment because the name of the law does not comply with Article 3. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is not a federal arrangement of states, so there is no basis for this law to regulate the basics, and the law of a federal unit closer to the office of this matter. Behind the law's name, the government insists that its sublaws will be closer to regulating the matter of the security service. Practice has shown that when it comes to such imprecise legal solutions, we often have political will and volunteerism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13647	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the promoter Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13648	Mr. President, I understand both your and your shared need for this long session to end, but I simply feel the need at the end of the work to report for the word, to thank everyone who participated in the discussions, to say that I am sorry that such a great degree of lack of understanding is so great for some of the ideas contained in this bill, that I think it's the bill, and I'm going to do it again, and so much so that it introduces a new dimension into our intelligence system. Also, let me also agree that we lack a number of other laws and strategic-doctrinal documents, but simple time is ahead of us, and this is, let's say, some initial step towards establishing this continent that should have its own programming base and that kind of document, as well as its normative basis through the adoption of other laws of which is necessary and upon whose adoption the MPs rightly indicated here. Anyway, no matter how long this day is, it's been a pleasure to participate in the work, to listen to the discussions, maybe to share some controversy with you. I think it's all for the benefit of the state and the citizens and all of us together, and that's why I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-10-0.u13649	I thank you too, Mr. Minister. It's been a long day. You've been with us here since 10:00. Thank you so much for that. I am concluding a review of the proposal for a law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine 10.12.2007, so today, at 23.55 p.m. as voting day. [[After break – 23.55]] In accordance with Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – A PROPOSAL OF DEFENCE After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the defense bill, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. For 130, it did not vote five out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, in accordance with Articles 146 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as the untimely amendments of the National MPs Radovan Radovanovic to the article. 2, 10 and 29, and Prof. Dr. Nebojja Rangelović on Article 4. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 129, one of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 128, two of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, they did not vote four out of 169 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Perjanic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 112, five out of 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic suggested adding a new member of 37a after article 37a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 126, four of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 127, a abstentioned one, two of the 169 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Canak suggested adding a new member of 66 after article 66. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 137, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, two of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, they did not vote three out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 105th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, they did not vote four out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, they did not vote four out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Defence and Security have submitted an amendment to Article 124. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 140, a abstentioned one, 27 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the defense bill, in general. For 134, against one, it did not vote 18 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of defense. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SERBIA SERBIA LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the Serbian Army to vote, in principle. For 130, it did not vote 16 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. Before deciding on the amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure, dismissed as untimely amendments of the People's MPs: Nebojsa Rangelović to Articles 2, 3, 4, 77 and 148, Slobodan Maras to Articles 4, 9, 17, 61 and 92 and Milena Stankovic to Articles 13, 18. 73th and 144th. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Rajko Baralic and Dusan Bajatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Dusan Bajatovic and Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, four out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Article 14 of the amendment is based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 139, a abstentioned one, not voting 26, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 129, 27 of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 127, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 129, one of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 129, one of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, three of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Tatomir Bakovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, three of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Bajatovic, Zeljko Vasiljevic and Milisav Petronijevic and MP Milosav Milickovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with correction, was filed by Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nenad Canak. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 138, 29 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Bojan Milovanovic and Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Bojan Milovanovic and Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Bojan Milovanovic and Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, three of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Avramovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 129, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 167, one of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 167, one of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. The 61st Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bojan Milovanovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 128, two out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 39, against 127, two of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zoran Despotovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 69a be added after article 69a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. For 38, against 127, there were three votes, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 126, four out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 151, 17 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. The People’s MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton submitted to the 91st Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 9, against 126, 33 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 125th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 37, against 127, four out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 154th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For one against 125, he did not vote 41, out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 189th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 37, against 125, five out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 189th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 125, four out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 190th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 38, against 125, four out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to article 190. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 126, five out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 191st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Vasiljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, five out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 125, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Miljanic to article 193. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, 33 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 193rd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, they did not vote four out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 193. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 125, there was no vote of 42, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 193 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, the Proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 140, it did not vote 28 out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on Serbia's army, in general. For 130, 17 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill on Serbia's Army. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLICE LAW After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on foreign affairs to the vote, in principle. For 130, 17 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 126, seven out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, they did not vote three out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 164, against one, they did not vote two out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 165, they did not vote two out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. On amendment 5, MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not discussed the amendment submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic on 5 December 2007. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 128, they did not vote three out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment with a correction. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 125, there were no abstentions, there were no five votes, out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bojan Milovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 124, six out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 125, five out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 123, six of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 124, five out of 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 128, three of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, a abstentioned one, three voted, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, he did not vote one out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Foreign Affairs Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Chapter Five be added after Chapter Four. The proposing representative, during a review of the draft law in particular, on behalf of the Government, accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 138, 29 of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 140, it did not vote 27 out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Esad Djudževic, Bajram Omeragic, Srdjan Sajn and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The subtitle above the 61st and the 61st amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 127, three of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on foreign affairs in general. For 130, 17 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on foreign affairs. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE BASE OF THE FUNDS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. For 140, it did not vote 7, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of the law, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleyman Spaho. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, four out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, three of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, three of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 128, they did not vote two out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, they did not vote four out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 128, they did not vote two out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 142, against one, they did not vote 23, out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sasa Valjarevic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, they did not vote four out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 128, they did not vote two out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 128, they did not vote two out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, John Day. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 126, seven of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 127, they did not vote four out of 166 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 126, there was no vote of 8 out of 165 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 127, five out of 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the Defence and Security Committee. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be adopted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 139, 27 of the 166 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 129, one of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, two of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radoslav Jevremovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, they did not vote four out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment, which adds a new member of 10a after article 10a, was submitted by MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 126, four of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Veljko Kovacevic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, they did not vote four out of 167 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mikic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 126, four of the 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, five out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Milovankic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 127, they did not vote three out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government, the Committee on Defence and Security and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 167, one of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Dragoljub Simonovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 127, five out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dusan Stupar. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 125, five out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, six out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 126, four of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 123, 7 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 126, six out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milenko Zivkovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 124, five out of 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, they did not vote three out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zvonko Mihajlovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 128, two out of 167 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the foundations of the security service of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 139, five of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the bill on the basis of the organisation of the Republic of Serbia's security services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Members of Parliament pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, at a session on 3 December 2007, at 1:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 87. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 35, against 128, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 3 December 2007, at 1555, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 135, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nenad Milic, at a session on 3 December 2007, at 16.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 100, 104 and 105. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 135, it did not vote 30 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007.
