ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9822	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 123 national MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ivica Dacic and Esad Judžević. We move to the 1-3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE SERBIA CONSERVATION OF THE SERBIA AND EC CONCERNING THE EASY PROCEDURE FOR VIS, READMISSION AND SCG AND FRANCE ON THE RETURNING AND ACCRUING OF THE PERSON IN THE NEGULAR SITUATION (joint single search) The word has the National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9823	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will present the views of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians on the Agreement on the Facilitated Procedure for the issuing of visas and the Agreement on the Reading of Persons who are illegally staying. These are agreements signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia on 18 September by Mr Dragan Jocic, Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia. First, first of all, I must say that the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will vote in favour of confirming the Facilitated Visa Procedure Agreement, because we believe that this agreement brings such visa reliefs that we must vote in the National Assembly. As the first argument in favour of this, I must stress that the number of necessary documents for citizens of the Republic of Serbia is reduced, based on this agreement, which wants to travel to EU countries, i.e. Schengen countries. On the other hand, it is good that the possibility for a wide range of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to issue visas with a longer period of validity of one, two and five years is envisaged. It is also good that the possibility is provided that our citizens will pay only 35 euros instead of 60 euros. A fairly wide circle of faces has been envisaged to travel along these visa reliefs, alongside those categories of population that have traveled in a more relaxed procedure so far. There are also pensioners, further relatives of our citizens, who are staying in EU countries, journalists, students, scientists, businessmen. It is also important that representatives, or MPs of regional parliaments, of the AP Vojvodina and of the regional government, or the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, will also travel through the facilitated procedure. It is good that this is foreseen by the international agreement. But, on the other hand, I have to point out that, unfortunately, the visa regime is still a rule, and the relief is just an exception. I have to ask the question, why are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia still not on the Schengen White List, that is, why is the Republic of Serbia still not on the Schengen White List? Minister Jocic said yesterday that confirming this agreement is one big step towards the visa-free regime. We agree, of course, but we also think it is not good that the Republic of Serbia is still isolated in a certain sense, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia still need visas. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has not done enough since 2000, in that interest, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia travel without visas to EU countries. We all know that the main reason for this is the 1990s thing, but I also have to point out, as I just said, that the governments haven't done enough since 2000. Why am I saying that since 2000 governments have not done enough in that interest to allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to travel without visas? We all know that there are political and legal conditions for the White Schengen List. We all know that the political condition is full co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the fact that the full co-operation has not yet been reached. The Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians advocates full co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because we think it is the main condition on the way to the EU. We continue to advocate European and Euro-Atlantic integration. In addition to political conditions, there are legal conditions. In July and August, some ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, belonging to the DS, said the National Assembly would adopt 44 laws by November. These are the laws necessary for the EU's approach. I simply have to ask a question to the government's representative – where are these legal proposals? The second question is, is this statement by Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister – that 44 laws will arrive in the assembly procedure by November and that the National Assembly will have to adopt 44 laws by November, the position only of the DS, or is that the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Of these 44 laws, the National Assembly passed only one law, the Law on Travel document, and in the assembly procedure, the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent only two more laws: the proposal for an asylum law and a proposal for a law on the protection of the state border. I do not think that the National Assembly is responsible for not adopting those laws by November, because we cannot pass laws unless the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes these laws to the National Assembly. And now we will deal with the laws needed to call the elections, as we heard it in the media at the weekend, and again we will not discuss those laws that are necessary for the EU to come closer. The Government of the Republic of Serbia, not Parliament, certainly has responsibility for this. I also have to ask Mr Jocic if it is certain that the implementation of the Law on Travel Documents, adopted by the National Assembly, will begin in March or April, as it says in the Law on Travel Documents, because we see that the issue of new ID cards, by the foreign authorities, was due to begin on January 1st. I simply think that there is justification for that opinion, that it is not certain that new travel documents will begin to be issued in March, which is one of the main preconditions for achieving a visa-free regime. Despite the fact that we find it very bad that the visa regime is still a rule, and regardless of what we believe the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not working enough in that interest to reach this famous white Schengen regime, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians will certainly vote in favour of the Agreement on the Facilitated Procedure for the issue of visas. As far as this agreement is concerned, in the end, I must stress the introduction of a system of small-scale traffic, as there is readiness, according to an annex to the agreement, by Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria to enter into negotiations with Serbia in order to carry out small-scale traffic. I must state, on behalf of the SVM, that we are against introducing a system of small-scale traffic between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary for several reasons. I'll give you a brief statement of those reasons. We believe that the possibility of introducing a small-scale traffic system does not meet the requirements for the travel of the Hungarian community. In addition, a significant part of our community, about 40% of our community, would remain within that 50-mile radius of the state border. There would be increased assimilation of the Hungarians outside this band, increased crime on both sides of the border, an opportunity to abuse the right of a small-scale crossing, and there is also a danger of a change in national composition. On 13 April, the parties of the Vojvodina Hungarians held a conference, where they were representatives of our traditional religious communities and civil organisations, and at the conference we concluded that we are against the introduction of a system of small-scale traffic. We delivered these views to the authorities of the Serbian state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we hope that the agreement between Serbia and Hungary will not come. As regards the Agreement on the Facilitated Procedure for the issue of visas, I must say that it is one side of the medal, that the other side of the Medal of the Readmission Agreement is a person who is illegally staying and there is a condition for ratification of the Readmission Agreement to enter into force. As far as the readmission agreement is concerned, I must say, immediately at the beginning, that SVM MPs will vote against ratification of the readmission agreement of persons who are illegally staying and I will state the reasons for this. First of all, we think it's a irrationally wide circle of faces that we're going to have to accept under this readmission agreement. We consider it normal to receive our own citizens who are illegally staying in the territory of a European Union country. It says in the Agreement, if it is credible, that it is the face of a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and it is also normal for us to receive the underage unwed children of those persons and spouses, as well as those whose citizenship of the Republic of Serbia has stopped being laid off. As for the second and third rounds of persons that we will have to accept under this agreement, third-country nationals and stateless persons, we do not think this agreement should have been signed. So, we will have to receive those persons who were in the Republic of Serbia and were in transit through Serbia, persons who possessed a visa from Serbia, and as far as evidence that they were in Serbia and were in transit through Serbia, Annex 3, the Readmission Agreement states that, as evidence of this, they will not only serve stamps from passports, but also hotel accounts, train tickets and testimony that a particular person has crossed the border. I think it's funny that on the basis of some witnesses, on the basis of train tickets and hotel bills, we're going to have to receive third-country nationals as well. Once again, it is an irrational and broad circle of persons that we will have to accept and the question is why such an agreement is signed. First, such an agreement was not signed, allegedly, due to an irrationally broad circle of persons the Republic of Serbia will have to accept, but eventually Minister Jocic signed such an agreement. The question is also, what about returnees from the AP Kosovo and Metohija territory. There is evidence that half of the people we will have to receive from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In Article 21, there is an insufficiently clear provision on what will happen to persons from Kosovo and Metohija's territory. The question is what will happen to these people, whether these people will return to the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija or return to Serbia and Vojvodina. In addition, I must also say that, on the basis of the provisions of the Agreement, the request for a readmission of all those persons will arrive within 1 year, meaning, by 1 January 2008. Our authorities will have to respond to all these requirements within 10 days. If there is no response from our competent authorities, then the transfer will be deemed approved. There are very rigorous conditions for refusing to accept and these people will be back within three months of approval. So these people will be back, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament by April 2009. So it's not true that these people aren't coming back in due time, it's not true that these people aren't coming back within a year or a year or a half, counting on today. These people will be back by April 2009, based on the provisions of this agreement. We still don't know how many returnees we can expect. We read last week in the paper that as of March 2003, just over 23 thousand return requests have arrived, and as far as new returnees are concerned, there are figures between 50,000 and 150 thousand returnees, which will return to the Republic of Serbia. So between 50 and 150 thousand, these people will be back, based on this signed agreement, by April 2009. So far, the Republic of Serbia has signed 17 bilateral readmission agreements, and the bilateral agreements say these people will be returning on certain quotas. The question is why such quotas are not foreseen for this agreement. I have to ask Mr. Jocic, where's the strategy, where's the action plan for implementing this agreement? I am pleased that Mr. Jocic says that he now has all this and exists, but the MPs and the public have not seen it yet. It's a 2006 draft strategy, Mr. Jocic, and we don't understand why this draft isn't accepted. The same question is, where are these people coming back? According to us, according to SVM, these people need to return to their last residence or place of birth, but we don't see guarantees for that. Furthermore, it says there is a joint statement regarding reintegration, about the necessity of socio-economic reintegration. We agree, but in the light of the Agreement, it states that no means are necessary to implement this Agreement. We find it ridiculous, because on the one hand there is a competent readmission service, it is the Service for Human and Minority Rights, and in this Service the government will have to receive new people, for these people will have to provide pay and we do not see where it will be paid, and on the other hand we do not see the means for the necessary socio-economic reintegration. That's how it's going to be an organized return, that's what it says in the explanation. I have to tell Mr. Jocic that there is a movement, and that's what I said to the Defence and Security Committee, to list empty houses in Vojvodina and Serbia. Mr. Jocic said it had nothing to do with the reading. We trust him, but we still don't see the guarantee. Again, I must say that in Article 78(3), there is a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that it is forbidden to take measures that would cause the artificial change of the national composition of the population in areas where members of national minorities live traditionally and in greater numbers. We hope that this provision of the Constitution will be respected and that what happened in the 1990s will not happen again, that there has been an organized change of national structure in Vojvodina. So no funds are needed according to reasons for either the socio-economic reintegration of returnees, or the salaries of officials in the Service for Human and Minority Rights, and these people are due to return by April 2009. Just to say, and to this end, Mr. President, that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians is voting against the Readmission Agreement for three reasons: the first, which is an irrationally broad circle of the person, which we are going to have to accept; the second, which has no government strategy adopted and which, in its explanation, says no means are needed to implement this agreement; the third, which is not a guarantee that Article 78 will not be violated. The constitution, on the basis of which it is forbidden to change the ethnic structure. For these three reasons, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians votes against the Readmission Agreement, and we vote for the Visa Facilitation Agreement, regardless of what we think the Republic of Serbia and the Government should do much more intensively in that interest for Serbian citizens to travel without a visa to the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9824	Thank you. The word is Minister Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9825	Only about this last thing Ambassador Pastor said, which he said was also a little bit of concern to the Security Committee. In fact, he presented one fact that today in Serbia, i.e. in Vojvodina, in Bačka, a list of abandoned properties and houses is being made. He expressed concern that the state of Serbia is doing so to settle in these facilities, i.e. to place people who are returned to the country on the basis of a readmission. I said it was not true, and I also explained – that the Ministry of the Interior is establishing a long forgotten sectoral way of working, that sector files are being established in every place, that we know who lives, that we simply have control over crime and developments in certain inhabited areas. I said one more thing - that those who are brought to Serbia will be directed to their place of residence, but you cannot, because you are Hungarian, say that they cannot move, and you cannot violate the constitutional provision in Article 39. A constitution that says everyone has the right to move freely and live in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9826	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9827	I would like to thank Mr. Jocic, for repeating to the MPs what he said at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, that it is not justified to be concerned about the censusing of these empty houses. I just said that it means a lot to us what Mr. Minister said. We do not understand why he did not immediately answer the parliamentary question we asked on October 2nd. I must say that Mr. Jocic, on October 15th, has writtenly informed Mr. Vargo and I that there is no knowledge of the list of empty houses, but we are pleased that he said on the Assembly Committee that this has nothing to do with the Readmission Agreement. He also said at a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, that the national structure of the population will not change and that we have no reason to be concerned. In addition, I must say that the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians do not dispute with anyone the constitutional law relating to freedom of movement, we do not dispute with anyone from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the freedom of residence, but we also want to say that we were all witnesses that ten years ago the state organised a change in the national structure in Vojvodina. I only told Mr. Minister that we do not want that to happen again, because the readmission agreement says that this return will be organised and that the Republic of Serbia, or the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, will take care of those persons. So, we don't dispute freedom of movement to anyone, we don't dispute the freedom to settle for anyone, more or less, I just said that all these people should, of course, regardless of their nationality, return to their place of residence in Serbia or the place of birth. We also want to point out that there is another provision in the Constitution that prohibits all measures that would cause artificial changes in the population. I once again appeal to all state authorities to respect this provision of the Constitution and not to change the national structure, and we will, of course, respect the constitutional provision of freedom of movement and freedom of residence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9828	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9829	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 100(3) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Yesterday, Mr. President, you brutally violated the Rules of Procedure and Article 91(1) when you denied me the opportunity to give an explanation for the proposal to extend the agenda of the current session. After that, you also violated Article 100(3) when you failed to explain why you did it that way. Not only did you not answer me, but after consulting with the secretary, when he told you that I was right, during my address to you, you left the assembly session, i.e. practically escaped from the O.R. I think that gesture of yours was completely uncultured, a gesture that once a Subotian should not be unique in any way. Of course, I also understand why you did not give me the opportunity to explain this bill and did not create an opportunity to open a debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting. In fact, at the end of this debate, it would be clear to all of us that only the DS parliamentary group in this National Assembly has no intention of preserving the public information system in the languages of national minorities. You, Mr. President, are looking for a gentlemen's agreement with the opposition to make the work of the Assembly more effective and, on the one hand, put all opposition parties in the same box, which is offensive to us. You're trying to create a picture that there's one smart, beautiful, European parliamentary majority, and on the other hand, one opposition that's been obstructing the work of the National Assembly all along, of course, the opposition is doing it at some point, but it's doing it to your fault, because you're not able to establish order at the National Assembly sessions. A much bigger problem is that the opposition itself sometimes obstructs the work of the National Assembly. You would like us representatives of national minorities, authentic representatives, to behave the way representatives of national minorities behave in your parliamentary club, i.e. that during all the debates, you are practically silent, and then, in the end, by your instructions to press the appropriate key. We won't agree to that. We will fight for the rights of members of the national minorities, and we will always warn you, we will never be silent when you commit a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, as you did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9830	Thank you. Yesterday, when the agenda was established, it was voted when an emergency procedure took place and it was done without a search. So that's my answer to your question. In voting day, the Assembly can plead. One thing I ask you, Mr. Varga, is that you are now doing a local campaign, transferring the atmosphere from the Saturday Parliament here and trying to attack me as your party's strongest opponent in Subotica. Don't do that and don't ever teach me culture, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Munir Poturak appeared and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9831	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I got a memo from the New Market Reintegration Association. I would like, on this basis, to provide some information that is already known to the public, but I would like to note why it is important that, in addition to the adoption of this agreement, certain conditions are provided for people who have already been expelled from the European Community countries and those who should be delivered to Serbia in some way. According to the data available, there are no official ones, but from the safe sector, the Association estimates that about 50,000 returnees have already been placed in the area from Novi Pazar to Prepolje, in the six Sandzak municipalities. Among them are about 87 per cent of Bosniaks, 8 per cent of Roma, and the rest are Serbs and Gorans. The real data is only currently provided by the Luxembourg-based organisation, along with the Red Cross in Novi Pazar, about 20,000, 82% of which are Bosniaks, about 8% of Roma, and the rest are Serbs and Gorans. What happened to the people who are already there is a problem with their integration in the space itself. It is known that since 1992 they have been out of our country, they have been out of the system for 14 years – it is already a person who has graduated from primary school, whose children have completed primary schools abroad and have trouble adapting, where they come from. It is known that from the moment of their application, as a household community where they once lived, to the moment of their application to the National Employment Service, the amount of money for each person is about 3,000 dinars; of 900 dinars, how much they cost assurances about the common household of the Republic Public Revenue Authority, and through the assurance of citizenship, through the assurance of birth, and even for every child, about 1800 dinars. There are about 23 thousand unemployed in Novi Pazar, please let me finish by saying, because these are very important details, a large number of unemployed persons, with a large number of people deported from Western European countries, with low education, I think there will still be major problems with these coming persons, if the programme is not made, and if perhaps the only solution is, such as this draft strategy, which you have praised, Mr. Minister, will not be officially adopted, to be a adoption programme and to be some institution that will deal with them. I think it's important in a situation where there are about a million unemployed people in this country. Please pay attention and see some things, the irregularities that are happening in Pazar, and regarding the very process of housing of people who are being deported from abroad...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9832	I'm sorry, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure and you're discussing something that's not on the agenda. Why don't you just take your word for it, and talk about it? Please, your time is up, I'm sorry. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic appeared, and before him Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9833	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there's been a misunderstanding between the two of us, Mr. President. Yesterday and today, I advertised a violation of Article 91(1). Rules of Procedure. I have proposed that the agenda be extended with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting, and according to Article 91 on proposed amendments and amendments to the agenda, a search is carried out in which they can participate, and this is set out in the Rules of Procedure. After the session, I came to the deputy secretary of the assembly and asked if I was right in his opinion, and he confirmed that I was, unfortunately, right. This is not the first chance you, Mr. President, are insulting the MPs from the presidency, and if you have anything to say to us, then step out and tell us your arguments. I had no intention of teaching you culture, I just said it was rude when I spoke to you and advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you made, that you simply got up and left the room. Unfortunately, if this continues, you will be one of the presidents of the National Assembly who will enter history because rarely your promise is fulfilled on the other hand, rarely your prognosis is true. I want to quote your words, not because I think you're a great classic, but to prove to you what I said. Last Wednesday, you said we were only interested in showing that the state is not concerned about information in minority languages, and that you care about the state finding a legal way to inform its minorities. You promised yourself that you would make a personal effort to find a way to legally solve a problem that has been plagued by all national communities, which is informing in the languages of national minorities, but to do it in the right way, and not in the right way. Please, Mr. President, give me information on how you think to solve the problem that came from the privatisation of Radio Sombora, Radio Srbobran, and the Tower Information Centre, but please don't deceive the public again, how many years you've done that when you claimed that the municipal media is gone and that we're looking for something impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9834	Mr Varga, Article 162 paragraph 4, says: "On any proposal to put on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, the National Assembly shall, without delay, decide on the agenda, or at the time of the sitting, immediately upon receipt of the proposal provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 Members of Parliament". So, this member of the Rules of Procedure was applied yesterday, and if you are not satisfied with the answer, I suggest that in the day for the vote we make this clear. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic reported, and then Srdjan Shin. Here you go. I, indeed, ask the MPs to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dulic, I advertise the violation of Article 104, which says the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect. Mr. Dulic, you are the first among the equal, therefore you are also a people's messenger, and he commits you 104. What we just saw was an insult to MP Varga, because you said, don't teach me how to behave. What does that mean? That means there's someone who can teach you and someone else can't. All MPs, at least before you, should be equal and should respect the criticisms of all MPs of this House. What I have to notice is that you respect someone's criticism, suffer and keep quiet, and yet you respond to other criticisms as you have now answered. The fact is, Mr. Dulic, you went out at a critical moment yesterday, and the fact is, it's your manners. So when things get serious here and you don't have answers, then either, one, you pull out and you go out or, two, the other option is to act the way you're treating Mr. Varga right now. It's your manners and not just yours, it's the retreat and the manner of your party. I think you represent her the right way. Insults fall, Mr. Dulic, when arguments remain silent and I ask that Parliament on this breach of the Rules of Procedure plead in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9836	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9837	Your Honor, I really appreciate and respect that we're talking about the agenda, and I wouldn't have answered, as I've given up a lot of times, if it hadn't been for a colleague from your MP club to get up and do something that wasn't appropriate. I need colleagues from the Sandzak Democratic Party, Rasim Ljajic, to say only one thing – it is not your obligation in Parliament just to talk about Pazar. Your duty in Parliament is to speak of all Muslims, Roma. The other day you were in Nis, and you're articulating that electoral body, you're going after Vojvodina, you're going after Belgrade, you're going after Serbia, you're posing as their legitimate representatives, and you need to know the information...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9838	Mr. Shane, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9839	Article 225 and 226, in that sense, you have to get information, because you as president and your fellow MP, means what information he needs to talk about. In translation, if you haven't stopped him, I don't think it's right for me either. Next, let me say one more thing, your colleague must know that about 100,000 citizens of Serbia are returning to Serbia, of which, about 50,000 members of the Roma National Community and that these are not just Roma from Sandzak, but Roma from all over Serbia. They are citizens of Serbia, from all parts of Serbia. He must be very clear here to say whether it is for this law and thus declare himself before his electoral body, who is trying to convince that he is their representative, or against these laws, and not that, by the time of DS as a parliamentary club, he speaks and presents himself to a certain thesis, and then presses a green button and says, "I am still for this law, but I, you know, left the impression that I represent you, you do not need representatives of your national minority, because I will best introduce you. This is how you represent 30,000 Roma whose votes you took, tens of thousands returned to asylum, people who were left without bread, houses, homes, whose thresholds you visited at the time of the campaign. I think it is correct for these voters to press the red button when it comes to the law on readmission, precisely you, representatives of the Sandzak Democratic Party, Rasim Ljajic, and repay those voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9840	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stojanka Petkovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9841	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to Rules of Procedure Articles 225 and 226. I will ask two questions to the resolution ministries, and on the basis of a request from the Alliance of Pensioners of Kosovo and Metohija, on the initiative to amend and supplement the Law on PIO and introduce a Kosovo supplement. In fact, more than 20,000 pensioners living in Kosovo and Metohija have retired under the law since 1 January 1992, causing great damage and injustice. This put them in a position to have 50% lower pensions than pensioners who retired under the new Serbian law, beyond January 1, 1992, when the Retirement Act in Kosovo ceased to apply. Thus, according to this group of pensioners, a serious injustice has been committed which has been being carried out for years and the disproportions are increasing, as this issue has not been resolved for years, and their demands are ignored both by the RS government and the relevant resolution ministries. For your knowledge, between 1975 and 1988, the largest number of workers "Trepce" in plants across Kosovo – Zvecan, Leposavic, Pristina, Pec, Djakovica, Gjilane, Novo Brdo, was produced in pensioners, mainly because of a policy conducted in Kosovo to improve the national structure of employees, compared to five to one in favour of Albanians, allegedly due to difficult working conditions, and the same was true of other social enterprises and institutions in Kosovo, and in health, education, judiciary and local self-government bodies. In this way, a precedent was created with a large number of pensioners, as many as 50% of the total number of pensioners in Kosovo, of which in certain municipalities and more than 70% are workers and disabled "Trepce". So my first question, which the pensioners asked me to ask, is, and given that changes are now being made and amendments to the Law on PIO in Serbia – is there a possibility that pensions of pensioners who retired under the old Law, which was valid until 1 January 1992, with pensioners who retired after 1 January 1992, have improved the status of pensioners in Kosovo. The second question, which the pensioners asked me to ask, is that in the conclusion of the RS government, which resolved the status of state bodies, organisations, public services, the status of local units and all employees in those bodies, was regulated by having personal income plus 100% Kosovo supplement, so in education, healthcare, local self-government and social protection, and all other categories are protected, except for pensioners who are located at KIM. Since pensioners in Kosovo make up one third of the population and since they are in a difficult situation in life, they are unable to use agricultural land... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up asking and asking the competent ministry to find the possibility for all pensioners, out of working relationship, family pensioners, farmers' pensioners, to receive compensation in terms of a 100% Kosovo allowance compared to their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9842	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9843	Mr. Dulic, let's finally start talking about the law. Before I explain the reasons why the SRS will not vote for these three draft laws, Mrs. Nada, I have reached the Supreme Court's verdict, to see what your Petrovic and Bosko Ristic are doing. So what I was saying yesterday is it's absolutely true, and I've come to the verdict that you know what this is about, that I would never bring out anything that isn't true, because I don't want to do any harm to my party that I've been making. That's what you need to know. I'll get a photocopy of your verdict later, see what the DS individuals have gotten themselves into, because I still couldn't tie this to the whole party. Mr. Jocic, before we even take a serious look at these three draft laws, I think you are obliged to explain to the national MPs and the public in Serbia some more details that are relevant to these three draft laws. First of all, I know that you did not participate in the negotiations, but rather led the negotiations by this Labus Exposition, the Association Commission. There's this blonde lady who keeps taking pictures, likes to take pictures in Brussels, she's been running these negotiations and talks. They probably tricked you into signing it, because when you hear what I'm about to tell you, I'm absolutely sure you would never sign it. In order for SRS MPs to be able to talk more seriously about this bill, you need to tell us first of all how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia give their own personal resources, or how many euros do they have to pay foreign embassies and consular offices in Belgrade to get a Schengen visa to go to one of these countries in Western Europe? You know what categories of citizens are speaking for a Schengen visa. There are few tourist trips, these relatively, have these spy combinations, go abroad and file a report. Someone gets a Schengen visa for three months, someone at six, someone a year, someone on two, and somebody doesn't need a Schengen visa. For example, criminals don't need a Schengen visa at all. So take them out of this account. Why is this information significant? When we know how many Serbian citizens from their savings that for a Schengen visa, then we can compare that amount to some assumed amount that Mrs. Tanja Miscevic has stated that Serbia will get by signing these agreements. The only argument in the public, which was present, why this is a good way to the EU, is – we will get money, with these money, we will take care of that number of people who return, banish, from abroad. Let's see what that's like. Why? It is mathematically possible that everything the citizens of the Republic of Serbia give in the name of a fee to obtain a Schengen visa, that these funds were returned to Serbia only through the EU in order to keep those returning. Then you should warn Mrs. Tanja Miscevic that we are funding the readmission, not Western Europe. So, clean bill - long love. That's why I'm saying, Mr. Jocic, when you were in Brussels on October 17th to sign on that big table, I know you felt the same way as Chanak when the election was in 2000. Those poor people were sitting on their hands, shaking their hands when they were about to round Kostunica, and you were sitting on a plane on your hand, numbing your hand, that, when you had to sign, you had to sign this agreement with trouble. We don't have that information. I'd appreciate the information. For example, it is said -- over the year, so many thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are seeking and receiving a Schengen visa, times 35 euros. When it is multiplied, there is Albianic, he can calculate it in a moment, so many million euros are spent to make our citizens go to Western Europe. Now let's see how much they finance the return of our citizens. If that's in some way, then we don't need this agreement, but we're funding the reading ourselves. Then I would vote in favour of your agreement, provided that 35 euros are not paid for a Schengen visa, but that these money is left here as a social contribution for Serbian citizens, because they travel abroad and want to help those who return have elementary social security. Why am I saying this? Because ever since this pig democracy with the arson of the Federal Assembly, Mr Meso, we've had cartoons. The DOS first introduced itself to us, so when the DOS ran out, then they invented a democratic block. After the democratic bloc ran out, they, Meso, have now invented something new, he said -- next in the elections against the SRS, Euro-Atlantic reformists will find themselves. So you're Euro-Atlantic reformers. What does that mean? It's like your lawyer says "practical," and it's nowhere in the dictionary. That's what we're going through. And I know Mr. Jocic wouldn't sign the scam, at least I hope he didn't sign the scam. We don't have that kind of information. Whenever any of Labus’ pioneers arrive in the National Assembly, I am amazed. Anything that comes from the EU's Association Office, know it's a difficult prank. I'm sure that prank can only be solved by Ivana Dulic-Markovic, pulsing G17 plus on the buttocks. In that sense, I help her, I open her eyes with this data. Mr. Jocic, I'm interested in what happens if we don't sign these agreements. What is going to happen epochally to the citizens of Serbia? To be more precise, what could be worse than what's already hit us? For a few years now, I've been thinking, I go to church every week, I light a candle - what are we Serbs so sorry to God to punish us with DS in power?- I'm sorry. I don't understand it at all. What is our sin, what have we done to punish us like this?- I'm sorry. What would happen if these three agreements weren't signed? Shut up. And in parentheses, between the lines and the individual newspapers, it's said: we're going to Europe. However. It's already messed up, it's worn out. The second thing that's going on is, we're going to get money. You know, for several years in this National Assembly, the only argument to vote for some laws to adopt is: The European Union gives us money. Then we proved that 35% of these pairs remained the EU, through some mafia combinations, consulting services, counselling, seminars, etc. There's a hunger for money here. Money comes from Europe, it has to be adopted. But there are also those moralists who say: this is how we show our readiness for the EU, our readiness for the EU that takes away Kosovo and the Metohija. It's very easy to conclude, you vote for those who tell us in our eyes that they're not really our friends, that I don't use any more difficult word, that maybe you'd better describe who they are and what they are. For the sake of Serbian citizens, since we have a mirage called the EU here. I have to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we're really dividing, we're dividing on these over here, they're Eurofanatics and Eurosceptics here. Eurofanatics accept everything that comes from the EU, and Eurosceptics are people who are the prototype of the intellectual of the HH century, who want to take a critical look at everything, Mr Micunovic; to be evaded, to measure, what is plus, what is a minute, if there are pluses – can, if there are minuses - cannot. You know that well. Here, for seven years, you can't lift that computer system of yours in the Federal Assembly. Now people say it's only one day to work to justify that money, but there's nothing from that system. That's the Eurofanatism. He is much stronger in Serbia than in Europe, you know. Here's proof of that. Mr. Jocic, you're probably aware that in this readmission agreement, it says in the very agreement who he commits. Of course, you'll nod your head to confirm what's standing here. This does not apply to Denmark, this does not apply to Iceland, this does not apply to Norway, this does not apply to Switzerland. What's with the West? There's something new going on in the West. Mr. Jocicu, I was in France or June, and Natasa, and she led a delegation with Mr. Obradovic, and Ceca Topalovic was also, perhaps I dropped someone – very fruitful. In the National Assembly of France, we held a conversation with the head of the Commission of one of those committees on the European Union and European integration. You know what the French say? Goco, you know that very well. Of course, their representative of the Commission says -- you know what, we had to make our own committee and our own body, which is checking what they do in the European Union. Isn't that right, Grill? We don't catch everything that flies. Oh, it's not all about eating. We're just what France fits. What doesn't correspond to France doesn't interest us at all. That's why I asked them about the budget deficit in Germany. Five years is over 5%, which is the opposite of Mastricht. Of course, someone does not object, who can object. Anyone who may object, neither the Portuguese nor the Greeks, shall object. So how do these rules of the European Union apply? Secondly, do we sign with the European Coal Community or with the European Union this agreement. Have you seen here in the text, little European community, little European Union, few members, few not members. You have to explain it to us, Mr. Jocic. What's this about? You got a math assignment, you handle it. Mr. Jocic, a few months ago, your Ministry took over the border. Now, Mr. Jocic, do you know that this new border police force is probably having some of its initial problems, but I'm warning you and I think there will be permanent problems, they haven't made any patrols along the line where the border is, and that listening technique never comes. So, besides our market being open, as a can for sardines, all our borders are open. Any antidote can pass through Serbia, go there, and give it back to you. To give it back to us. Now, Mr. Jocic, I'm deliberately speaking a little bit more interesting because of the audience, not because of you, you know very well, you will accept everything here, because you have an obligation to stay where you are, who you are and how you are. Gentlemen of the SPS, let me say, your amendments are good, they should have gone after the second member, not to be within the first member, and these thugs here will immediately refuse it, so there won't be a vote, but they've already refused. I know how they work. Did I tell you that I know them very well? I must tell the citizens of Serbia that there is nothing epochal in this bill. Just because two papers are less likely to be given to get a Schengen visa doesn't mean anything. Why? Because what's designed is designed in a way that takes our money. From us, our money is given to them, and we need to be content and jump with happiness. That is what it is. It is not what beats me, but it makes me rejoice and enjoy it. That's their tactics. I know Jocic doesn't like it, he's proud, he's a defiant, purple guy, this is what they forced him to do, they tricked him into signing. Djelic did not have the courage to go there, because he would certainly have fallen here, no one else should have, but rather the police minister had a force behind him and a voice in the people had it not been like these yellow ones. He doesn't like to arrest, that's the problem, and that's where he and I are different. You see, Mr. Jocic, and so far a diplomat is going to pay the state their way. He says, business people and representatives of business society and so far have not been a problem for them to go. Drivers, they didn't have any problems either, the crew members had no problems, for journalists, journalists were paying the way, giving them money from abroad and saying – come as soon as possible to teach you how to break Serbia. Furthermore, I have to put my glasses on, he says, for people who participate in scientific, cultural, artistic activities, and if not, they don't pay those from abroad when it comes to pharmacists, they're paid by a pharmaceutical organisation, a quotation, a accompanying letter, a guarantee letter, and they get until now, Mr. Jocic, there was no problem. I didn't hear any of them couldn't go. Students, students, graduates, teachers who follow participants, and go on a journey for educational purposes, so far, the same has not been a problem. Participants at sports events, there were no problems. For some of our athletes there were problems, because they're much better athletes than they are from abroad, so they don't give them a visa so they don't win the game there. It wasn't really a problem, because all of our best players are abroad, so they already have a Schengen. Then, for participants in official programmes, the situation was never a problem. For close relatives, spouses, children, parents, grandparents, etc. Those who already reside there were some problems, but in principle solved, a guarantee letter, etc. To visit military and civilian cemeteries, according to our military cemetery abroad, not to tell you how this country behaves. If I were to remind you in Tunisia, there's a cemetery called "Biserta", I don't think for ten years no one was, or even that drunken ambassador from Tunisia. Maybe you were like a tourist, Mr. Shami, I couldn't go this year or as a tourist, because there were no tours, there were no Serbs involved, and I have to tell you Mr. Shami. There were no Serbs interested in visiting a military cemetery, and they came to lie there at sea. That's why I couldn't go, and it was expensive for you to go alone, because it was far away. For those in need of medical treatment and their necessary escort, that was no problem either. For representatives of civil society organisations – I will fight for Sonja Biserko's benefit, I will cut my hands before I can cut. Miljenka Deretta, Natasha Kandic, they already have a visa for 25 years, already have a Schengen. And for them to fight, please don't embarrass us. For representatives of religious communities, there were problems, Mr. Jocic, he couldn't even take office in Australia, although Australia was not in the European Union, but there were problems with the representatives of our church. For the members of the professions who participate in international exhibitions, that is, the one who organizes it provides them with everything. For persons who go on tourist trips, the travel agency provides. Mr. Jocic, that means all those who have money to travel and have traveled so far. You've only accelerated them, instead of five documents, they'll file four. Instead of 35 euros, as was the case, but the whole of Serbia should jump for joy. And that peasant on Selevichevica, who follows this transmission, says epochal, and I remind you, Mr. Jocic, of another reason why you couldn't sign this if you weren't immigrants. This is an interstate for that promise by Boris Tadic, when during the pre-election campaign he was fine in front of the Italian embassy, so he simply complained that Serbian citizens were waiting in line for a Schengen visa, so he said – vote for me, and when I'm president, you'll all get a white Schengen visa. Three and a half years passed, he didn't provide himself with a Schengen visa. It's not for itself. Dear citizens, if this was a bit of a joke, it was deliberately done to show what empty pumpkins look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9844	The word has been given by MP Laslo Varga, as an authorised representative of the Vojvodjani Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9845	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the visa relief agreement concerns, of course, the conclusion of this agreement is welcomed by the Vojvodjanski MPs and I would not like to discuss it. As far as the readmission agreement is concerned, I'd like to say a few things about this agreement. As it usually happens in Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia is beginning to think about a problem at a time when the time for thinking has long expired. Since 2003, a readmission process has taken place, and to create a clear picture, a conference was held on July 20th 2005 where all problems were put on the table. In two months, the practical implementation of the readmission agreement begins and the reading starts between 50,000 and 100,000 persons, and at this point, unfortunately, the government has no strategy or action plan and, of course, the other things that would be necessary to implement this agreement. Mr. Minister said there would be no mass return. I'd like to quote one sentence on the seventh side of the draft strategy that exists. According to the sentence, this situation opens up the possibility of returning more than 100,000 persons under the readmission agreement. So that's what the government file says. And what does the government do today? Just a few days ago, the government still presented the draft strategy, which was prepared by the former Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and again within a conference. In our view, at this point, the state would have to have a strategy long ago, it would have to have an action plan, to be ready to implement the action plan, of course, to provide budget resources. As things stand, the action plan will be about a year from now, and budgets may never be. Once again, I would like to say, so neither SVM MPs nor MPs of the Vojvodjani Club are against the conclusion of this agreement and the ratification of this agreement. We are aware that this was a condition for obtaining visa relief and a condition for the continuation of European integration, but we are against such government policies that operate solely on the basis of momentum and which, according to us, is completely irresponsible. We believe that the government must or should sign an agreement on which it would be clear that persons with the last place of residence in Kosovo and Metohija cannot return to central Serbia and Belgrade or Vojvodina. So I have no doubt that it was the government's intention in the negotiations, but unfortunately, the government was unable to negotiate and vote for it. So, earlier agreements contained monthly reading quotas, this agreement doesn't even contain it. Mr. Pastor spoke and accurately outlined the deadline within which this agreement must be implemented. On the other hand, the implementation of the agreement also requires huge financial resources. According to the draft strategy data, on the one hand, the recommendation of the working group which rules out the draft strategy was that the state should take into account the conclusion of a readmission agreement and the country's social and economic potential to receive a number of returnees. That, unfortunately, is not what the state considered. On the other hand, on page 34 of this document, it says that a permanent settlement of one person's position is three thousand US dollars. That means if we multiply by those 100,000 people, that means about 200m euros would be needed to implement this agreement. For comparisons, the entire budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2007 totals 350m euros. And to make this even sadder, in the light of the bill, it says that the implementation of this law does not require the involvement of funding funds by the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, this, of course, is not only a problem for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, nor for the Ministry of Interior, but also for other ministries, for the Ministry of Education, for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, for the Ministry of Health. It is very irresponsible that even at this point, there is no inter-resor body that would solve the problems of future returnees. It is now announced, two months before the implementation of this or the application of this agreement, that it will be an interresor body formed. I think that proves it's the government's supreme irresponsibility. An agreement will educate a commission to implement the readmission agreement between Serbia and the EU. We, SVM MPs, ask that, in addition to the representatives of the state authorities and those of the national communities affected by this agreement, so, besides Roma and Bosniaks, the representatives of the Hungarian community are involved, and that for the very reason that there is a great fear among the members of our community, which Mr Pastor was otherwise talking about, that the application of this agreement will re-produce a change in the ethnic structure of the municipalities in which our community lives in large numbers, because, of course, the biggest problem for the implementation of this agreement is the accommodation of these persons. There is a statement by the government officials, and also by Mr. Minister himself, that the government is reluctant to implement this agreement against the provisions of Article 78. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia means that it has no intention of taking measures that would cause the artificial change in the national composition of the population, but we must also say that, given the developments in the past decade, we are not convinced of that. Furthermore, I would like to quote two more sentences from this draft strategy to prove this to my claim, or to support our fear. On page 36, the national strategy provides for the purchase of old houses and gardens and for their adaptation, and on page 38, it states that returnees should be included in alternative forms of housing, such as the purchase of abandoned households. Of course, nowhere in this document has this working group added that the ransom and alternative housing of returnees cannot be implemented against the provisions of Article 78. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And I must say, on this agreement, that we do not believe, that unfortunately, neither the DSS nor the DS, that the Human Rights Service, run by the DS, was not enough for a year and a half to make a strategy for implementing the Readmission Agreement, of course, and action plan. I think that's a good reason not to believe, or that we can't trust the Service of Human and Minority Rights or the Government. On the other hand, we can't trust DS either. In this regard, I would like to mention a statement by Mrs Jelena Markovic, or several of her statements, since 4 June 2005, when she was the assistant minister of human and minority rights, she said at that time that there would be no mass return of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro from the West. Unfortunately, we see that there will be mass return. At this point, there are 24 thousand demands. On the other hand, she then stated that there is a strategy and action plan for the integration of SCG citizens who come for a readmission, but not financial resources. Of course, this is not true either, because there is no strategy at this point, nor is there financial resources. According to her then, never in talks with representatives of Western countries mentioned the possibility that non-Albanians from Kosovo would return to central Serbia. The agreement provides for something completely different, and in practice something else is being implemented. Last week, a conference organised by the Human and Minority Rights Service reported that half of the returnees who had returned had been resident earlier in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Now I would like to quote, or to talk about some of the recommendations that this working group wrote at the time, and those recommendations are in this draft strategy, which, unfortunately, have not been brought to life, except for one. The recommendation was that the State should continue its activities with the aim of concluding the Readmission Agreement. It's done. The readmission agreement has been concluded. One of these 68 recommendations is that the state had to take into account the socio-economic opportunities of the country when it concluded this agreement. It's not done. The task force has recommended that co-operation should be established between state institutions in order to coordinate. It's not done either, there's no such thing as an interresor body. Then, in order to organise a donor conference to raise funds, such a conference is not organised either. Furthermore, in order to develop the measures provided for in the draft strategy – these measures are not developed. Also, that should provide additional resources to the municipalities above all. Of course, those funds are not provided either. The proposal clarifies that implementation of this agreement does not require any funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is completely incomprehensible to us. Finally, I want to say, we are aware of the need to conclude this readmission agreement, however, for all of those reasons that I have listed by the Vojvodian MPs, and neither the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will vote for ratification of this agreement. Because, once again, there is no strategy, there is no action plan, there is no means to implement this agreement, and there are no security guarantees that the Government will not take measures that would lead to the change in the ethnic structure of the population in municipalities where national minorities live in large numbers. In the end, I would also like to invite representatives of national minorities sitting at the DS and G17 Plus MPs not to vote to confirm this agreement, so that they do not later have to be ashamed of their actions, if these very realistic forecasts I have made are true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9846	We're moving on to a debate. Before I give my word to the messenger of the people Srdjan Shayn, the Messenger of Munir Poturak appeared to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9847	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Shane, I have not momentarily taken away in my speech whether it is the Bosniaks or the Roma Muslim or Islamic or Serbian, anything in that direction. My intention was when I mentioned the percentages, from 82 to 95, I only spoke based on the exact statistics that I could get from the memo, which I'm going to deliver to you from the Association of Reintegration. The whole point of what I was saying is to take advantage of the opportunity, here we have Mr. Minister, to point out the situation of people who are already on the ground, what I know, what has been checked; that people have a problem from the moment of application, to wait for up to five months to get the status of persons who can use health insurance. So if the child is sick, he has to pay for private treatment. If it's a mother, a foster mother, she has to pay, in order to sort of, if there's a document, I've only mentioned how much it costs, whether it's Roma, Bosniak or anyone else, it's all about the problems that concern all people in that direction. The whole point is that, if possible, any institutions within the ministry are formed within other ministries that can help care for nearly 50,000 people who are in the Sandzak area, down there, and almost 150 to 200 thousand people who are due to be returned to Serbia in the next period. That is the problem I have reacted to and noted that I am currently having problems, as a citizen of Serbia, piling up on the premises of certain cities. I mentioned that Novi Pazar has a very large number of unemployed people. If so many people are recently deported, the problems accumulate automatically. That's what this is about. So it is necessary to establish the programme, to determine the dynamics that people will return to the readmission process. The whole point is that. The second part of politics is what every political party has, a chance to get in Serbia's space, no matter where we have a chance to turn to the nation, to offer each of our own programmes. There's no limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9848	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shin has the word, and let Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9849	I just have to take at least a minute to get my colleagues to answer. This document, prepared by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, was then Minister Rasim Ljajic, in the opening section, it is said that at the end of this document you can find who all the subjects participated in the drafting of this document. The creation of this document was attended by representatives of state bodies, domestic institutions, and in the part – local community representatives, there are all organisations from Novi Pazar, exclusively the NGO from Novi Pazar, and no one from the Roma National Community is consulted, not even the Roma National Council. What you were talking about, pal, just confirms what I was talking about last time, which is, you're running a Sandzak Democratic Party program that's talking about Sandzak. It's not a dispute, it's not a dispute. I just want to ask you that what you said you should tell your party president that he and his ministry are forming a body that will deal with these issues. You'll do it easier on party organs than we'll do here at the pay phone. To go back to the part I wanted to bring up on this. Why is the Roma Party against returning people from the readmission process? Why can't I support that law? First, I have to answer the question of who these people are, who are the people who are coming back from the reading process. I was talking about the number. It is about 100,000 Serbian citizens, of which about 50,000 are members of the Roma national community. The second thing is, it's people who sold their houses, in those unfortunate times, I don't care who's responsible for that unfortunate time, but I'm interested because 100,000 Serbian citizens got killed then, people sold their houses, went to the West, and now they have to go back -- and where are they going to go back? How do they get back to their houses when they're sold? How to get back to Kosovo in their houses that have been destroyed. We heard statements from Bujanovac a month ago, where the ruling coalition of Albanian parties is, the president of the municipality says very clearly – to all Roma in the "Salvadore" camp, we will help them return to Kosovo. So they won't integrate them into their environment. The mayor of Belgrade, at least now performs that function, Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic says – under Gazela, we will only integrate those from Belgrade, others do not interest us, let them do what they want. Also, there's a declaration in the Senti where it's said - we're going to integrate people who live in our territory. I ask you, when this readmission contract is signed and it is sent to Serbia tens of thousands of refugees and displaced from Kosovo, tens of thousands who have been in former SFRY republics, where are we going with these people? We'll probably move them from one city to another, and we won't know what to do with them. That's why the Roma Party is against this contract, not because we don't understand its need, but we don't think the conditions are created, there's no climate for it. Next, to answer the question, who are these people? Families went there 15 years ago, children were born there, children learned language there, children learned one way of life. Who's going to integrate them here? I don't see that we have solutions here. I don't see that we have any concrete action. The agreement uses two terms: a security term and an orderly return term. The important thing is to send them to airports, some of them had prints of foxes from the countries they came from, some of them were arrested there, that all the property had to be left in those countries where they came from, and here we meet them at the airport and we tell them – go and do as you please and glad, we don't know what we're going to do with you. I think we should support the Visa Facilitation Act, because we want to open the case, and to conclude, since it has already been five minutes, to confirm that these are not empty stories and at the consultation where they were representatives of the Council of Europe, where Ms. Donka Banovic, many European Council parliamentarians have shown concern about this issue and many have supported the opinion that responsibility must be shared by Serbia and the international community. Without such a joint action plan, without such conditions, we cannot talk about the quality of these people's integration process, because Serbia has many socially unsettled categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9850	The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and let Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9851	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to use the presence of Minister Jocic, to ask the question under Article 226, when he will realise, realize, the promise he made in June 2005, at a press conference held in Bujanovac. He then promised that the border crossings in Presevo, Miratovac, Strezovac and Slavovec would be opened soon, and based on the government's decision of April that year when a decision was made to open these border crossings. And after a severe incident in January of that year, when a 15-year-old student in Dashna Hajrullah was killed by members of the army's border unit, a serious problem, has been delayed for two or three years, the government's decision is not being implemented. Also, in this time that I have left, I raise the question raised yesterday at the opening ceremony of the reconstruction of the main border crossing in Presevo. Minister Vela Ilic, after exhibiting here in this hall, said a highway from Macedonia's border to Leskovac would be made, but provided that the Presevo municipality does not block those works. I am now asking the question – if at that border crossing, whose construction began in 1992, and the reconstruction through the European Agency, which opened yesterday in a solemn manner, and most of these possessions have not yet been solved by property-law, have not yet been compensated, there is no interference with the construction of the border crossing, why the highway, which is also a project of state interest, is awaiting any will or decision of the Presevo municipality. It's clear, I started the question here, just the SO Presevo in the Interspeed case, when it was the current commercial part, in which it was normal to expect local self-government to have competences, that at that time there was no respected request from SO Presevo to examine the illegality and monopoly given to that company, precisely by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It's just that this project is not being built, a stock from the border to Leskovec, only because the government hasn't put it as a priority for this country yet. There were probably priorities in other parts of the state. And it's really unserious to claim that the highway isn't built because someone, there, doesn't. Compensation is laid down by law, but it is clear what is the procedure for projects of state interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9852	The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, and let Jovan Nesovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to discuss the proposed laws on the confirmation of the agreement, given that it is an integral part of the argument, I will very briefly comment on the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and the publication of the next day. It has already become a practice in this National Assembly, that laws enter the procedure by emergency procedure. The exception is to follow the regular procedure instead of the other way around. See that the law was passed on October 4th, the deadline was until October 15th, then until November 1st, so they were scaring us here if we didn't do it by November 1st, evil and wrong, etc. However, deadlines, dynamics, and the work of the Assembly have proved to be of interest to the ruling majority. If they have interest, the Assembly will work, and if it does not, it will block and will not work, so that Serbian citizens should have that in mind. The SPS considers that there are more urgent laws to discuss than these. Yesterday, he suggested, unfortunately, the ruling majority did not put it on the agenda, that it is a much more urgent issue to consider amending the Pension Insurance Act, a provision on the protection of pensioners when pensions fall below 60%, that the safeguard provision be extended, that there be no limited fact and that it does not stop in 2008, because it protects the millions of people in extremely difficult conditions. It also proposed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the abolition of VAT on baby equipment, and it is not urgent. It is something that at least in public creates the impression that everyone agrees, but we cannot do that, these are far more important and urgent issues, as the status of a huge number of Serbian citizens in a million population of socially endangered people is at stake. If we add tens of thousands to this million population of socially endangered people, thousands of people who will return to this readmission agreement, apparently Serbia will find itself in a difficult situation. When it comes to these two agreements, it should be said, and I think the minister must come out and that, for this speaker, Serbian citizens to answer several very clear questions, in order for Serbian citizens to understand what they really are, what agreements they are, what we are talking about here, what we bring. There's an agreement here that speaks of visa relief. It will allow one number per list, by categories with a slightly easier procedure, along with the same money, for Serbian citizens to be able to go to Europe more easily since 1 January 2008. This second agreement, the Readmission Agreement, will again, since 1 January 2008, allow a huge wave of return from Europe to Serbia, and Serbian citizens deserve it, and we believe that the minister here today has to answer five questions in order to even discuss the readmission. Firstly, the readmission agreement with the European Community is talking about organised return, what it says is reciprocally not to consider, because this has nothing to do with reciprocity, this is about returning Serbian citizens from Europe, expelled Serbian citizens. It's something that the state has to deal with and that's what it means. The second question, Mr. Minister, did the Agreement have to include citizens, i.e. persons from third countries, persons who walked through Serbia and went there, etc.? This is about a situation where they come back and accept, citizens who don't meet or don't meet the conditions anymore. What does "or no longer meet the conditions" mean? Is this a category of citizens who at one point had conditions of staying in Europe, or was it perhaps a political response to Europe to present Serbia in such a light, and now they no longer meet? The third question, Mr. Minister, is that the state, we would have to tell the citizens of Serbia clearly -- we have the Service for Human and Minority Rights, we have the Office for Reading, how many people do we have to go back to Serbia? That's the key question. Optimists say 60,000, pessimists 150,000, and until the state comes out with an estimate, of course, everyone will bid. Another question about this, a very important issue – the dynamics of return. We've been listening to the media these days that since New Year's Eve, there's been a wave of return. I'll believe what you say, Mr. Minister, whether it's true or not, I don't suppose everyone's going to come back at some point because it's a process. The next question here in the light of the law states that no financial resources are needed, no financial resources are needed for this return technology itself, but, please, given that people are returning to a difficult material situation, what the state intends to do with them, what it will do to integrate them into Serbia. In order to get social assistance, they can get like everyone else, but they have to have personal documents, to get personal documents, they have to have a place to stay, and they don't have any of that. So, does the state have a plan to deal with this problem and how will it solve the problems of those tens of thousands of socially endangered people? I am finishing with the question, please, to interpret Article 21 which says this agreement will apply to Serbia's territory, and says "The scope of territorial application regarding Serbia will be defined in negotiations without touching UN Security Council Resolution 1244". Please, does this require for sure that you give us an answer on what this is about, what negotiations, what is going on with people who have left Kosovo, where they come back, how, in what way, etc? So, one agreement, one law, lots of questions. If you do not give concrete and clear answers to the citizens of Serbia, to understand them, there will be after that – we are chasing into Europe, and we do not know how much it costs us. I have no doubt that you have answers to all questions and will give them to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9854	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, and before him, Željko Vassiljevic appeared under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, about ten days ago, so it's not a question for Mr. Minister, so I really...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9856	What member, Mr Vasilevich?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9857	Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Ten days ago, I came to you with information and a request to help people from the "Club of Generals and Admirals of the Army of Serbia" to avoid being thrown illegally out of the premises in the House of the Army, otherwise known as the "Soldiers Club". Unfortunately, although I asked you to inform the Minister of Sutanovac, you did not seem to have done this, you did not take my question seriously and my initiative and it went beyond that. So, on October 31st of this year, in the afternoon, when in the rooms, number 188, 191 and 133 on the first floor of the House, which the General and Admiral Club used, there were none of the members of the Club, using the spare key entered the unknown face, using the reserve keys from the register and tables the total archive "Club", stamp, press and inventory, ownership of "Club" and taken away, for now, to an unknown place etc. I really don't think it's appropriate for one organisation with 225 members, all of which are generals and admirals, who, in retirement, are primarily misrepresented by the Ministry of Defense, who are unauthorizedly using this building as their own; otherwise, it's a task. Also, I asked you to inform the Minister of Culture in whose jurisdiction the duties and legislation are, to intervene that this situation would not escalate. Unfortunately, this has not been done and the situation has escalated, so they held a press conference yesterday, stating several devastating facts. So, I just wanted to tell you that they've brought a few very important facts here that make them think this is happening against them, which is that they've brought out the illegal operation of the General Staff, the Ministry of Defense and the lower authorities in the organization of the army. They also gave several completely devastating facts about the number of Serbian military members compared to some surrounding countries, so I would only point out that Greece and Bulgaria, similar to the population, have 170,000 and 50,000, respectively. I hope that this out of the rooms that happened has no background – that these people are silenced and that they do not talk any further about the problems that are happening in Serbia's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9858	The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9859	Just answer the question of the predecessor. First question - did we have to sign this agreement? He was tied to the visa relief agreement and was thus conditioned. I understand what kind of people are coming back? These are those who have stopped either a visa or some residence permit, or who are on the territory of the European Community countries illegally, or a third person who will only prove that the Republic of Serbia is guilty because they have come to the territory of some of the countries. It is one of the protective instruments, the process of proof itself, and it will not be so easy for all third parties to return to Serbia. The question that interests everyone, how many people will be returned? Of course, that number can never be determined exactly, but we have one cut in 2003, 18 thousand people are returned, and about 47,000 people are supposed to come back, and that's the most in Germany of which is about 25 thousand, in the Netherlands 12 thousand, Belgium three thousand, Switzerland three thousand, Luxembourg three thousand. As for Article 21, it is necessary to read this footnote where it is said that – "The scope of territorial application regarding Serbia will be defined in negotiations without touching Resolution 1244 of the Security Council". So UNMIK will conduct a certain procedure in the territory where now the Republic of Serbia cannot implement it. Furthermore, what are the forms of helping the returnees? I must say that this is also foreseen and that the Service for Human and Minority Rights of the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides assistance to returnees. He has a whole plan based on the Readmission Agreement, and he's following this population of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the position of a possible threat to their human rights, so we haven't gotten a green light from them, if this were possible and feasible, we certainly wouldn't have signed this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9860	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Nesovic, and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9861	I would like to give several important facts, which is why the G17 Group of MPs will support the law, i.e. the agreement on visa relief for Serbian citizens travelling to the EU, or the European Community, signed on 18 October 2007, and I hope that it will start to apply in January 2008. What is, in the beginning, very important to me, to say what is being achieved by this agreement? It is achieved to facilitate the procedure for issuing visas for our citizens, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia by EU member states and the European Community, where Schengen law is applied for the stay of our citizens in those countries. It's important to note what reliefs are given here. The first thing, which is important, is to reduce the number of documents our citizens will file to obtain these visas. We know it took four or five documents, and sometimes more, and now one or two documents are enough. The first document that you belong to a particular group to which the visa relief applies and the second document is where you travel, or work you need to do. The second thing, it's a relief, is the time to issue a visa. It's scheduled for 10 days, and Mr. Minister said yesterday that that time could be shorter, somewhere, three days, and if in some way a supplemental check is made, then that time can't be longer than 30 days, which I think is very important for our citizens right now. The third thing about relief is that the time of our people's stay in those countries is extended, so it can be 180 days, and that 90 days can stay uninterrupted in these countries, which I think is very important, and on the other hand, there is a possibility that if there are no violations, it can be extended, which I think is also important to find. The fourth thing, which is very important, is that the price for visas does not change, remains 35 euros, and on the other hand, special groups of people, these are children and pensioners, are freed from paying this fee, which I think is very important for this group of people right now. What else is being achieved by this agreement? Direct contact between people is being reached, and this will lead to the development of economic, cultural, humanitarian, scientific and other links. This agreement is the first step towards the most important thing we expect, that is, for our citizens to get the possibility of a visa-free regime, that they can travel across EU countries without visas. The other thing that is very important is who does this agreement apply to? This agreement applies to business people, to our businessmen, to lawyers, doctors, scientific workers, artists, athletes, students and students. It is very important that it applies to our businessmen as well. We have one problem in the state, and it's an external trade deficit and it's really expressed this year, as it was both past and before and years ago. I think it is very important that our businesses in one easier way can establish economic ties with businesses from other countries, especially from EU countries, because it is a large market, which means that our products can go to that market. In order for our product to go to that market, we need to have a quality and good product, and that means we have to have good technology. The next thing we know is that our businessmen can establish links with businessmen in those regions. In this way, by shortening and facilitating visa procedures, it will be much easier for businesses to go and make contact, which means that it expands their market, so that they can visit certain fairs and that they can get acquainted with new technology, which is very important for their production, and all of it, to produce a good and quality product. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is also very important for our scientific workers, students and students, because the state of Serbia needs knowledge and it seems to me that in this way facilitating procedures, therefore going to EU countries, it is much easier to attend seminars, various symposiums, on professional training to be present, and all this is a way to achieve new knowledge that needs to be implemented here in Serbia. It seems very important to me, too, that it is covered by this agreement, an additional group, targeted, which is people and citizens who need treatment, people who want to travel to certain EU countries. What is the main objective of this agreement? The main objective of this agreement is to show the EU's will to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thought to be Western Balkan countries, that faster EU integration is taking place. By applying this agreement on 1 January 2008, it will facilitate the movement of people and strengthening the integration processes of our country and the EU, and this is one of the important steps towards joining our country's EU. Since the agreement is a condition for the next two agreements, which is the Law on Reading and Bilateral Co-operation between Serbia and France in the field of readmission, the G17 Group will also support these other two agreements. My expectation is that all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia support these three agreements, which are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9862	The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov, then Milica Radovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9863	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs, the Honorable Presidency, as you have already heard from Mr Varga, LSV and the Vojvodjanski MEPs will not support the text of the bill, of course we are aware that this is a commitment that the Republic of Serbia must take on itself in order to European integration, I think that one of the basic features of LSV is that it is uncompromising for European integration. However, our problem with the text of this proposal lies on page 49. It is three and a half lines that are controversial, and since the state has put so much importance into it, I can also read all: "Contracting parties recognise the necessity of effective, effective and sustainable socio-economic reintegration of returnees – Serbian citizens. They confirm their intention to make greater efforts, including financial efforts, to support such reintegration, taking into account the financial support of the Community in the process." This, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jocic, doesn't mean anything. A serious strategic document dealing with this issue had to be adopted before this agreement. It could be a strategy for reintegration of these faces or at least a migration policy strategy or anything else. If our government is unable to figure it out on its own, it could look at how similar the problem has been solved by countries in an environment which, as well as the Republic of Serbia, have had an obligation to read the mission to accept persons who are their citizens and who are illegally staying in EU countries. The document that had to be adopted should also define a step towards reintegration and the necessary creation of conditions for return. These conditions are the possibility of obtaining basic documents, resolving accommodation issues, assets, health care, social protection, creating employment opportunities, education and providing access to other rights. It's all a readmission, and for you it seems like a readmission just to sign something. This assembly, of course, as well as the ruling majority, will not take into account what they vote for, vote. This is where the story ends for you, and what it says is how much you will care for the citizens who will come to the Republic of Serbia. I'm afraid it's just as much as you care about the citizens who are currently living in the Republic of Serbia, which is really embarrassing. The further problem the LSV has with this proposal is UNHCR recommendations, a March 2005 document and the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly of November 2003, which explicitly emphasises the views that returnees and members of minorities from Kosovo and Metohija should not return to other parts of Serbia, at the time when those resolution decisions were made, then Serbia-Montenegro. Furthermore, who will deal with the reintegration of those returnees now that there is no ministry of human and minority rights. Again, you show how important this issue is to you, otherwise perhaps you would have voted in favour of an LSV proposal when the government was elected to make such a ministry, again and again, showing the need for such a ministry. Now let's look at what's all the reading and what the government forgets. So, the readmission is to improve co-operation and exchange of experiences with all countries in the region regarding returnees' integration issues. The readmission is to establish co-operation between different state institutions and local self-government to coordinate different aid programmes. The readmission is the development of a structural programme to support international institutions, taking into account the involvement of the local vulnerable population in these projects. Readmission is to provide better information for all institutions in international standards, in the field of readmission. Readmission is to form a database on the number and structure of returnees by municipalities. The readmission is to strengthen the country's coordination role in the process of integration of returnees. The readmission is to take the information and education measures of staff at local community level in order to improve the integration of returnees. The readmission is to ensure that integration measures do not create equality between returnees and locals. Readmission is adapting information campaigns to the real needs of returnees, taking into account the cultural and language barriers they are apparently facing. Readmission is informing the public in the readmission of the problems of the returnees. The readmission is to identify the vulnerable group among the returnees. Readmission is to establish a simplified procedure for issuing documents. I'm sorry, you're reading the paper instead of listening to the MP's proposals. Can you listen, please? Readmission is a strategy for housing and legal solutions on social housing and the readmission is predicting the resolution of housing problems of the same returnees. This is further coordination between competent authorities in addressing long-term housing needs and the most vulnerable groups among returnees. Readmission is providing additional funds to municipalities to provide Roma housing. Readmission is informing returnees about the possibility of using free legal aid in relation to property issues. Readmission is a court education. The readmission is to conduct research on the situation of returnees, to find out the number of returnees living in poverty. The readmission is to allow the regime for the transfer of health records of returnees from abroad. The readmission is to ensure that the readmission process is carried out with full respect for basic human rights and, ultimately, the readmission is to enable and learn Serbian language before starting or continuing further education. The government believes that all these tasks do not require financial resources. This clearly shows that the government has absolutely no intention of carrying out this contract that this congregation is to confirm. It has no intention of reintegration of these persons, and the ruling majority who voted against the law, or anti-discrimination law, also says in addition to that, so that you intend to discriminate against the citizens of this country on the basis of their differences, and I think you would also support the anti-discrimination law and everything else. The LSV cannot support such a law until the Government has made serious access to its implementation and until it has adopted a document that will be thoroughly and strategically involved in the reintegration of these persons, until it shows and provides funds for their reintegration and until it has seriously approached this really important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9864	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, and then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9865	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, at the beginning of my presentation, I must express my satisfaction that we are still in a position to discuss these extremely important proposals of the so-called law. A white Schengen package. I hope, and I believe, that all MPs of this Parliament will make the necessary effort to adopt these laws and proposals by 8 November this year, because that date is held a session of the EU Council of Ministers which is due to issue a formal confirmation act on a visa waiver agreement with Serbia. It is also important to point out that an agreement on visa relief was adopted on 24 October at the European Parliament's plenary on an urgent procedure, in a procedure that does not require ratification by all other Member States. It is important that we adopt these laws by 8 November of this year and thus show how much we care about making it easier for our citizens to travel to the EU and for a fairly facilitated procedure to get visas. As the minister said, this is one step towards Serbia's final entry into the white Schengen list, and I think it is necessary for all MPs to keep this in mind. As far as the bill is concerned, it concerns only the duration of the visa, which means that from now on, that is, the moment this agreement takes effect, and I hope that it will be issued at the beginning of next year, with a longer period of time. It won't be necessary to bear such a large number of papers when we apply for the visa itself, but this procedure will also be simplified as well. What's important, what's easier, is keeping the price for a 35-euro visa fee. The relief includes business people, lawyers, doctors, students, students, scientists, athletes, citizens who go abroad for treatment, citizens who go to tourist or family visits. Visa relief also represents a path towards faster integration of Western Balkan countries into the EU. The readmission agreement, which is the second item of the agenda, is a unique instrument or new EU instrument that controls migration movements in its territory. The majority of international emigration, only 65 million, is now on Europe's soil. In Ireland now, 10% of the population is born outside Ireland's borders. In Spain, the number is 11% today. Since 2004, 600,000 immigrants have emigrants moved to the UK, and this represents one of the migration waves ever recorded in the history of Great Britain. According to UN data, in developing countries, the rate of natural growth is six times higher than the natural population rate in developed countries. Thus, it is understood that this creates a huge wave of migrants waiting for a moment to move into rich countries. That is why I am saying this about the position of Europe on the Readmission Agreement and how important it is to regulate migration movements on its soil. New immigrants contribute to the development of one country's economy. This best shows the case of America, where 90% of immigrants are employed in the agricultural sector. Just to remind you that America is one of the few countries that is not import-oriented when, for example, food production is concerned. Of course, on the other hand, the inflow of immigrants is causing some negative consequences. The domestic or local population is expressing a legitimate concern that their jobs will be threatened in this way, and it is known that immigrants bring with them certain crime, and therefore uncertainty. In the case of the Western Balkan states, the signing of the Readmission Agreement is closely linked to the signing of the Visa Facilitation Agreement. It's about one reciprocal agreement, when it comes to the Readmission Agreement. We have an obligation, as a state, to accept and receive all our citizens who are illegally staying in EU territory or whose basis for staying in the EU has ceased, as well as third-country nationals, or persons without citizenship who have come from Serbia's territory on EU soil. Since 1998, Serbia has signed a readmission agreement with 15 European countries. According to some information I have found, about 18,000 returnees have been returned to Serbia so far, and their number is expected to be around 50,000 to 100,000. True, it is a large number, but the state has already shown by this law itself and the government's intention to provide all legal, psychosocial, informative and economic assistance for the reintegration of returnees into society itself. Since March 2003, EU countries have submitted 23,887 requests to return illegally staying Serbian citizens to our country. During 2006, 1,884 of our citizens were deported from Germany, while 3,282 were being led as political asylum seekers. Among them, of course, the highest Roma -- 43%, Albanians -- is 37%, and Serbs are only 2.5%. So far, the practice of applying bilateral readmission agreements signed by Serbia with other countries has shown that it is necessary to provide material and technical conditions for the reintegration of returnees into society. That is why, on the proposal of our side, when signing this agreement, it has been insisted that, in addition to the Readmission Agreement, a new joint statement, which obliges or expresses the intention of the EU, stand precisely in the statement given to help economically reintegrate returnees into society. The conclusion of this agreement is an important precondition for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, and thus for Serbia's faster integration into the EU. That is why it is necessary to vote in favour of these laws, not only to vote, but to bear in mind that November 8th is the date when these laws should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9866	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralić, then Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9867	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPS and MPs in this house will vote for one of these three laws, which is the one that applies to visa relief, but will not vote for these others. Let me explain why. I would like to remind you that in 2005 a joint session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee and the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia was held in this house. The chairman was Mr. Prorokovic, who was then chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and is now Secretary of State for Kosovo and Metohija. The meeting was attended by people from the Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Dabetic and a large number of MPs. Then it's open there, among other things, this topic. That's what Mr. Milisav Petronijevic wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister, and it refers to Article 21. What exactly does the readmission mean in relation to the faces that are now under the auspices of Resolution 1244? Will these persons be returned to Kosovo and Metohija or, as the Committee's 2005 session indicated, that both Serbs and Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija will, in this process, return to the territory of Serbia, which we today unfortunately call Serbia, and Serbia is both Kosovo and Metohija and everything else within the borders of the Republic of Serbia? It is a very important issue, because it is then concerned that, by nature, Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija should settle in municipalities of so-called. Presevo valleys and that they will thus be more easily re-orientated and easier to fit in. I'm asking very precisely, I didn't say that these two committees had concluded it, but I've already said what was the subject on this board, take the stenograms, I remember that session well, it lasted a very long time. Afterwards, Mrs Miscevic of the Serbian EU Association Office had some concerns in this regard as I speak today. So I'm looking for a precise answer with that in mind. Otherwise, let me say, who are, in fact, the faces that are now the subject of the reading. These are persons who are practically economic emigration from Serbia. Some of them left Serbia for these or those reasons, some illegally left Serbia, some went illegally across Serbia to other countries, some sought political asylum and received it. Those who have political asylum in one country are not persons who are illegally staying in that country and I hope that those persons will not be subject to readmission or, when asylum expires, I do not know how these things are regulated under the law. So that's a very important question for us. These others have managed. I don't have the trouble here to say that, unfortunately, people from the most difficult social mile, that it's mostly persons without qualifications, that those persons who are there in formal and informal marriages have increased their family, that the state today has a responsibility, in the sense that they are its citizens, to integrate them here. I want to say that EU countries, which are the biggest culprits for economic differences in the region, producing poverty in Serbia, economic sanctions and blockade, directly contributed to this process going there, and today, with interest, this process is going here. So, more of these people, who are completely economic, social, disoriented, who are absolutely unable to fight for their own position and that is the pill that Serbia has to swallow, because it simply is. We here have certain barriers to dynamics, as regards the number of people, in terms of those who have achieved this right across our country, and we cannot control, say, how many Albanians from Albania, using Serbia's territory at the time, have left our country, whether they will now be returned to Serbia or Albania, etc. These are very large numbers, there are also faces in that group, which are unfortunately the subject of human trafficking. I hope we'll be careful about that tomorrow. So that's the reasons why they're handling us so we can't vote. And, Mr. Minister, please explain this to you regarding Article 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9868	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Gordana Komic, and then Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9869	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, who rarely reflect the depth of our stereotypes, our prejudices and our ignorance of the subject at the heart of both agreements, which are human rights. Both agreements essentially regulate the human right to free movement and our human civil rights to the existence of a state that protects us, which we finance, and if we don't finance it, it's enough that we are its citizens. European integration, therefore, is a key part of European integration as a process, and it is, discussions on such topics, often much more than technical agreements, market progress, public finance, the fight against corruption, in everything that needs to be a healthy, fine, decent state, which serves all of us as its citizens and citizens. Where we get stereotypes and prejudices and where we get ignorance when it comes to human rights. From insufficient information on what human rights are and from insufficient examples, that human rights are a good mechanism for all of us, whether in trouble or not, and especially that it is important to defend our civil human rights to a country that will respect us. The first agreement, which is covered by the Visa Facilitation Agreement, in its specifics, is completely independent of whether we have a deadline and we have it, because on November 8th European Parliamentarians will vote for ratification of this agreement, so that our citizens and citizens can, as of January 1st, use the capacity of the ratified Visa Facilitation Agreement, so the first thing is, what is the human rights corpus in that agreement? I don't want to sit in front of embassies with endlessly many papers and being returned four times, and I just want to go see the godmother in Dresden. That's what this agreement is about. It's about our country's responsibility to know that bad estimates, however, are completely irrelevant, our citizens are being brought into a situation that they can't move freely, no matter how surprised you are, are just visiting a godmother in Dresden, whoever has a godfather in Dresden. Dresden is a beautiful city and it would be good if a lot of us could travel there in a simple way. People's MPs ask, do they pass the law because of the godfather? Yeah. Because of the people, the law is passed, and I will return to it as a comment on everything we have heard from the opponents of the Readmission Agreement. Then there will only be dissatisfaction with all those we do not understand, for lack of knowledge. Therefore, visa waivers mean that our obligation to have a visa in the passport is reduced to one or two documents, with the obligation of the embassies of the Schengen Agreement countries and on the basis of the obligations of countries which are not in the Schengen agreement, such as Ireland, Great Britain, Denmark, Norway, to issue a permit to our citizens and citizens within ten days on the basis of one paper, or a visa at the price of 35 euros, unlike others in a similar regime, such as Russia, which pay 70 euros for the visa. So it's about someone thinking, if we're already in a position to ask for and get visas, then my country does something to make this process easier for each of us. Not to talk about our country's obligations and the difficulties that our citizens living in the European Union, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Russia, wherever you want, who have problems with our diplomatic and consular representatives, who have problems with the functioning of our country in communication with them in relation to their demands, whether it's getting a new passport or an extension, whatever it is. So when it comes to visa relief, it's a deal that has nothing to do with the white Schengen list. So this agreement means what the European Union has in its European Partnership or European Neighbourhood plan, where it deals with countries on a special visa regime, easier or less strict than the one we are used to, waiting in line for visas. The categorization of persons who need to get visas in a easier way is within the law and there is a great shortage that I don't see there will be real information campaigns for people in Serbia to really see, so whether I'm in that list or not. What my country will do if I want to travel somewhere, and I'm not on that list. So, if it's an individual trip, if it's not a tourist trip that I need just one information for, too. Is something changing for us parents whose kids are going on a field trip? Whoever sent the kids on a trip abroad knows what amount of paper it takes, how much the father's income, what the mother's income is, from giving you permission to stay a underage child, if he's a underage child, not to order further. So it takes an information campaign for people in Serbia to know what human rights they have under this visa relief law. The second agreement, which we want to remove with this debate stereotypes, prejudice and ignorance, is a readmission agreement. It is again about our citizens and citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are staying illegally and illegally in the territory of the European Union. The reasons why they brought them to stay illegally, illegally, in the territory of any of the countries with which we have signed bilateral agreements, these 17, or after this agreement that will apply to all, therefore, these reasons are not the human rights Corps that they have in their country, they are our citizens. The readmission agreement with the European Union implies solving the problem, as a previous question, if you want to enter the process of gaining rights on the white Schengen list. Each of the states says - we think we have some of your citizens, who are staying here illegally. Has the residence permit expired or never had or had it? Doesn't he have a work permit? Whatever he doesn't have, he's probably staying illegally on the territory of a state. In order to solve the problem of people who are in such status, on the territory of any of the European countries, we must have a signed readmission agreement. We must, in partnership with the European Union, state what your obligations are, when it comes to our citizens who are illegally staying with you, what our obligations are and how we can ratify common obligations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the European Parliament on 8 November. It's just an amazing attitude that we don't need these people, and it's better if they don't come here, because we're not ready to accept them. That, how can I say, when you say it twice, is one conclusion: or that the state of Serbia only loves to declare itself to talk about the protection of its citizens and their human and civil rights, or there are things that will not make it clear, so they are being translated into attitudes – we do not need these citizens to agree on a readmission. It is particularly problematic that from third countries, so the process to prove that the person with the knowledge, with the authority, the state of Serbia from its territory, entered the other country and resided illegally. The process of proof is complicated and is complicated for any country with which a bilateral agreement is signed. So both the Visa Facilitation Agreement and the Readmission Agreement are essentially texts on human rights, rights to freedom of movement, the right to have a country that can take care of us, visible and sensitive. A few concepts were often confused here. One of them is the European Community and the European Union. The European Community is a legal entity, the EU will only be a legal entity on 13 December 2007, if and when the Lisbon Reform Treaty is adopted on 18 October at an informal meeting, signed, and agreed on by all member states. It would be good if that reform contract... Here, the MPs are eager to know that it's because the French refused the Constitution, and now the French are cheating. And around the French, there was one confusion. People's MPs say I need a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9870	Please, let's listen to Mrs. Comic for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9871	They say, do I remember making warnings as chairman. Very little warning and every one with a good reason. So there were two topics, very serious. One is, what is a legal entity: the European Community or the European Union? The second topic is the status of France and the fact that France has a delegation. Under the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, it cannot have committees for European integration, because it would be beyond their constitution. What is right, MPs are getting, that everyone within the EU is using what suits them. Nothing less and nothing more should Serbia do. The theme of readmission and visa relief is also the subject of European integration, as European integration has two key lines. The first line is political integration, the second line is technical integration, pre-checked ways of doing public work in your local environments or in your country to make people better. So the technical part about European integration is, for example, Vrbas municipality, which entered in 2000 with nine million budgets. In four years, it has reached 40 million budgets, now over a billion dinars in the budget. It doesn't matter if the people who run Vrbasom are from this, one, the other, the third or the fourth political parties. It is important that applying prescriptions managed in the EU is a real benefit for its local community. That's the answer to the question. Each of European integration takes what it needs. It's nice to meet you. I'm only setting a Vrbas example of what will take everything he needs for all these seven years. And whoever is in the Vrbas elections should continue to deal in such a way with the recipes of European integration. What is the political theme of European integration here so far has not been mentioned, and that is the political will to sign with the state of Serbia and the Visa Facilitation Agreement and the Readmission Agreement at this time and at this stage of European integration. And that's what the work, energy and political will of people from all political parties is involved in. It is the best of European integration. All that we do, what we start to do, there's someone to go on, whatever the party was from, because there's a human being on the cover of all the work, who has its human and civil rights, which we all have to worry about in public affairs, how pleased it is with the fulfillment and application of these human rights and the eager criticisms of all of them so that applying human rights to movement and human rights to decent life and all other civil rights and freedoms are truly visible in the everyday lives of each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9872	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Rules of Procedure. We've got a few phone calls from the Rules of Procedure. The first is MP Nemanja Sarovic, Rajko Baralic, and Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the injured Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, was by the chairman who was obliged to respond to this kind of exposure and demeaning of MPs by Mrs. Comic. It is extremely inappropriate for her to teach other MPs anything and to say that they are ignorant, that they are eager to know, that certain things do not understand. All of us, Mrs. Komic, were elected by the people, all of us by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are who we are, and it is not right for you to teach anyone any lessons. As for your presentation, I must admit that I listened very carefully to him, but that after so much talk, there are not two sentences I could repeat. You've talked so much, but in the end you didn't say anything, how well she noticed Mrs. Radet, as you speak, you'd think that what you're talking about was really important. You've been talking about some kind of partnership with EU countries. I don't know how long we've been partners and with which EU country we're partners. I know that many have set conditions for us, that we have met and fulfilled for years one condition at a time, so when we meet one, they set us up another two new ones, and I don't know, I couldn't remember any of the conditions that we set and said – Europe has to meet it, so we agree to not knowing what. So, this story of yours about partnership with anyone is completely pointless. You were never partners for one moment, you were always just fulfilling the orders you received from those from the West who for that reason, to fulfill these tasks, and to bring and bring you to power. Another thing, you say -- this law is passed because of citizens. As far as I know, and I'm a lawyer, every law is passed for citizens, and this law will bring real and objective benefits to a very small number of citizens. It is official that something below 11 per cent of Serbian citizens own a passport, each tenth. Of those 10 or 11 percent who own a passport, maybe once again every tenth really has a chance to travel once a year anywhere. You've been promising these visa reliefs since 2000. That was before that famous election, one of the main promises. Instead of coming to the White Schengen List and facilitating the visa regime, the facts say that the exact opposite happened. Now we have to ask for visas and for all those countries that we were able to travel freely, without visas, to travel. The situation is incomparably worse today. Boris Tadic was in front of the embassy before he became President of the Republic, and we haven't seen him, although these lines are even longer today, so that now he visits these people, let him go tell them what he did. So don't deceive Serbian citizens anymore, this will not bring any improvement to most Serbian citizens, and we will see this in a few days. So what you represent as though I don't know what capital work, as something that will greatly change the lives of Serbian citizens, will pass 10 days, 15 days, 20 days, and Serbian citizens will see that they will not have any improvement from this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9874	Mr. Sarovic, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Rajko Barlaic, according to the Business, then Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9875	Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, I have come forward on the basis of Rule 101 of Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, I listened carefully to the afternoon debate and the opening presentation and authorized representatives, and I remind you, Mrs. Comic, that one of the authorised representatives who spoke on behalf of a minority people this morning, here, said that he was against this, because those he represents against the readmission. It's also their human right. Mr. Shane talked about it. So let you each decide on your right in the way that you understand it best and how you think it brings the greatest profit to it. So if what you call human rights applies to them, they will be deported here without any rights. Everything that's there, in any way, will cease to exist, will come here and get nothing. I'm very precise. Now I'm talking about choosing these people, whether he will or not. If this country signs this agreement today, if it verifies it, it has no choice. Secondly, Mrs. Comic, there was born into informal and formal marriages by thousands of children. I remind you that every parent has the right to declare whether his child will be able to leave the territory of a country, so when two parents have a different opinion on it, the court is declared, and when we do, if we adopt this law today, they will be extradited here as pears. That's what I'm talking about. Let us let them judge for themselves what is best for them. The third question, and I don't want to make any more noises with you, although I have to admit, I'm always comfortable with you guys. So it's not about someone putting out a different political attitude, it should immediately mean that they don't understand minority and human rights. It's not like that at all. So here's the question of how we see solving this problem. Do we have a right, now I'm going to be very direct, that for 15 thousand Roma in Western Europe, we will determine this solution when they themselves will not make this solution? They think they'd better be there. That is what their official representative in this House is saying. Take the stenograms, I'm trying to listen to each and every one of you carefully. This is true and I want to say that this country is not ready to receive them, unfortunately, it is sad, its citizens who are now there, to provide them with a minimum of existence here, which means housing, teaching in their native language, that they can do something, that children can learn their language, etc. That's a big problem. It's just that I'm plowing, and not in any way with your attitude that there's someone here for or against human rights, on the contrary, taking into account everything that's been said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9876	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226, and I'd like to say something about previous presentations and the law on reading. I think that in some ways, it is avoided that this problem is considered essentially the most important part. The fact that it's our citizens, that it's our country's obligation to accept them, there's no dilemma. Whether it's hard or not, we have to put that aside. We simply have to accept these citizens. What's being asked here as a question? Let's see what our country can do to ensure that when we accept these citizens, life in this country will continue to be a worthy man's life. Let's see how many of our citizens have gone to the 1990s, how many from '90 to '92 and how many from 1992 and then see who's all contributed to getting so many citizens out of our country. We didn't have that problem until 1992. We had a passport with which we could go anywhere, to any country in the world and not ask that question. But it is hypocritical, it is inappropriate to say that we need to pass this law in order to reduce a number of our citizens' fees, or pay to reduce their visa fees, so that they can visit godfathers, etc. It's extremely hypocritical. What will we do with our citizens, not just citizens, but those who escaped, expelled from Croatia, how will they visit their godmothers, how will they even visit their house? What's the basic problem here? That our country is asking those countries in Western Europe who are responsible for what has been happening in Serbia, which is why a large number of those who have left, not only for political reasons, but, above all, went for economic reasons, to provide them with conditions to continue living here normally; countries in Western Europe are engaged that those who have come there, through the belly after bread, return to their countries, but should be helped to create jobs or additional lending so that they can go to certain jobs themselves, etc. That's where our country should have done everything in its power to make it possible for people who come to live normally. What about the families that will be divided? What are you going to do in that case? What will you do when the father or mother is a citizen of the state they live in? By the logic of things, what is the practice? The children will belong to most of them. You will separate violent families. You had a long time ago, there was an article in the paper about an Albanian family, a tragedy. What are you going to do with cases like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9878	Mr. Todorovic, please, let's finish the presentation. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Comic, then Zlatan Jovanovic, Riza Halimi, Nemanja Sarovic, and Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9879	I make a request for wording in the Rules of Procedure on the basis of incorrect interpretation. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you, I don't know a member right now, if my colleagues from the SRS are going to help me... (Verica Radeta, from Place: Article 101) I'm reporting under Article 101. Here, Mrs. Verica Radeta, thank you. It's not at all the subject of what I said about a pay phone, anyone by political identity or the identity of a political group. We can look at the stenogram together and see in the stenogram that I said that the debate on such laws, which treat the problems of human and civil rights, reveals all the depth of the stereotype, prejudice and knowledge that are in us. When I have the intention, and I don't believe ever, that any of us, 250, will express disqualification, not criticism or a description of what I think our situation is in the Assembly, you can be sure that I will no longer be involved in representing the policy I believe in and representing the ideas I believe in in this assembly. Once again, any debate on civil and human rights and freedoms will always reveal the depth of stereotypes, prejudice and ignorance within us. When I was talking about our country being bound by citizens and citizens who are staying illegally, illegally, I said it with full awareness that they don't want to come here. I didn't want to bother you with a list of cases where citizens and citizens living in Europe, family or not, also avoid bilateral readings because they don't want to come to Serbia. This is no reason for us as a National Assembly, as a state, not to take responsibility for them, for their human rights and for what their daily life should be when they come to Serbia under the Readmission Agreement. The fact is that in the debate here, another problem that Serbia has, refugees and displaced persons, and as much as I find it difficult to say, but when it comes to our countrymen from Croatia, Bosnia, Republika Srpska and the Republic... It is interesting that MPs who insist on making a warning of failure to respect the Rules of Procedure commit a violation by wanting me to say the Republika Srpska Krajina. And it's no problem, because it's not a territory, it's people I know of a good number of people, I can't stop because these people here and about these people, Serbia is taking care of the same thing as other evasive and displaced people, but that's not the theme of the Readmission Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9880	The word is made by the MP Zlatan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 225. Rules of Procedure regarding Ms. Comic's exposure. Namely, I would ask Mr Albianić to take some time and hold a few math lessons from Mrs. Komic after she entered the field of mathematics in her presentation. In fact, Mrs. Comic said that our citizens today have problems because they have been waiting in line for days for visas with infinitely many papers. Mr. Albianic, explain to Mrs. Comic when the final number remains infinite again. Therefore, Mrs. Komic, it is hypocritical and extremely incorrect to say that today they are waiting with infinitely many papers in line for a visa, and that you will use this agreement to reduce their suffering because you will only take two papers away from that infinite amount of paper. Be correct and say it will be a little better, but don't say it – this is black, but this agreement will bring white. You can't do that! That's what you said. Please explain to the citizens of Serbia why after seven years of your rule still stand in line for visas?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9882	The word is made by the People's Messenger Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9883	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll just take a moment. In his discussion, Mr. Baralic voiced concern that the readmission of Albanians...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9884	What member are you answering for?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9885	Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure – on the story that Albanians from Kosovo will move to the Presevo Valley. It's an unrealistic fear because in practice it's a reverse process, because from the Presevo Valley it's a mass flight. Two and a half decades goes to Kosovo, of course, and to European countries. Compared to 1981, we have 15 thousand fewer Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, not counting natural growth. On the other hand, there are 13,000 citizens staying abroad for over a year on the Presevo census in 2002. How many will be covered by the reading, we do not have that data, but it is the fact that it is the most underdeveloped area, with a degree of development six times lower than the average of the state, even from the average in Kosovo. For these reasons, people go, so there is absolutely unfounded fear that someone will return to Presevo Valley. Young people, because they have no perspective, go either to Kosovo or even go abroad illegally. There really isn't any of the most elemental conditions for the life of young generations that have yet to start a family, to create their own life, right now are the disastrous conditions of life, so there's absolutely no such danger. Readmission will come to undeveloped municipalities, such as Presevo, in a very difficult position, because they do not have the elemental capacity to receive fewer families, let alone some significant percentage of those who have gone to Germany, Switzerland or another European country at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9886	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Riza Halimi, as you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9888	Mr. Sarovic, it is customary to say a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9889	Yes, Mr. Albianic, but I'm not obliged by the Rules of Procedure to say that at first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9890	The Rules of Procedure oblige you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9891	Read which member of the Rules of Procedure which obliges me to state before my presentation on the basis of which member I am going out?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9892	Okay, let's not lead the polemics, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9893	Admit your mistake then, Mr. Albianic, and don't confuse me, in the future don't try. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Halimi, you know very well that there is no such thing as a geographical concept as the Presevo Valley and don't try to force that notion into Serbia's political life. The other thing is, there are no Albanians there either. The Albanians, Mr. Halimi, are in Albania. In Serbia there are Shiparians. If necessary, we'll talk a little bit longer on the subject, but that's what your favorite former writers say, and I will, if necessary, bring a book of some of your ideologists and see how the Shiphars in Kosovo, the Shipari in Serbia, refer to themselves. The fact that you've been trying for the past year or two days to introduce a term of Albanians, compared to history, to the centuries through which you've been called the Shiptari, yourself, doesn't mean anything. As far as these agreements are concerned, unfortunately, Mrs Comic has left the hall, I must say now, extremely openly, that these agreements, which she says, are being made for the citizens and for the people – are true, but not because of the citizens of Serbia, but also because of the interests of the citizens of the European Union. For whom are these agreements favourable? Is the Readmission Agreement favourable to Serbia? Of course not. We'll have huge costs, we'll get hundreds of thousands of new social cases in Serbia. Is that good for Serbia? Are these agreements favourable for the people they refer to, who will be treated, who will come under the influence of this readmission agreement? Of course not. What kind of people are these? Do any of them want to come to Serbia? Of course he doesn't. If they wanted to come to Serbia, they'd be free to pack themselves and come live here. These are people who will be forced, forced, brought to Serbia and will be a sort of concentration camp in which they will have to live. Secondly, are these citizens with valid documents of the Republic of Serbia? Of course not. They don't have our ID cards, they don't have our passports, they have nothing to do with Serbia. Long ago, these relationships they had, if they had any, and there were cases that had nothing to do with Serbia, they had long lost those ties. If they had our documents, if they were people who could be proven to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they would have been deported to Serbia regularly, we would not need a special readmission agreement. That's what's true about this, about these agreements. So don't play. You're playing with the fates of hundreds of thousands of people. You'll make them come to Serbia, and in Serbia you have nothing to offer them; you don't have to offer them accommodation, you can't offer them employment, what will happen to these people? Therefore, there is only one reason, and I believe that you will have as much patience as for Mrs. Komic, she has spoken for more than four minutes, so I am sure you will allow me to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9894	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You've been the longest man in the business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9895	So the only benefit of this is that Boris Tadic will finally be exposed and your delusions that have lasted for seven years, and that you will have nothing to deceive the citizens in the next campaign, so to tell them, here, we will introduce visa reliefs. Here, we'll get you visa breaks, but no benefit from that citizens will get. Then when they see that they've been cheated, it'll come back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9896	Noting that no member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9897	Reporting under Articles 225 and 226. Here, again, I repeat that someone would not take the wrong way, as far as the SRS is concerned, all our citizens, no matter where they are, are our citizens and they have rights, and there is no dilemma there, that they live where they think they'll be best. We will not define whether it will be in this part or that part of Serbia, I do not think we have the right to do so. What the state has to do is provide them with a normal and decent life. We are trying to draw attention to our country that it has not taken care of these people who need to return and who should continue their lives in our country at all. That's the problem we've been facing here all along. Let's think a little logically. The period since 1992-2000, it is eight years or a period in which most of our citizens have gone to various countries of the European Community. I don't want to go that way at all now, so that's some time period, but look, you've come to power, for seven years, almost as long as it took them to get out of this country. You came directly under the patronage of the West, directly. There is no longer any dilemma here, I am telling you, you know these facts, with the claim that this same West will ensure a normal life for the citizens of Serbia, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because, for God's sake, the regime, the dictatorial regime, the non-national regime, etc. You shouldn't have passed this law at all that you succeeded with their help to provide people with a decent life here. There was no law at all necessary for you to pass, they would come here themselves to live, but they won't live here because the conditions are worse than they were when they left. That's the basic reason, and now you want to put them here in a position where they'll literally barely survive. On what terms? Where are you going to bring them? That's the problem. What did you do to protect our country? We have the same problem with some citizens who live in our territory, that they don't have, absolutely, like our citizens in Western Europe documents to stay there, they don't have them here. How many, Shipara, Albanians, have entered Kosovo since 1945, how many have entered in 1999? If the rules apply to us that we must accept our citizens, which is not what you ask Europe to commit itself to accept, in principle, reciprocity, because they now have opportunities, so they can't say – we don't care. They must be interested because they're over there. They must also be interested in bringing all those who are not Serbian citizens back where they came from. Then there's no problem, but we accept only what burdens us. Where we could do something, we're not looking for it. One more thing and I'm done, I'm sorry, so I don't answer again. Here, I'll tell you when it comes to these visas. I don't know what you're gonna do to facilitate visas for Western Europe, and if you're gonna make it. You have, here's the case when it comes to Russia. Not only do you not have to accept anything, but only the first to go into it – to lift visas between Serbia and Russia and they want to accept it. Do you know how many difficulties business people have, our people who live there to extend their visa, that they can function normally? Why don't you show some degree of concern for the interests of both the state and our citizens? No, because it's Russia, because ideologically it doesn't suit you, and here you run to the West, and they just won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9898	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I would ask everyone, indeed, to continue after work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9899	The Socialist Party of Serbia will continue on the agenda, only Article 101(1). Rules of Procedure. Mr. Riza, I didn't tell you that you are Shiptar, others have said, but let me tell you when you introduce yourself to someone, when someone asks you what you are by nationality, you say in Albanian – unam Šitar, you don't say – un pit Albanez. So it's a simple fact, but, well, I leave you the right to translate this "Shiptar" as you wish, so that's not the problem. That's not why I answered. I did not express concern that Albanians who are illegally staying in Western European countries will settle as you said, no, vice versa. It's a reversible political process, and it goes like this. When one national structure is to be decomposed, Albanians from Western Macedonia, Greece, Albania's Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje and elsewhere move to Kosovo and then help have more Albanians there. And when it's supposed to be the other way around, then they're a little detachable to these others to... but it's a project, it's about you legitimately, it's just my right to challenge it. So that's not what I'm talking about. I was talking about the dangers of another species. So, since we know well how it works, that indeed several thousand citizens of Albanian nationality who have never lived in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji are now, with one political premeditation, brought to live there for reasons that I understand, I just don't justify, so otherwise I leave them as well as others the right to choose to settle wherever they want, it would just be fair for everyone to go back where they came from. There was another remark this morning, and that doesn't apply to you, and I think that's what Honorable colleague Shane said, that 90 years ago it was in this country as a state project, that there was this ethnic transfer in Serbia as a state strategy. I have to say that, just to remind or someone else, I apologize Mr. Shane, Mr. Lasslo Varga, I apologize, at which point it happened, in two very delicate moments -- after World War I and after World War II. Where could people live in Lika, Banija, Kordun, Herzegovina, in parts of Montenegro when everything was set on fire? So when they went into battle because they were told – when we won, and we are the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, the poor will get the land, the factories will belong to the workers, and eight hundred thousand fighters expected it as a solution and it happened. Someone didn't like it, but it happened. That's what happened, and it happened that the Germans from Banat were returned to the country of origin, but I remind you, based on international decisions, based on the decisions of the Nuremberg court and based on UN decisions. It's very important to know that it doesn't turn out that we're working here now, so the Serbs in Serbia are getting smaller, the Serbs in Kosovo are getting smaller and you're talking about them... I mean, really, please, these are elemental things and we need to talk to them with precision that doesn't bring confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9900	The word is made by MP Donka Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Halimi, please, you've caused a lot of replicas, it's not right. Everybody calm down! If you call again, then again Nemanja Sarovic, please, everyone calm down! I'm suggesting we're not answering the Rules of Procedure anymore. Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, for your criticism. Let's continue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, too, please don't cause replicas. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have a feeling that we have completely replaced the facts and the thesis. So we're talking about people here like they have some choice. This agreement reads - an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. There are different data, we've heard from the Home Secretary that there are about 47,000 people who are illegally staying. These people either rejected an asylum application, or suspended temporary assistance, which was granted to them when they left the former Yugoslavia's premises. So you can't challenge every country's right to regulate the issue of staying on its territory and that's every country's right. Also, you can't say that Serbia has nothing but a moral obligation to those citizens who are in a state of unrest, and that, in other countries. One more thing, I cannot allow an MP in this assembly to say that Serbia is a concentration camp. Please, we just heard that. I'm sorry, you just said that. Serbia is not a concentration camp. Serbia has an obligation, so it makes an effort to do so planically, just by signing these contracts, to do so, not by forcefully deporting these people, but simply by trying to sort out the problem. So, gradually, and of course Serbia has to prepare to accept these people and what someone said yesterday seems to me that all ministries have to work on what they can do best. Of course, some financial resources should be provided for. So we're not talking about people here as if that's their choice. Of course, after 10 or 12 years, when you start a family somewhere, when you've managed to acquire something, you're reluctant to go back to where you know it's been waiting for you from the beginning. But it's not a choice here, but it's a matter of our choice to be as serious as the country and to be smart and well-prepared for the acceptance of all these people and to help them solve the problems that will meet them here when they get here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9902	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Maras, so Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Halimi, are you staying to report to the Rules of Procedure? If, yes, then you are before Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, this is scandalous, your behavior, and I'm reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104, 101 and 27. So it is completely inappropriate for the chairman of this congregation not to want the word to be given to the MP who reported to the Rules of Procedure and to the messenger who asked for a replica. It is completely inappropriate for the chairman to tell the MPs to return to work, to continue our work. As far as I can see, all the MPs who went out for this assembly pay phone are working and talking about the subject, and you can't take the right to express such qualifications. Secondly, I think this is scandalous, that he didn't want to give a word to Ambassador Riza Halimi. The man answered the Book, and cried out, saying, "A replica, and the chairman of it has passed over all that, and has given the word to him who is walking in order in the matter." Mr. Albianic, you have violated the Rules of Procedure very harshly and harshly, and I demand that the National Assembly declare itself in the day of voting on this. I think this is becoming a habit and it's wrong, because there must be people who will know better how to lead this congregation than you and Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9904	Thank you, Mr. Marash. You misused the Rules of Procedure because you arbitraryly stated the situation. I have here a list of the order of MPs who have reported to the Rules of Procedure. Riza Halimi was behind MP Donka Banovic. I have suggested that the MPs no longer appear by the Rules of Procedure, which is their will, if they want to act on their suggestion, and if they do not, I have no chance of not allowing anyone to answer the word. People's MPs Riza Halimi and Nemanja Sarovic reportedly, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, just give the correct and accurate information to the congregation speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9905	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. Sarovic and Mr. Baralic returned the subject of the name Albanian and Shiptar again. Now let's continue the topic, or what Mr. Baralic started for a little while. The Albanian, both in the Presevo Valley and in Kosovo and Albania, calls himself Shiptar, and on the basis of which we call Albanians in Albania, while in Presevo and Kosovo someone calls us Shiptari. And we call Hungarians Hungarians, although they have the term Hungar, the Greeks have Helens, and all of us, whether they live in Serbia, whether they live in Greece, we call them Greeks, so whether they live in Vojvodina or Hungary, we call them Hungarians. On what basis now Albanians can do it anyway. I don't think this is serious. She's offensive and unserious. In Mr. Sarovic's case, I think the problem is the lack of information, because one day he said, too far, because as long as it's 400 kilometers, things get deformed like a broken phone. Now what? We went out in these elections as a coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. Radicals challenged it at the time of the procedure and it was over. What is this story going on now, will someone say of the Presevo Valley – the cauldron? We chose the Presevo Valley and who now cares about turning the whole story around again from the beginning. The second thing is why radicals have the same initiatives, such as individual parties in power, as in the case when privatisation was to be prevented, when the Albanian was concerned, so it turns out they were radicals in power rather than the opposition. Now again what we heard from Mr. Sarovic, the other day, that it is necessary to integrate Serbs into state structures in Bujanovac, and so say these people from the Coordination Body. Imagine, please, according to all relevant data in Bujanovac, the number of employees in state institutions and local self-government is over 70% of Serbs. Now if you need to integrate further means to make 100%, then you'd be ethnically clean organs. On the other hand, Albanians in Bujanovac have 55% on the last census.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9906	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I guess we've finished reporting to the Rules of Procedure, so we can allow speakers to declare the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Riza Halimi, you ask why you can't say the Presevo Valley, and otherwise, on the one hand, you ask for it right for yourself, and on the other hand you forbid us to speak to the Shipari and ask us to speak to the Albanians. Why? Because, Mr. Halimi, it's purely politically motivated. So, the geographical concept of the Presevo Valley does not exist for political reasons either, so that you can re-establish some of your other claims based on the fictional geographical concept, insist that you introduce this concept into Serbia's political life. We don't want it, we oppose it and it's our democratic right, Mr. Halimi, and it's against the constitution. So you can't make everything up by your own free will. The Constitution and laws give you certain freedom, but not absolute freedom. So you can't say exactly what you're thinking – here, from now on, it's because we as a national minority want to express ourselves. Secondly, I don't know why it bothers you to be called Shiptar. That's not ugly. That's what the Cypriots in Kosovo have called themselves for centuries. You, Mr. Halimi, must have grown up on that communist literature. Yesterday I read here a book by Fadil Hodge and he says - translated from the Shiptar and that. There's no mention of an Albanian in the book, and I'll bring it to you, so I'll quote, except when it comes to people in Albania and says there are Albanians, but in Kosovo and Metohija there are Shipari, Mr. Riza Halimi. You're the older man who grew up in that literature, you were in that party with some of them. Don't let that bother you. Mrs. Donki Banovic, to answer, we can also look at the stenographic notes, I did not say that Serbia is a concentration camp, but I said that these people who will be forced to experience Serbia as a concentration camp. What do you think, at the very end of the line, when they were looking for political asylum, what they were saying? Did they say they had a good time in Serbia? No, they were saying all the worst, they said their lives were threatened, their existence, everything alive. Therefore, you cannot say, they will not be brought into force. How will they be brought in? Will they be brought in with a soap? Of course not. It's about, I repeat again, the poorest people who have failed to integrate into societies in those countries where they are now staying. Are they staying illegally? Of course they're staying illegally. They are not directly related to Serbia. They don't have our passports, they don't have our documents, because if they did, they'd be deported by regular procedure. (President: Thank you, Mr. Sarovic.) I'm done. We wouldn't need a special readmission agreement. You will receive hundreds of thousands of people here, you say we must try to accept them, we must prepare ourselves. Are you ready? You're not. What do these people expect here? Nothing. You are unable to solve the problems of those in Serbia, let alone hundreds of thousands of those whose EU problems cannot be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9908	The word has a folk MP Radovan Milovankic, then Milan Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9909	Dear Members of the Parliament, before I move on to the topic, I cannot comment on anything, no matter how much MPs of the ruling coalition have tried to portray this as an agreement, agreement or something. Call things a real name, this is one political blackmail, nothing but political blackmail, as you call it, a white package. So the white package is your pure political blackmail. The EU should not fear for perspective, since it has such lawyers in your image, it will certainly last well. One more thing, no SRS MP said these people should not be accepted, but it was said that this agreement should not be accepted because it is bad. Therefore, you should accept all the proposals and criticisms of the SRS to return it to analysis and then release it into procedure. It is the first time in this assembly that we think that a united debate makes sense, because the proposals of all three of these agreements, i.e. the law, are closely linked. That's why we think it should have been by Minister Jocic's side, now he's gone, it's not a problem, there's a Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy present, and I'll tell you later, and why he should be there. There's fewer of them. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of a person who is illegally staying is practically on three pillars, and it can be concluded from the exhibition, and from the material that we have received, it is an organisation of reciprocity and planned return. All three principles raise far more questions than they provide solutions in the given material. First of all, the most important issue that is not being addressed here, although the minister presented the information, is the question of how real the persons concerned are. I remind you that in 2003, the Council of Europe said very casually, out of 50-100 thousand people, and Germany, in statements by German officials, has been said to have about 100,000 such persons. Assistant Minister Mrs. Markovic said that over 200,000 are such faces. So we don't know what number of faces this is, we know there's about 23 thousand prepared documents. Secondly, the question is, for me, perhaps the most important question, how will these people who return to Serbia be integrated. Is it philosophical, planned, or gradual? There are documents that we didn't have in mind, that only the government has for itself. It is likely that this will go according to that principle, the assembly majority will vote, the government will transfer to the ministries, drop to the local level, and then NGOs and the NGO will take care of these persons. The problem is that the projects that come to individual NGOs mostly serve those who write projects, not the real users who need to process these projects. The flood of NGOs from the Rasin County, I come from Kruševac, is just confirming that NGOs are already being prepared to accept such people. So, a step forward, although unknown, is not known until today, whether or not the proposal for a law on readmission will be adopted. The confusion also raises the question of persons from third countries, practically much more issues, and this can be divided into three levels. This first round is not controversial, and the second and third are very controversial. Transit faces, how should they be accepted? Do you go back to what was once, bring in two witnesses and they say you were in Serbia and that you really came from Serbia. The integration plan must take due account of some issues, and these are issues that do not exist in this agreement. It is very clear that those who touch this agreement are poor, poor families, poor groups or poor individuals, without property, and often almost always without documents. If I were to try to give some conclusion to all this, it can definitely be said that this is a political directive that came from the West, you will vote most of it, it is doubtless, and in essence, you did not engage. This law on the validation of the readmission agreement through the principles of economic and social policy should be addressed. Why? Because the largest number of these individuals for economic reasons and social uncertainty left the territory. There's something else I want to say, yes. Democratic governments have failed to deal with this problem further since 2000, have failed to raise the quality of life in Serbia, well-being is not in sight, so we can say that it is the force of deportation of the people returning here. These people used to use the West more to say, when they accepted them, that evil comes from Serbia -- "hot potatoes" don't need it anymore, now bring it back to Serbia. By using the language of the projects that will take place in the next period, I would like to say that the evaluation or application did not predict the number of people that will be covered by this agreement, particularly not covering terms or months, three months or whatever, how it would be accepted. What's most important, it hasn't accessed a real analysis of how these people will find their place in society. So, from everything out of the blue, I can say that this agreement is predetermined to failure, and all to the harm of both Serbian society and these unfortunates to which it applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9910	The word has a folk MP Milan Djokic, then Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9911	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, of the law attesting an agreement between Serbia and the European Community on a facilitated visa procedure is certainly of great importance for all of the categories of population to which it applies. These are people from the business world, students, students, scientists, people who work in the fields of culture, athletes, representatives of religious communities, representatives of NGOs and many other categories. Indirectly, this agreement is of great importance to all other categories of population, including the whole country, it can be said. In fact, we know that the full liberalisation of the visa regime and the arrival of Serbia on the White Schengen list require a lot of work to be done. We also have before us a law confirming the Readmission Agreement, new travel documents need to be issued, a comprehensive dialogue on visa liberalisation needs to be launched, and it is necessary to work to increase security in the Western Balkans with all those countries that claim to be on the Schengen White List one day. However, by signing only this Agreement and by simplifying the procedure for obtaining Schengen visas for all those categories of population covered by the Agreement. Instead of a complicated and really complex procedure so far, which was exhausting and discouraging for all those who wanted to travel to EU countries, the procedure now, thanks to the negotiating team, can be congratulated on the necessity of obtaining only two documents. One document proves the status of a person travelling to EU countries. For students, it's usually indexes, for people from the business world, it's a confirmation from the Chamber of Commerce. Another document necessary to obtain is an invitation letter from the EU country's institution, organisation or company. We could hear comments today that this agreement covers a small population, just a few categories. We could also hear remarks that, unfortunately, because of the poor financial situation, a small percentage of our citizens are in a situation to travel abroad, even if they have a Schengen visa. However, just one of the great advantages of this agreement is that it will indirectly contribute to a more rapid and explosive development of the whole country and all other categories of population through enabling direct human contact from all of these categories of population with its business partners, with their counterparts from EU countries. We can imagine how complicated it was for people from the business world, who wanted to make contact with their colleagues and partners from the EU, to come up with a visa to travel to the EU. However, with this facilitated procedure, they will in direct contact provide for their businesses new business partners, provide opportunities to improve and strengthen their jobs. We can imagine the benefits of the entire country and the entire people from our students, graduates and scientific workers being able to, in direct contact with their colleagues from abroad, exchange of knowledge and values that they themselves are studying. Because of all this, the G17 Plus MP group will vote for both of these legislations on confirming these agreements, because we also believe that freedom of movement abroad is practically one of the important parameters for proving the quality of life, such as, among other things, living standards, health care and everything else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9912	The word has a folk MP Miletic Mihajlovic, then Branislav Nedimovic, then Nikola Savic, and Jelena Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9913	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, readmission, as an important process that implies the return of our citizens or third-country nationals who have left Serbia or have been transiting Serbia to Western European countries, is indeed a major problem. This involves resolving many issues that are significant and that would make it easier for the state of Serbia and these citizens to return. Serbia is certainly not ready to accept such obligations. I think it's easy to access such an agreement, because it's hitting another line on the way to Eurointegration without essentially not being properly prepared for the readmission. Of course, Serbia needs to confirm many agreements, certainly this one on readmission. Of course he should have a proper and proper relationship with his citizens who have found themselves abroad. It certainly takes a lot of steps and a lot of moves in the direction of accepting those citizens. It is, in fact, that there is no adequate preparation, that the state of Serbia is not able, that the international community has done nothing in this field to help the state of Serbia so that these citizens are returned here in a decent manner. The Agreement mentions that the readmission is carried out on the principle of reciprocity. Indeed, the principle is funny when it comes to the reciprocity between the state of Serbia and the Western European countries. It should be said that this reciprocity in this case is quite asymmetric and that it is 99.9% when it comes to bringing citizens back to the country of Serbia, and in the opposite direction almost in prominence. Today in Serbia, there are no basic assumptions for normal life. Any attempt by the SPS to create basic assumptions for a better life, such as raising pensions, or maintaining pensions at an appropriate level, which we have tried through a law that has been rejected, or in order to cost the baby's equipment and food through the abolition of VAT, or in order to give the right to material security to children of peasants who have lost one or both parents, we encounter one resistance in the ruling coalition, it is rejected. So, no basic assumptions are being made for the normal lives of people living here in the state of Serbia. Of course there are no such assumptions about the normal lives of those people who will return to our country to readmission. There is a great unemployment in Serbia today, and the economic situation, you know, is very difficult. Serbia is already burdened by a large number of refugees and displaced persons from the territory of the former republics of the SFRY and from Kosovo and Metohija, and no one is asking for it, of course, not even the international community. It is beyond the principles of international law that Serbia is being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija, with the fact that almost nothing has been done on the return of displaced persons, both Serbs and Roma and other nationalities, while reading a large number of people who are well in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija are being updated. In this way, in the name of the high values of human rights, and in fact more human rights are being violated by the reading than they are being respected, Serbia is already having a heavy burden. There is an impression that the Western European country or member states of the European Union are solving their big problem, not asking how Serbia will deal with tens of thousands of people coming back here in the right way. When it comes to costs, not only of transport costs, but of other costs, there is no word in this agreement. There is only so much that it is understood that the transport and transit of persons that will be covered by the readmission fall on the burden of the state. I add, after they cross the state line, we hint, then you do whatever you want with them. Therefore, none of any assistance, financial or other material assistance the European Community has taken, nor has our country fought for one such relationship and for one such aid in the implementation of this Agreement. There is only one statement in this agreement that says -- they confirm, is meant by the parties, their intention to make greater efforts, including financial, to support such reintegration taking into account financial support in the process. This is one sentence that only blurryly mentions this financial aid, which makes no commitment to anyone, and it's all actually on one long stick. Therefore, for these reasons, the Socialist Party of Serbia cannot accept such an agreement, even in its explanation it is said that the implementation of this law does not require financial resources. I don't know what that term means. Is that the two members, the first and second members, so it's not the essence of that law, if you think the law is just those two members and what we're going to sign, that is, to confirm this agreement. The question is right, how much does it cost to implement such an agreement and what assumptions are created in Serbia for a real readmission, which would do good to those people who have found themselves abroad and who are meant to return here by force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9914	The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go, Mr. Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the presidency, representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, but above all, when we talk about these three laws, which have the character of international agreements, I would like first of all to highlight the importance and importance of the law on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the facilitated procedure for issuing visas. During today's debate, we have heard many reasons why it is necessary to vote to confirm this agreement, or why this law should be passed. Surely all my fellow MPs who have contributed to this have the right and for this reason the DSS MPs will support the proposals of these international agreements in the voting day. It has also been heard from different sides about some of the shortcomings behind these international agreements. I'd first of all like to talk about those positive things. I would like to talk about those things that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, some to a greater extent, have felt in previous years what it means to stand in line in front of the embassy, which means to collect documentation to get a visa for any Western European country, and all in order to achieve your job or to meet your family, as well as some business contact or anything else. Why should these agreements be accepted? They need to be accepted for several reasons. First of all, because they pave the way for a so-called white Schengen list, because they are part of the process of European integration, because most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia support the process of European integration, because most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want to travel and want to move freely. Those are the reasons why we should vote for this agreement. I think these reasons are just enough ground for everyone in the voting day to support these proposals. The main purpose of the adoption of this law on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community is to seek to facilitate the procedure for issuing visas. We were all witnesses in the previous period that the visa process was not an easy job at all. Why is it so, whose fault it is and why we couldn't do it, I wouldn't go into those reasons right now because there could be a lot of discussion about it. We simply need to leave some things behind and think about the future and about Serbia that will live better, to think about Serbia that will have better economic growth and to think about Serbia where citizens will be more satisfied, and surely that this government, headed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, can provide this. Which are some of the instruments contained under this proposal for a law on the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community. In one cheaper way, citizens will be able to exercise their right to obtain visas and visas will be issued that will mean more entry. Let's say, if someone wanted to go abroad, they wouldn't have to keep going to some embassy to stand there in line and wait for the order for the visa, simply, they'd get the opportunity to get more entry into foreign countries over some longer time. The basis for all of this today we are talking about is the agreement signed between representatives of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels on September 18th of this year and certainly, if we adopt these laws in good time, that our citizens will be able to count on these reliefs from 1 January of next year. But when we talk about people who can make this right, I would first of all single out two categories. You will all agree with me that these two categories represent the engine of the development of a modern Serbia. I think my colleagues from the opposition, representatives of the SRS, representatives of the SPS and representatives of other parliamentary groups, who participate in Parliament's work, will agree. Now I will tell you the reason why you will agree to this – surely you have authority in some local areas, in a large number of municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and you certainly need to attract investments, whether domestic or foreign. Why are you doing this? To improve the quality of life of citizens in those environments. How do you think citizens, or representatives of local self-government, can make better contact with investors who come from abroad and who want to open up some facilities in the territory of these municipalities and employ more people – that is exactly the goal, which we want to achieve to have one better Serbia and one better country. I would also like to point to business contacts that are certainly in favour of the fact that representatives of all parties must work to improve the quality of life of citizens. I want to invite you all, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia to work in one common interest, which is better Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9916	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then Vjerica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought I'd be from an entirely immature atmosphere that currently rules in the Kragujevac City Assembly, where I spent all morning and where we talked about the disastrous rule of Veroljub Stevanović... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... Articles 225 and 226 and Article 1, if you want 26 and 27... So, to talk about arguments, colleague Nedimovic, is our job and obligation in this highest legislative body. Since you are someone who wants to travel to Europe, it is your right, I want people from all over the world to come to Serbia who will not take away from us Kosovo and Metohija, who wants to hire people who want us to continue when we take over power to fight crime and corruption, so that Serbia's tycunisation does not work on the recipe of Tadic-Kosutnica. For your information, since I'm surprised you don't know how uninformed you've come to talk about this subject and tell us how to attract foreign investment. You come from Srem, right? You know that the Municipality of Stara Pazova is one of the most prospective municipalities in Serbia right now. You raise your hand, you don't have to stand, you can sit tight and listen, I'll tell you how foreign investors are coming. So, Srdjo Komazec, president of the municipality, Serbian radical, is the most responsible that at least 22 companies from around the world have come to the municipality and are doing the fourth industrial park. There it's employed, for now, "the real thing", eight thousand people with a tendency to get more and more. You're telling us about some white Schengen list and how people should go and run into the EU, which will not provide us with money for the reading. On the other hand, answer the question why does Vojislav Kostunica, followed by Zoran Djindjic, and Zoran Zivkovic, and Vojislav Kostunica, again Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic, not lift visas for Russian citizens who want to come to our country and invest? Were you, colleague, in the O.R. when we discussed the double taxation agreement and the fact that potential investors from India can't come here and that it was an official observation of his Excellency, Ambassador Svarup, to the fact that they can't come here without a visa, and they want to invest, and who knows how many billion dollars? So, buddy, all you're talking about is exact data. So everywhere in local self-governments, Serbian radicals in power are being built, people are being employed, factories are opening up, no crime, no corruption, only productivity and a better future for all citizens living in these municipalities. When you reach that level, when you don't get into a situation where, as your colleague, the chairman of the DSS parliamentary group in Kragujevac, who supported such a government, today after four years of "spraying the ashes" and says – well, we supported it, it doesn't work well. Then come and we'll talk it over. Thank you, Mr. Albianic, I'm sorry I overstepped my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9918	National MP Vjerica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, Branislav Nedimović, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9919	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, which is actually a replica of the exposure of counterpart Nedimovic, because during his presentation he looked at me in my direction all the time and somehow communicated with me. Nothing's funny, colleagues, keep an eye on how this Parliament works, so you'll see. Here, I am looking at you now, and you should understand that this is my address to your party, the Democratic Party, your President, Boris Tadic, who has deceived and lied to Serbian citizens that we will get... (President: there is no need for such a dictionary. )......................................................................................................... Tell me, Mr. Albianic, I don't understand. (President: Continue. )......................................................................................................... Thank you very much. Of course I'll keep going. I spoke to a colleague from the DS, and here, I call on him to come out to replicate because we claim Boris Tadic was agreeing with Serbian citizens in the election campaign. Mr Krasic did a very nice impression here, that is, when he spoke as an authorised representative. Mr. Nedimovic, you said that, given that the SRS has power in a large number of municipalities in Serbia, thank God there is and there will be more, you say, if it is our interest to bring foreign investors, here also Mrs. Gordana Komic, is not currently in the hall, mentioned as a good example of the Vrbas municipality, where foreign investments are coming, here, you heard just now from counterpart Natasha Jovanovic for the municipality of Stara Paz, so in Novi Sad, so is Zemun, so in Aleksinac, and in Požega, Arandevec, not to list, Rumi, in all municipalities where Serbian Radicals are in power. What's our interest at the local level? Of course, our primary interest is to preserve Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija's unity within Serbia and that's what we fight for in every place and every opportunity. When it comes to local interest, what you asked us, our interest is exactly what you heard – opening new jobs, building new plants where these people will work, increasing wages, increasing purchasing power, increasing pensions. When all these conditions come to pass, then you can talk about what you're talking about today and say, there's probably no one here who's never waited in line for a visa. Mr. Nedimovic, you have traveled as a MP, as I have. Neither you nor I were waiting in line for a visa, because it's done to us by the service. These laws of yours apply to the part of Serbian citizens who have never had problems getting visas before. What did you do for Serbian citizens, what did you do first to enable Serbian citizens to have some money so that they could travel abroad, and on the other hand, which you made regarding all citizens? These are discriminatory laws. These laws include only one group of people, those people who have diplomatic passports and who have no problem with visas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9920	The word has a folk MP Branislav Nedimovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9921	I didn't want to put in any negative context all those who want good Serbia in the first place. The other thing, I'm, unlike you, if you're not, standing in line for visas, quite conscious, because it was my will, no one forced me to. Third thing, I think it's extremely important that we help everyone who needs this help from any environment they've come to. And if you vote for this bill, you will also help your municipal presidents to do their job even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9922	Thank you very much. One hour break. The Republic is wanted by Mr Mihajlovic, the first speaker is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our session. Replica was requested by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9924	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in the discussion of the MP, Mr Nedimovic, we had this observation that socialists who participate in local governmental authorities should make sure not to be brakers, so at least I understood that they contributed to these future integrations, new investments, to work together with others in order to create assumptions for Serbia's faster progress and of course our local self-government. So, since I come from Petrovec, I like to say at Mlavi, and I am president of SO Petrovac, I feel called in one negative context, and it can't actually be true because the SPS everywhere at the local level makes its full contribution, in line with the opportunities that we have today in Serbia and based on applicable laws, to make progress in its environments. Of course, the SPS, and I've talked about it before, will always vote for all the laws, decisions, projects, agreements that need to be confirmed here, which guarantee and assume one improvement in our country and all our environments, no matter who proposes these laws. There were examples in this mandate that we voted for such laws, which you proposed. We have a critical view of what you are proposing and we cannot vote for all agreements, for all the laws, which formally join here only to collect some points and make some assumptions, artificial though, in order to get closer to the EU. Such a way of working can't achieve our goal. When we conclude such agreements when it does not take care of Serbia's interests, when we do not take care of the citizens, when we take too much of the burden on ourselves, the great obligations, without being able to do as is the case in this readmission agreement, we must oppose it. Simply, on such occasions, Serbia feels humiliated, at least that's how we socialists look. For these reasons, we believe that Serbia, regardless of who is in power, should make it a real partner of the ambience and of the European community, and not in such a way that only the head of the head of the country accepts everything and everything. As a local self-government in Petrovac, we are interested in investment, in progress, but the state, or government in Serbia at global level, must make much better assumptions for these investments. We have 12,000 people working in Western European countries and the state has not created conditions for them to invest and engage, let alone the possibility of investing foreign investment. I therefore advise Mr Nedimovic, as representative of the ruling coalition, to make real progress and step towards the right laws, together with his coalition, which will make progress for Serbia and its citizens, and we in the SPS will be very happy to support everything that is positive in this direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9925	The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic, and let Jelena Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three draft laws before us, which basically treat the same or similar matter. However, one of the laws, the Visa Facilitation Act, represents only one side of the medal while the other two laws, the Law on Reading and the Law on the Acceptance of Persons in an irregular situation, represent the other side of the medal. Since these laws are initiated by the EU, I can say, based on the experience we have with the EU, that the other, darker, foreign medals will belong to us. So today I'm going to say more about that other, darker, foreign medal. More specifically, I will say something about the Law on Reading with the EU, the Agreement on Serbia and the EU. The average citizen of Serbia, I believe he never heard or knew what the term "readmission" means. Of course, I don't want anyone here, nor do I want to educate and explain what the reading is, but I'm going to try to say and explain what this one is used for, and similar to the other. In fact, whenever something needs to be covered up and whenever something needs to be called by another name, it resorts to such or similar tricks. This law creates an illusion and a partnership relationship between Serbia and the EU, and in essence it is not, in essence this law makes Serbia a final act and at the speed that this law is supposed to be implemented, because deadlines in this law, the norms prescribed by the deadlines in this law, usually say immediately or for the longest of three days. In the light of this law, it is said that there is no cost, but if we look at Article 15, we see that the costs fall on the ground of prayer only to the border of the country which is the final destination. Of course there are other costs, costs from the country's border to destinations within the country that receive citizens who are subject to the readmission. Like I said, this is just the other side of the visa relief law. The visa reliefs that were mentioned here refer to a very small number and narrow category of the population, while the wider categories of the population do not touch or touch. We now receive hundreds of thousands, at least one hundred thousand citizens here for the relief of a small number of people, including, I must admit, those who do not recognise Serbia as their own country, such as Kosovo Albanians, various criminals of all colors, military deserters and many others. The EU is not in a hurry because of visa relief. They're in a hurry to get rid of these faces as soon as possible and bring them here. That it is thus an example that the German state has, in its own time, stimulated these people to leave Germany, so, for example, the number per family went by one, at that time, up to 30,000 marks. Some countries, such as Sweden, have operated exclusively in those areas where nuclear radiation occurred, so these persons have served to do so. Of course, we live here in the state of Serbia and we all know that the state of Serbia, above all, is an evictive country and that this law will essentially have only a one-way fact, and in the preamble of the law is not said so. These and similar laws are adopted primarily to prevent the development of small and economically poorly developed countries by imposing everything on them. Finally, to conclude, when it was useful for EU countries to receive such people to use them for marketing purposes against Serbia, then these persons, these citizens, are welcome to them, and now that they no longer need them, when they are used, should be returned to Serbia and some Serbia should take care of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9927	The word has a folk MP Jelena Markovic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9928	Dear colleagues, I will begin where my predecessor stopped and say that I am glad that Serbia is finally in a position to take care of its citizens and that we are currently in a position to talk about these agreements ahead of us. Of course, I prefer that we have an agreement on visa relief and that it is easier to talk about it because it does not open any misunderstandings or doubts, it is easier for all of us to breathe from the moment we have this first step towards the White Schengen list and that we have the opportunity to tell the citizens that at least part of our promises have been fulfilled by the fact that we will sign this agreement. Therefore, this agreement does not make it easier to travel to just one small category of residents and not only to the holders of diplomatic passports. Let's be honest, these are people who could have traveled anyway without this agreement. I'll just count the categories, for public information, which are covered by this agreement. This agreement facilitates procedures for all travellers, business people, drivers of passenger and freight traffic, journalists, cultural workers, scientists, students and students, visitors to international fairs and events, people who go to medical treatment abroad, close relatives who have relatives abroad, so anyone who attends funerals, even that category of residents. So, one fairly broad leprosy, almost everyone who has applied in any way so far for a trip to the European Union is covered. What caused today's great controversy is the Readmission Agreement, and I would try to put things into a rational and reasonable framework. It has been said here all along that thanks to this agreement Serbia will finally have to accept its citizens who have been illegally staying in the European Union so far. In order to inform the public, we have had a readmission agreement so far, these people have been returning to normal intensity and this agreement will not introduce something into legal practice that does not already exist, but will only unite all agreements that are already in force. So, reminders work, Serbia has 16 signed agreements with other countries. The readmission is a process that takes place recently and the first Readmission Agreement was signed during Slobodan Milosevic's time in 1996 with Germany where the largest number of our citizens are illegally staying. The other thing that's being discussed here is that the subject of political will is whether we will or will not receive these citizens. I think the last thing parliamentarians need to do as official representatives of the Republic of Serbia is to say that we do not want or are unable to accept our citizens, because then we need to know what the conditions are when a country is not being read, that is, there are no circumstances for accepting its own citizens. These are those countries where human rights, the right to life and the right to the security of citizens are seriously threatened. So only in these cases is this not done, not in cases of social inequality or poverty. We are poorer than Western Europe, but we are certainly not a country where citizens are vitally threatened if they return. It is terribly dangerous for us to say from here – please do not return these citizens, because in translation it means a message that those in this territory are not safe. Luckily, they're safe, everything's fine, and they can go back to this country. It is not the obligation of the countries that have sent them and who have been 17 years and which have provided less room and social assistance to these people, to provide conditions for their acceptance. This is our obligation, but despite this, the European Union has shown one good will, and it is indeed a long-running negotiation that at least in a joint statement says that this is a common obligation both sides, so the European Union and our country to provide all necessary conditions for reintegration, including financial assistance. It's also not an unknown thing. I will set an example of Luxembourg, which invested 11m euros in the Sandzak area, as mainly returnees who had been sent to the territory came from Sandzak, with a wave of Bosniak nationality. So it's something that exists, it's something that happens every day and nothing spectacular is going to happen to us by accepting this agreement, except that we definitely confirm that we are a mature and democratic country that takes care of its citizens and that they are no longer a category like those people affected by the war from Rwanda, Iraq and so on, who are now staying in Western Europe and who can't be returned to their country of origin. In Serbia, fortunately, they can be returned. There's been a lot of speculation here about returnees from Kosovo. Also, I want to say that Western Europe not only does not want to, but also that it can't, everything and that it will, people who are internally displaced and who are from Kosovo, the non-Albanian population, Roma and Serbs, and from the territory of Kosovo are returning to our territory because an agreement has been reached and the Council of Europe has adopted a recommendation that this is inadmissible, putting people in a state of double refugees, or that they must all be returned to the territory they have fled from. So, until the conditions for their return are met, they will not be settled on the territory of Serbia's ropes, but the international community will have to enable them to return to their home municipalities, that is, Kosovo itself. One more thing, so that there are no more misunderstandings about Serbia preparing a social bomb, 100 or 200 thousand people will come. The reminders for the sake of this, the data that has already been said today, about 1,600 people have been returning annually, and so far these people, European partners, even though they wouldn't have had to, have an understanding of our situation. The return is performed with a rhythm that Serbia can endure and I hope that we will have the support of the European countries themselves, as it says in a joint statement. What's important to say here is that the state doesn't have any strategy for these people. Please look at the official strategy that was adopted two years ago, which speaks of reading is not a new concept in our public, but something that the state has been serious about for years. So the state has a strategy to accept these returnees, has an office at the airport to accept these people, to provide legal assistance. If there is a lack of communication between the central authorities and local self-government, I hope that the Government will meet it and inform the local self-government of the measures to be taken, in line with the strategy introduced. That we are on a good path to Europe is also the fact that tomorrow will be signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that this country has reasons and that all of us together will receive congratulations and say that we are going towards the path of European and democratic countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9929	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9930	I don't think anyone in Serbia can hear this much praise about the European Union without reacting. God, how wonderful, as the European Union thinks, is giving us back the people who escaped from here when there was no democracy, now there is democracy, and now the European Union is returning us, on our heads it will give us 200-300 euros, for these people to be taken care of. The President of the Republic will open another national office at the airport, that these people have contact with the President of the Republic immediately, with wonderful democratic authority. Where are they going back? To what democratic country? What's waiting for them here? Do you know what they ran away from? Have you analyzed the causes they left for? One of them is the lack of democracy, the lack of human rights in Serbia. I guess that's your basic thesis. Where are they going to fight for their human rights now and in front of what institution? In front of the Democratic Party or is there an institution where people fight for their human rights? That institution calls it the Constitutional Court. To convince people who need to be returned to the country they fled from, to be returned to a state where there is no Constitutional Court. It's the biggest crime. Come on, you condemn us to live in Serbia under this crime, but don't let those people who are used to this beautiful Europe of yours live there in the ghettos, and you know it well. None of them in Europe have been accepted as an equal citizen, as someone who deserves any treatment. They'll collect them under bridges, collect them at the dumps to read the Serbian version, and you know it very well, and it's a big problem, but it's a problem in you. When you're in power, the state is democratic, when you're in opposition, the state is undemocratic. This is the same country from a year ago when you didn't enter parliament at all since it was undemocratic. The same is the Prime Minister, the almost same composition of the government, the same personal composition of the people you said the state was running undemocratic, but only out of the five ministers of the Democratic Party in the government of the state became democratic, the state became tempting, acceptable, and all of our citizens hurried to return to their beautiful country of finally well-being, in which democracy is finally. Don't praise that Europe, be objective, take off your glasses, look at Europe wisely, judge what's good, what's bad. Basically, in the European Union, it is a desire to steal our territory. You have no moral right to speak positively of the European Union ahead of these conditions. The moment they say – yes, Serbia has the right to preserve part of its territory under certain conditions in which it will agree, so we will have no reason to doubt so much about the good intentions of the European Union, but as long as it is clear that they want to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, please do not insult my dignity by praising it. If this means personally to you to praise the European Union, tell us we will last one day, praise it, you will get a job in the European Union and the story is over. And for those of us who have suffered this European Union for so many years and who do not know what has yet been prepared for us and what we still have to endure, even in this Raska, which you call Sandzak, which is being returned to a large part of the Muslims, do not tell us anything nice about the European Union. Go to Gracanica, go to Prizren, go to Pristina, and say, "The European Union is wonderful, it has brought the best for you Serbs."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9931	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga appeared, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9932	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to replicate Mrs Jeleni Markovic. She tried to disprove some of the facts that I made in my presentation earlier this afternoon, and then I quoted one of her statements from two or three years ago when she claimed various things that I don't think are true. And this way, I want to deny it, too, some of the things she brought out a few minutes ago. Namely, there is no strategy for implementing the Readmission Agreement, there is a draft strategy, and in no case can there be a strategy. As for the issues of returnees of those who had the last residence in Kosovo and Metohija, one conference was organised last week, otherwise organised by the Human and Minority Rights Service, there is a 484 group of NGOs, which deals with the issue, presented a survey conducted in Belgrade. The survey suggests that half of the returnees practically had the last residence on Kosovo and Metohija territory. Therefore, what Mrs Markovic was talking about, everything is exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9933	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. The word has Jovan Damjanovic, then a replica, Ms. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to these presentations of certain MPs, I had to come and say a few words. When it comes to Europe, about the European Union and the European institutions, we certainly don't mind, but when we look at how the European Union and European countries are throwing out our citizens in the middle of the night with the police, with the jeeps, with their stamps, with their hands tied, all their assets leave nothing but a suitcase, then we see how much democracy is there. Minister Jocic provided information that the return of 17,900 displaced persons was carried out. I have information that it's 21,000, but we respect the institutions of the system that said so and there's no problem. I wonder, out of the 17,900 displaced persons who came back for the readmission agreement, where do they live? We all know where they live - nowhere. They live the same on camps, under bridges, in nylon barracks, etc. When we say vomit, it's big Corpses, it's the divisions of the people who need to return. Please, we have found no solution for 167 unhygienic settlements in which mostly displaced Roma from Kosovo live. Where are we going with all this people? You say there are over 100, 150 thousand, of which there must be 50,000 Roma, and not only Roma, but all other citizens coming back. We don't have another state, this is theirs and ours, and they're supposed to come back here. I'm asking you, where's the national program, where's the state platform, where's these citizens coming back? Under the bridges?- I'm sorry. No, we haven't found a solution if there's another invasion of our citizens. It's terrible when Mrs Jelena Markovic says we have an office at the airport. I ask you, Mrs. Markovic, is there a Roma in that office? You cannot have a monopoly on one national minority that is the largest after the Serb people. I'm asking you, on the readmission team, how many Roma are there? There aren't any. What are we doing with Group 484? If we're a retarded nation, why don't you let us, we know our situation best, solve together with the institutions of the system, not keep giving us someone who isn't Roma to solve our problem. It's terrible and it's a form of disrespect for national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9935	I thank MP Jova Damjanovic. Ask for a replica of Tomislav Nikolic's presentation, if I understand correctly, Mrs Jelena Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9936	Usually when we have a replica, I have to say something different. Mr Damjanović, I fully support you. So, as someone fighting for Roma protection, absolutely Roma in the office of readmission, Roma at the Ministry of the Interior and possibly at the Commission for the Surveillance and Implementation of this Agreement. Here, here I am, along with you, giving this appeal and demand to the entire public, the public of Serbia, and as far as the draft strategy is concerned, that you have shown the draft of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, it is now the strategy of the Office for Joining the European Union. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9937	I thank the MP Jelena Markovic. Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the Serbian Parliament, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9938	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the alleged agreement on facilitating visas for European Union countries, which is a step towards arriving on the White Schengen list, is a delusion in the sense of pompous announcement of something that will not be. The proposing himself, in line with the constitutional basis, cited the reasons for the adoption of the laws and objectives they wish to achieve. A short time ago, a colleague Markovic listed categories, but she skillfully avoided saying that this agreement only affects the number of documents to be submitted in the application for a visa to the European Union, whether it is issued for one or more stays, we will see how the country will also condition when determining quotas, because it is not easy. What are they going to ask you for? Of course, with a steady working relationship, regular income, that you have a check card, that you have a bank account, that you're solvable, that you have a living space where you live, that you regularly pay all taxes to the state. Earlier they asked for your grandmother's maiden name, and your father's grandmother's name, and your mother's grandmother's mother-in-law, as soon as they didn't ask for the number of shoes, and now it might be in some smaller form and you won't have to fill that information, but it applies exclusively to certain categories of citizens, which is what the promoter himself has accepted when signing the Agreement. You stated in your explanation, I have to address you, Mr. Todorovic, because the minister does not have to refer to business people – lawyers, doctors, architects and other members of independent professions, you have also listed construction engineers. Now that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is going to travel, he's not here, you've counted everything. Have you also listed graduate economists, graduate lawyers? They're gone. Politicologists, teachers, farmers, they're gone. So it clearly refers explicitly to certain categories of people. How is this done now when it comes to, say, tourism trips or business trips to seminars, congresses, here we have colleagues traveling to different conventions in the European Union because of the nature of their work, and how do they have to apply? By humiliating themselves to the highest limits. By having to beg those who arrange for them to travel. Nothing in that sense is going to change, because there hasn't been an increase in the number of those who can ask for visas. Each EU member state has limited the number of Serbian citizens who can travel in that month. You don't think, colleague Markovic, hypothetically, and they have money, and they don't, in Serbia are very poored under the regime of October 5th to this day, that they want to travel to a country of the EU, somewhere abroad, for a tourist stay and, now, everyone plans their departure, and that would be ideal as in that Dinkic video, have good salaries, good cars, solved housing, high earnings, incomes, they want to send children there, they want to travel, they decide a few tens of thousands of citizens to go to Italy, in January of the month. You think the Italians will approve so many Serbian citizens to go to that country? It's a real relief, and that's what you should talk about, if you're talking about something that you've been so pompous about. The question arises, how can the citizens of Serbia travel anywhere? It is a wish for many, and I am convinced that they are also travelling to the Russian Federation, not to go to EU countries. A lot of people want to go to China, which is a long way away, but they don't have money, they have nothing to go on. Well, this is all so taxingly listed, but ask the kids who are in high school, who you taught as their teacher by yesterday, do they barely make ends meet, because they're covered by this agreement to go to junior high school, so they have to be helped by aunts, uncles, and girls to collect some money to travel anywhere, where their school has arranged a trip to the second and third grade high school or graduates, or for graduates, how do they get the opportunity to go anywhere? So, the very story of Boris Tadic was based on the campaign in 2004 on lies and delusions, because on the day he decided on this kind of campaign, and it was all a lie and deception, he dared to go ahead of the German embassy, he saw a young couple and asked them if they had children, they said that, we want to travel to our parents in Germany, to take our children, here's this younger child of grandparents haven't seen since they were born, and he said to it: terrible, so it's tragic, imagine how shocking it is for you and for that child whom grandparents couldn't see for so many years. By my choice as President of the Republic, I will allow you to do so in a few days. Since then, it has passed and, thank God, the end of his term is near, and he hasn't done it. These were not Tomislav Nikolic's promises, because Tomislav Nikolic promised -- I will not co-operate blindly and obediently with those who want to hijack Serbian territory. I want to accept every kind of integration but on equal grounds, no blackmail and no pressure. I want to co-operate with all of whom Serbia as an equal partner is interested in economic investment, for cultural co-operation, and we are talking about this as the biggest project, and you are also witnessing this, and Mr Dulic, that two months ago, the President of the Russian State Dume came and reminded us in the right sense. You know what he said -- well, you from Serbia at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the level of other state institutions, in the field of cultural co-operation with the Russian Federation, have no projects back three years. Then what are we talking about? We will not cooperate on that, on a business basis, and every other basis with one of the greatest forces in the world that is opposed to taking away Kosovo and Metohija, then we will say this is all right, but all to fulfill the Readmission Agreement. The certain Zoran Martinovic, Mr Todorovic, you probably know who he is, was a member of a Serbian delegation who travelled to Brussels on 21 March this year before Dragan Jocic signed the Readmission Agreement. On his return, he said it was a mechanism of gradual, coordinated, tailored return. You know what he said? This, for one thing, Zoran Martinovic said – EU members, as you have listed here the European Community, as a condition for reading will provide full financial support to Serbia in this business, and this is not mentioned here. So, the lie, your friends in the EU lie to you that they will take care of you and that, as a colleague Varga talked about, about a strategy for reading, will give you any money that these people have a safe future here. A certain A.N. from Tutina, who is 45 years old, because it's enough in the old Raska area, not in Sandzak, which you talked about and mentioned some other colleagues, and I refer to him as an example, in the middle of the night he was picked up by police in Germany. At his airport, he went with his wife and five children, took away the last euro, the last cent, because he overstepped his stay. He was returned to his place of origin without a job, without a roof over his head, with a wife and five children, completely unadjusted to the environment he lives in, because he himself said he did not know the Serbian language well. What to say about our countrymen and our friends, the Roma brothers, our fellow Americans, Mr Damjanovic. What to say about the fact that under NATO bombs, the pact had to escape from Kosovo and Metohija as well as Serbs, hundreds of thousands, and today they don't have a decent roof over their heads. I think it's equal to the number of Serbs and Roma in the former cultural building, I mean Ratz Kragujevaca, the House of Vojd Karajordje, whom they called Rambuje, when they were expelled from their hearths. Both these Serbs and Roma know that the state has not taken care of them since October 5th to this day. They have some poor and miserable help, and in that strategy, which Mr. Varga showed, clearly stands what needs to be done and what is the prerequisite to take care of those people who are potential returnees. Many of them won't come back for a living. That A.N. from Tutina, whom I mentioned, he went to the point where he had as much money as he had paid off some German psychiatrist to give him confidence that he was incapable of surviving that trip and to show it to the police when he knocked on his door. You've heard what's going on with the Roma across EU countries. The strategy says, it was made in 2002, you were then at the Ministry of Rasim Ljajic, it was made several years ago but it never came to the adoption of the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, and it was meant to provide full assistance to the community, regardless of whether it was Roma or members of the Muslim religion, or some other representatives of national minorities, or Serbs, who wanted to banish from there, and they are potentially between 50 and 150 thousand, the most Roma, as Mr Damjanovic said. So you don't know at all, even though the draft of that strategy was made years ago, what is the number of people. I have before me a recommendation from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, under the designation 1633/2003. A year. These recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe define in 12 points what are the dangers that offend the returnees, or those that should be accepted by our state or local community in which you want to put it. And that clearly defines all these dangers, from the fact that they don't have any material conditions for life, because they also know for themselves those from the Council of Europe, that we are an overindulgent country, that there are a lot of people here without a job, that it's not a safe return to certain environments. Think about it a little bit, especially making the Roma go back to Kosovo and Metohija, because they escaped from that part of Serbian territory, it's really insane. Are you going to say, we accepted and signed a readmission agreement, and now you gentlemen, from UNMIK and KFOR, which you will escape during the first attack of a terrorist Shipage Organisation, save and returnees, because we see how you have protected for the eight years and Serbs and Roma and everyone who has remained from the ethnic communities to live under difficult conditions. They're stories without any cover. Each of the state officials, every irresponsible minister, and these are all from Kostunica's government and these present and previous ones, went to Brussels, went to any EU country, usually these agreements are signed in Brussels, and said – I accept it all blindly, they are already serving it all. And what are you going to do after? So, that member, and that was the predecessor, this Jocic left, which you would say, as cream on cake, only at the end when they called him and told you it was a dead line, come on, you have to do it, otherwise it's over, it's over, it's the first blackmail. The second is to put pressure on General Ratko Mladic's family. The third is to continue to carry out so-called. economic reforms that mean firing workers continue to destroy Serbia's economy and Serbia's economy, and then to fulfill everything that stands in the Readmission Agreement. And how do you do that when you don't know for yourself what obligations you accept, because the strategy says that centres must be set up to monitor the way and dynamics of the return of people from EU countries. That, whether they are socially secured, and whether you, colleague Markovic, or any of you, or Mr. Todorovic, the minister, are there to guarantee these people that they will get a health book, that they will get a job, that they will have basic social security. How many hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia live here all the time today who don't have it. Do you know that Tomica Milosavljevic has introduced a new regime and a rule that if you want to get a health book, and you have kicked them out of work, you have to find two witnesses from the street and take him to the first office of work, and then to the Department of Social Security and that someone from the street, and that way people wander every day around Serbian cities, you need to confirm that you do not have basic health insurance. So, the truth is what the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, has said, they live there in a kind of ghetto, but their conditions there in such a ghetto are much better than they will be here when they come without anything. Like you, General Zdravko Tolimira, with a bag on his head, a body bag, kidnapped and took from Serbia from the Refugee Hair to The Hague tribunal, so they intend to deal with those potential returnees. So, are you going to sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, what you're going to do and talk about it on TV for days and nights, citizens are not interested. They are interested in preserving Kosovo and Metohija, they are interested in whether, like counterpart Zeljko of the SPS, you will propose in his amendment, to break relations with every EU country that recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Also, Serbian citizens at this time, today, November 6th, are most interested in the start of the trial of our party's president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. The status conference in The Hague is under way, the day before his trial begins. Today is the 1715th day since he was in The Hague. Serbian citizens will be most pleased to have his return to Serbia on the day he is dealt with by the end of those who have laid out all the conditions, which are still intent on destroying Serbia and the Serb people. Since my colleague Radeta just threw me, exclusively, the news that can cheer all citizens of Serbia, which is, of course, the intention of so-called. Public service to delay the transfer of the trial, from today to 21.00 p.m., in the evening, the president of our party. And to those of you who, I believe, with great care to watch and only to follow, since the status conference is in progress, which we can only follow online now, from now on, to all those who did not believe in power, the determination of one man and the victory of his ideas for Serbia and the Serbian people will be increasingly clear, and I believe that his return here is coming, as well as people who want to do it alone, not to be forced as dogs and thus to be welcomed by this and this incompetent authority in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9939	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miljan Rangelovic, and have Milorad Buh prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9940	Thank you. What do you say after a speech like this? No, I'm gonna have to do something. With all due respect to the vice president of the National Assembly, I must say that our citizens and our fellow citizens are not wandering, these people are walking or looking for something. On the other hand, how it is possible that such a party has had to do so much with the government. We wouldn't have this agreement in front of us today if it wasn't for all that it was. Do we want to think about that a little bit? Therefore, this is another law that will significantly improve the lives of young people in Serbia, as well as all of our citizens. For what? Because these certain governments of earlier years, about 1/4 of our citizens, and especially young people, have never gone abroad, except for Montenegro. With our passport now, without all the complicated visa procedures, we can travel to a territory slightly larger than the territory of the former Yugoslavia. That's why it's one sad truth. Right now, we need to get a visa to go abroad for about a dozen documents, of course, all depends on the state and the embassy. When we adopt this law, in addition to passports, demands and calls, one or two more documents will be required, all depends on which category of citizens we belong covered by this agreement. That's not all. Once you get a visa, you can ask for the next visa and you'll get it for a year at unlimited number of entrances. When that visa expires, you can request another visa that you will receive for a period of 2-5 years, too, with unlimited entry. Answer your request to receive a visa you will receive within 10 working days. If the request is addressed urgently, the answer shall be given within three working days. Why is that important to young people? Because young people need to learn about the way they live in the EU. They have to get to know all the values. They need to know all the things we really want to be members of the EU. For young businessmen, this means that they will be able to make their business agreements much easier with their partners from abroad. So they're going to have more time to do their job, so they're going to be able to find a new business idea, and that just means that those young people who are currently out of work are going to get a job, because every new idea, every new business contract is usually going to open up some more jobs. We, as MPs, sir, must work in the interest of our citizens, and above all in the interest of our young people. So please listen, I'm talking about young people. There's been a lot of political propaganda for this pay phone. We have young athletes. These people have to travel, these people have to compete. Do you know how many times they didn't go to some foreign competition just because they didn't get a visa in time? Our job as their representatives is to provide them with the conditions that they can get their visa in time, and their job is to deal exclusively with the preparations for winning these competitions. For young people who are socially active, it will also mean a lot to this visa relief agreement. For what? Because they will be able to pick up ideas, even political ideas, bring them to Serbia and discuss them. I went into politics to fight for both this country and its citizens, and especially for young people, to get better year by year. It's a process that lasts. Let's not promise people it'll be better in a month. Let's go, life is getting better, but it's a process that lasts and it's not easy to change everything we found a few years ago. This agreement is the first step on our path to visa-free regime. Young people know that money is only made by work, only by finding new markets, and that is why I urge you to support and vote in favour of this agreement. I am pleased that at least most of the MPs in this room and in this congregation are aware of the importance of the decision we are discussing today. I ask you to remember how many of us young people there are, to remember under what conditions we have lived and what we have lived through and experienced in our youth. I ask you all together to correct this injustice, to show together that we can be different. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this proposal. That's what we owe to young people living in this country, that's what we owe our fellow citizens who will first cross our country's borders after this. After all, that is what we owe ourselves, because we will know that we have done something that will make our people with much more dignity travel abroad. I don't want to be long with this speech anymore, because young people don't have time to wait anymore, and especially we don't have time to wait in line for the visa.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9941	According to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Zeljko Vasiljevic, Momir Markovic, Goran Cvetanovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting under Rule 225. I've been listening to the debate all day, listening to the praises of those MPs who support these amendments and the additions of the law on readmission, briefly, not to repeat the whole name. I just wanted to let them know some facts. Gentlemen, is it possible you don't know it's still '88? In the year GND, the German intelligence service created a secret plan they called "Roman Land", to move 100,000 refugees from the territory of the then state of Serbia-Montenegro to move to eastern, southeastern and southern Serbia? Did you know that the Germans then predicted 10,000 marks for every person returned to Serbia to give to Serbia to receive them? Did you know that they had saved a billion marks for this project? For this project called "Roman Land", it's true, I've heard of it for the first time in '94. Years, and '97. I had a chance to read about him for years. What are you telling us here that this doesn't cost anything to this country? Do you think the Germans would have prepared a billion marks for such a single project, that it cost nothing to this country? Do you really think that every citizen who comes to Serbia to live on air, on water, will live under a tree? Do you realize that the huge cost of this country will come from accepting these persons who have left Serbia? Do you know, and I'm telling you, it's not the exact information that the minister brought out here, that 65,000 people should return that number is far greater. We don't have dynamics, we have nothing. Are you aware, by signing such an agreement, that is, of a law like this, do you know what obligation you are making for this troubled people and this troubled state?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9943	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to finally clear who gets visas and for whom are these reliefs provided under this law? He says "for members of official delegations who, at the official invitation to the Republic of Serbia, will take part in meetings, consultations" etc. Have official delegations, representatives and the National Assembly, individual committees, and all others so far received visas and normally gone to meetings in the world etc? He says "for business people and business representatives". Have business people and representatives of companies ever received visas before? What is it that makes this law easier now? "For drivers performing international transport services." All drivers driving trucks with that TIR board have visas to go through all European countries. "For members of the train crew, a wagon of freezers and locomotives travelling to the territory of the Member States." Could any driver have sat on a train and crossed the border without having a visa? Were our trains leaving and foreign coming here? They did. So nothing changes. "For the press." How many journalists have gone to track down some of your officials since 2000? Full plane. A delegation of 10 people and a full plane full of journalists, of course, similar journalists who will write celebrations and praises about how amazing successes you've achieved at these sessions or where you've already been. I remember when Mr. Dinkic went to the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, so there were 10-15 journalists with him. Incredibly financial results, the National Savings Bank opens. We all thought the National Savings Bank was a state bank. When, like, the bank of several small collective owners, it seems to me Hamovic, that's what his firm and others were called. This bank, made of state-owned couples lying in the Euroaxis bank, sold after Greece, of course, with a thick dowry of 7,200 square feet of the highest quality business space. "For those who participate in scientific, cultural and artistic activities, including university and others' professors. Can't those faces get a visa so far to go and what's making it easier for them now? I'm sorry, if I could use a few more sentences, so I wouldn't answer again. "For students, students, graduates', excursions etc. And so far our children have gone, at least to Greece, with a visa and certainly no problem. "For participants in international sports events." Which athlete, unless it's ordered from there not to come because maybe he'll win, which athletes denied the visa? "For participants in official exchange programmes." The exchange of students has run without a problem so far. "For close relatives – spouses, children" etc. Also, they could always get a visa. "To visit military and civilian cemeteries." I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9945	Come in again. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85(5), I am extending the work on the starting point of the agenda until the end of the agenda. We have 22 MPs who have called for a discussion and two MPs who have reported to the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Dr. Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9946	Mr. Chairman, I think it's been 1600 hours and you, according to the Rules of Procedure, were obliged to extend the session before 1600 hours ago. By the way, that means that what you've done isn't according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope that by the time I finish my presentation, you have the opportunity to check, consult with the Secretary of Parliament, and you will find that I am right. I am reporting under Article 226, because students, young experts and athletes have been given the opportunity to look for a chance to leave the country without delay and harassment in front of the embassy, at least those remaining in our country. Why in some different way do I want to get some information out? Since the early '90s. The year left Serbia between 300 and 400,000 citizens, including at least 10% of highly educated personnel, which means there are about 40,000 people with a college degree. Knowledge in the increase in productivity and competitiveness of certain countries participates with as much as 40%. It turns out that the EU is far behind in this regard, especially behind the United States, Japan and Canada, and that is why they have come to the conclusion that by 2010, they must start to single out at least 3% of the total social product, especially when it comes to research and development of their scientific institutes, that is, when it comes to their countries. More than half of these funds have just been allocated from their countries' budgets, but the rest is coming from the economy. With us, it's a little bit, about 0.4%. In 2004, the United States issued some 3,300 evictive visas to Serbian citizens. Those who are already in America, instead of student, research or scientific visas, are now looking for an evictive green card, while local experts are running at the embassy. More than 50% are those who are now applying for a U.S. visa. Why did I make this introduction? Because, according to research, we lost about $12 billion in our brain drain from Serbia. International organisations estimated at the end of the HH century that the production of a scientist or a highly educated human being cost about $300,000, where, apart from tuition, education, housing, clothing, health insurance included. At that price of $300,000 for every highly educated person, it doesn't count for a high-level person, which means that our country has so far lost between $9 billion and $12 billion just in the name of highly educated personnel. If high school personnel are included, especially when it comes to medical technicians or nurses, especially in Italy, France and Germany, then we will come up with much larger figures. In 2005, a major immigration wave was expected to emerge after the accession of new members in the European Union, but it has been shown that Europe is being safeguarded by special, successful anti-immigration measures. However, on the case in Serbia, it is clear that the European Union is also encouraging the eviction of young educated people, and in any case we need to take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9947	I thank Dr Cvetanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Dimitrijevic appeared, and then again Dr Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich. Believe me, no problem, you didn't inform me in time, you're my advisor, please, so I made a mistake maybe. I'm sure we'll be done by six o'clock, how well we're doing, I'm sure we'll be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9948	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, I have only reported that fellow members of the ruling assembly majority try to answer the question. Does he really believe that the ruling assembly majority has made a real effort to present this problem in the right light, not only to MPs who are not from the ruling parliamentary majority, but to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? If that were the case, I suppose with this document, that is, with this book called the law, it would present, possibly, some government strategy for this problem, a government action plan for this problem. There's no such thing. Is there a strategy? Is there a government action plan? Many say it exists, but when it's not available to the public and it's not there. Then, if it were good will to see the situation in Serbia and how it is, the social situation in Serbia should first and foremost be seen, because this law is directly related to the social status of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what the Socialist Party wants to point to. He wants to point out, above all, the currently million unemployed who are currently in Serbia, after only part of the privatization carried out and possible another million unemployed after the second part of privatisation, which is announced, of millions of dissatisfied pensioners who have pensions below the minimum consumer basket and below the possibility of buying that minimal consumer basket. There are now 300,000 of these people, refugees or internally displaced persons in Serbia. And what number is waiting for us, that's a big question. Someone says 50, maybe 150 grand. Why isn't it said there could be 300 grand? Who guarantees there won't be so many. What's going on in Serbia today? Strikes, one strike a day at a time. We've already warned on strikes from this pay phone. Every day new strikes are announced – strike of union employees in the administration, justice, public enterprises, "Jumko" Vranje, Robne kuća "Belgrade" etc. What's going on now? Well, we just heard the minister's interpretation that the minimum salary increase negotiated in this strike will seriously jeopardise the macroeconomic stability of the budget. What will happen to the secession of Kosovo, is anyone wondering? Whether they're considering what countries and what they want to do with these people, where they're being sent, and then those same countries that bring back these people, which they don't know exactly how many, on the other hand they want to take not only 15% of our territory, they want to recognize such a single document, but they want to steal maybe a lot more, because we don't trust them anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9949	I thank Dr Dimitrievich. The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic, and then hopefully, we continue the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue where my time has ended. "For visits to military and civilian cemeteries," what this country did to preserve the First World War military cemetery. I ask how many cemeteries are too soon where they keep and where the military cemetery is preserved and kept by our friends, I mean the Greeks, there are them in Tunisia, in Bizerta, etc. Next, "a person who attends funerals" and so far has no problem. A person in need of medical treatment without adequate treatment for Serbian medical institutions has not been able to provide them with any problems so far. Finally, as a cake cream, representatives of civil society organisations also come, referring to Sonja Licht, a political exception, as she was called, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic and other organisations of the so-called civil society. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, where are the citizens here? You're waving white Schengen lists for citizens, and where are the citizens, where are those who are not representatives of civil society organisations? Where are they, who aren't students? Where are those who aren't students so they can go on a field trip? Where are those who don't participate in scientific gatherings? Where's six and a half million other citizens? Say the visa here is only provided for these categories, and in return we'll have to receive several hundred thousand citizens on the readmission system. Do not lie to the Serbian people to provide visa relief for the citizens of the Visa Facilitation are provided only for these categories and it is clearly written in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9951	I thank MP Momir Markovic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, so let Miroslav Petkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about these three laws, we must regretfully say that this first law is positive from the point of view of security of conditions for going abroad, since it provides for facilitated visa security conditions. However, these other two laws are very negative and will cause huge consequences in the emerging period. Here we have heard from the representatives of the government a lot of arbitraryness, which concerns the number of people who will, above all, return the countries of the European Union and third countries to Serbia. So far, we've been able to get more information through information funds, and again arbitraryness, which points to the number of returnees. We received information from the Government of the Human and Minority Rights Service, issued by Director Petar Ladjevic, one figure of 60,000. The European Union's accession office came out with data between 100 and 150 thousand. Foreign information funds say, according to an accelerated procedure for the departure of those groups of people and those who are registered and who are now under special supervision to return, and this return will be most likely, we heard here that in the process 24 thousand, the procedure will be up to 24 December and 25 December, respectively, until Catholic Christmas. We can expect these 24 grand by the end of the year. Calculation 100, 200 is arbitrary, but with tragic consequences. These people, who come back here, we need to provide accommodation, food, treatment conditions, health services, conditions for their children's schooling, travel expenses, etc. Here's just one example that will clearly show you the financial cost of our country. In a similar situation, refugees and exiled persons are in collective centres. They cost this country, according to some calculations we have from the Refugee Commissioner, say it is about 20 euros a day. Now we multiply those 20 euros a day by those 100,000, then we get two million, times 365 days, then we get 700 and some million euros. From what means will we resolve the housing issue of these people, provide food, treatment, etc.? We don't have those funds right now. We're talking about a draft national strategy to take care of these people. Please, in a legal sense, the draft represents nothing. A draft from two or three years ago even less. What's the mission of the state? This state must urgently, primarily think of the Government, establish a national strategy that will determine clear rights, obligations, bearers of activity and adequate means to take care of these people. When we say a national strategy, it must involve several entities that will be covered. So, the government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, then the Ministry of the Interior, which will deal with the reception and transport of people to certain locations. We need to include local self-government without which this will not be possible, and humanitarian organizations. This country has no means. If there is no EU funding for these people, we have even less. If we don't take this problem seriously, in 20 days, we'll have a situation where these people will come before local self-government, to the president of the municipality and to the authorities of the administration, and ask for help. The local authorities don't have the resources for these people. There's no government either. The 2007 budget has not provided funds, and these funds, which I am talking about, will be very difficult to provide. When we talk about reading, then we have to say that the situation of people's arrival and deportation has been over this whole period. So this is not unusual in EU relations with third countries. According to data, again the Association Office, between 2000 and 2003, a total of about 10,000 people were deported. From 2003 to 2007, or until this last one, here is the minister who told us, around 17,900, about 18,000 people, but it is problematic when we ratify these agreements, the EU is working fast. We get our people here. What do we do with them? We need to link it to similar situations we have with the refugee population. In the collective centres, which were in 1996, about 30,000 refugees were housed. In 1999, some groups from Kosovo and Metohija still joined, about 10-12 thousand. Now, at the collective centers, we only have 7,200. It is these people, refugees and exiled persons, in collective centres, who say they fear these activities of the state, that they will end up on the street and in their place that people from abroad, or this group that we are talking about today, will come. When we talk about costs, we seriously have to deal with the question of how much this country is going to cost. We can't finish the work on our own. We need to be clear about that. If accepted, and this agreement and these two agreements will be adopted, we must immediately get to the EU's manger. Without the help of the EU, without the help of humanitarian organisations from the world, we will not solve this problem. Right now, we have 94 thousand refugees, which we don't care about either. These people are left for mercy and mercy. With Croatia we have signed a dozen agreements concerning social status, care and pension regulation, etc., but Croatians play each of these agreements. Instead of telling Croatia, you can't behave like this, you have to respect every agreement, because we will return the reciprocity in a certain way, and we will define ourselves as the measure that we estimate is the most acceptable. We blindly execute all contracts towards Croatia. We will blindly execute this contract, ratify and create a problem for ourselves. Secretary of the Ministry, you have a great responsibility. Your people will have the most trouble getting in, recording, and where do you put these people, where do you take them? No one's thinking about it. Without a national strategy, a serious state cannot enter this business. This is unserious, this is blasphemous. These people, and we're going to look at them here, I'm telling you, after a month or 40 days after a more massive return, we're going to see them here in front of the Assembly -- we're sick, with no resources, we're going to get wet, we're going to freeze, we're going to see them, we're going to see them here. Who's going to come out and tell them something positive? Do we have the strength to tell them and give them a certain perspective? We don't. Don't get into this without a national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9953	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Buhi. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and let Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9954	The Honorable Chairman, the respected representatives of the interior ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, respected citizens of Serbia, I think today's debate has shown well how many different views there are on these two agenda points. I've got the number of registered debaters, 38, I think he's talking enough. Of course, representatives of the ruling coalition have presented arguments in today's debate that will lead them to vote in favour of the Visa Facilitation Agreement and the Readmission Agreement. It was also a pleasure to listen to all representatives of opposition parties. Some will vote for both of these agreements, some for just one, some for none. I think that says enough how divided we are about this topic and how important it is for all Serbian citizens. I will try in a brief presentation to say why DSS MPs will vote in favour of this agreement and think it is good, it represents a major step forward, both in joining the EU and in facilitating the functioning of life, work, business, visitation, education and everything that is important, above all, for young generations and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, this agreement establishes a formal legal framework that allows, with a reduced procedure, a reduction in the number of documents needed for issuing visas, with extended time limits on which visas will be issued and at a reduced price, I think that these are good arguments to accept this agreement as one step forward, as a given hand, as a fact that will facilitate the situation for our citizens, unlike those in which they have been present. I remind you that the price of a visa is 35 euros for the Western Balkan countries, for the rest it is 60 euros. There are a large number of categories of persons who are exempt from all costs, i.e. a taxi to pay for these visas. Some colleagues before me have listed how many groups, different groups and categories of persons there are, I think, in the bill of this law, 17, covered by this agreement, so they don't repeat themselves. I think it is extremely important to point out that these visas are needed, which our citizens are looking for in foreign diplomatic consular offices, for their entry and stay in these countries, or in EU countries, or for transit and transit through EU countries. Certainly, it is important, in spite of the representatives of the state who have been able to do so far with diplomatic passports or with their civilian passports on the eased procedure of obtaining a visa, it is certainly important to say that it is also important to say that even if some consider it easy if they are only doing this job that they can automatically get a visa, very important, that it is important for students, students, teachers, teachers, teachers, cultural workers, but also what would specifically point out that it is possible for all of our citizens to visit their relatives abroad much easier. I remind you, once again, that our negotiating team has done this job extremely well in defining the term itself, the " members of the rope family", which includes parents, wives and children and grandparents. That's clearly listed. Therefore, I think that it may act as it is stated, irrelevantly, but believe in many families that have so far had a problem getting a visa and traveling away, to see their loved ones, this represents significant progress. Not to mention how important this is for all those people who will be treated abroad, who will have the opportunity to go to the funeral of their loved ones, because, I remind you, in the proposal of this law, a foreign diplomatic consular representation is required to issue a visa within ten days. This deadline may be extended for up to 30 days, but the option is that the shortest period may be three days, and in special situations and shorter. I don't think that needs to be explained, especially in the event of death, how important it is to react quickly. Of course, what is a fact and what corresponds to all the citizens of this Serbia, regardless of where they are in the category, are also tourist trips where the procedure is much simplified. I'll remind you of all those lines that, unfortunately, exist before foreign embassies during vacation periods. Also, the agreement stipulates that visas can be issued for the longest time in five years, and under certain conditions only for a year, unless there is no abuse, they are automatically extended to a period of another year. I say, once again, a large number of our citizens will be released from the visa fee. I remind again, first of all, of close relatives who will have the opportunity to travel abroad, and for children under the age of six, completely free of charge, these visas will be issued. As far as this agreement is concerned, it is concluded on an indefinite period, not time-limited, which is one of the reasons why I think I should support the agreement signed by Interior Minister Dragan Jocic. In the end, this agreement was signed in September of the month. On 24 October, the European Parliament discussed the agreement and accepted it, and what is very important is that the EU Council of Ministers will also discuss and ratify the agreement on 8 November. I think it is the least that the Serbian Parliament can do – that this agreement is adopted in our Assembly, so that on 8 November, the Council of Ministers will also accept it, so that all Serbian citizens can really benefit from all the advantages that this agreement brings to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9955	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and let Natasa Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have already talked enough about the virtues of this first document, the visa relief agreement, and I'm just going to supplement that it's a discriminatory agreement. With a few sentences I'm going to refer to this second document, call the readmission agreement. Why do I say call the agreement? For the simple reason that, in order for a document to be an agreement, there should be two equal sides that agree on a problem, some issue, and then come up with certain agreements. There's no equality here. This is about the relationship between the EU and the current Serbian government, which is the same relationship between the master and the servant, i.e. the master and the vase, or subjects. In such conditions, it is not an agreement that can be talked about, but a dictatorship. This right here, which is right in front of us, under point. 2nd and 3rd are EU dictatorships, the current government of the Republic of Serbia, but they will cost all citizens of Serbia fat. This agreement came out of the EU's desire to be freed primarily by Roma and Shipara who are illegally staying in the EU as soon as possible. Well, that's an open-minded thing to say. In all this, in the desire and desire of this democratic Europe, Serbia is meeting them and accepting the conditions of their dictatorship. The agreement is one-sided, although the argument mentions reciprocity, it is clear that there is no other direction. There is only one direction here, a direction from Europe to Serbia. This agreement is also incorrect in terms. Mr Krasic has already indicated that this document mentions both the European Community and the EU, which, of course, is not correct. Another incorrection is higher and is mentioned in Article 2 where Serbia's obligations in the readmission process towards its own citizens are discussed. It states which citizens who have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia who are staying illegally in EU countries must accept this country. Then the second point is said that Serbia, besides those who have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, will also accept "young children" who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Please, if you accept something and sign it, at least make sure it's termological with what's called the Serbian language. I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, I've been trying to consult some lawyers to explain to me that it's not some legal term used in legal practice, how underage children can be single. Are there married underage children? Kids can come from a marriage community, from an out-of-marriage community, but "married and single" can't be. At least coordinate it in these documents. I'll say this agreement treats two categories of citizens. The first category is citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have already mentioned, nothing is disputed from the aspect of this country to accept all its citizens who are illegally staying in EU countries. I think it's the obligation of the Serbian state. No one needs to draw messages or lessons from the presentation of the representatives of the SRS that we are against these citizens. No, we accept them, they are our citizens, our citizens, and they should come back here if they can't stay there. They don't need to be signed and made a deal like this. It's our obligation, both constitutional and human and moral, and whatever you want. It should be said that our citizens didn't leave here by force, no one forced them out and expelled them, they left mostly for economic reasons, because they don't have economic conditions for life in this country. What is controversial here is the second category of citizens, which is the subject of this agreement, which is citizens of third countries and people without citizenship. I would pray, perhaps I'm wrong to interpret this, that someone would explain to me the difference between the face of a third-country national and a stateless person. If I understand that correctly, these first ones are known where they come from, whose citizens they are, and these others are unknown. If it is known to some citizens from which countries they are from, whose citizens they are from, then what made Serbia's commitment, and not Serbian citizens, to accept them. I can't agree and I can't accept that kind of commitment. What happens if the European Union, or the countries of the European Union, now go to all of the Shiparas, which said that the Cypriots and those who are citizens of Albania, that all of the Cypriots who, through Kosovo, whose Kosovo by-cell, have gone to the European Union, are now returning to Serbia? Does the current government possess information that such an agreement exists between the European Union and Albania? Is there between the European Union and some other countries in our environment? Why are we here even talking and making an agreement to accept persons who are third-country nationals? I don't see the logic at all. If it is already known about a person whose citizen is not being delivered, why is he not returning there and not Serbia? I must remind you that many people of the Cypriot national minority in Kosovo are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is not since 1999 and 2000, this is a process that has lasted for decades in these areas. A large number of citizens from Albania crossed before World War II and after World War II on Kosovo and Metohija, settled and never won citizenship. They live there and can live with residence paper that proves their residence in Kosovo to return to Serbia. They can come back under this agreement of yours on the basis of a travel ticket, based on two witnesses and any document that is otherwise not valid for proof in these situations. I'll just remind myself that I have information, maybe it's not true, but I'll say that even one president of the former Socialist state, so the president of the state was without Serbian or Yugoslav citizenship, a colleague. There's a large number of such citizens. How humiliating this document is primarily for the state of Serbia and for the Serbian people, I will prove just a few examples, several details of this document. For example, Article 2 discusses the reading of its own citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stands – Serbia will accept without special formalities. So Serbia must not even try to check what is offered to it by any return-seeking country, i.e. to banish citizens living there in Serbia. Furthermore, in Article 2, point (4), says – after Serbia gives a positive response to the request for readmission, the diplomatic representation of Serbia will issue immediately and no later than three working days, travel documents, etc. Please, our citizens, the citizens of this country who are born here, have been waiting for the assurance of citizenship for years from their country, and now we must no later than three working days to issue travel documents to persons who, some there, drive out of Europe to Serbia. It also repeats in Article 3, that Serbia will accept, at the request of a Member State and without special formalities, persons who are third-country nationals. So we can't ask them if these documents, which they offer, are evidence based on which they deliver and banish citizens, whether they are valid, valid and whether we can accept these citizens. Article 8 says – we must accept these citizens and with documents whose deadline of importance has expired. We here, our citizens, Serbian citizens, prescribe some time limits for the validity of certain documents, not to say that they last for days, or that they express the time of day, we prescribe very short deadlines, and now we receive foreign citizens, third countries, based on documents that have expired. Gentlemen, this is about a dictatorship. In Article 10, it is said – to request a readmission must be answered by written means within two days. Please, in no situation in our country we don't have such short deadlines, not for any legal action or any administrative procedure we don't have such short deadlines, and now we have two days to respond and by written means to the request of these states. In order not to take more time for my colleagues from the SRS, I will look back once more – these documents that are in front of us are harmful to the state of Serbia. I said this was the first discriminatory one, and these other two are racist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9957	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković, and be prepared Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9958	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, Ministry representatives, the Democratic Party, of course, supports the conclusion of these two agreements and will vote for their ratification, because both agreements are essential for improving our relations with the European Union, and as we all know, Serbia's accession to the European Union is one of the programme priorities of the Democratic Party. Why are these two agreements important? Our opinion, above all, is the fact that these two agreements have already been signed in some form of recognition that in Serbia, political and economic stabilisation is at work, and I think, together with this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is being signed tomorrow, it is one fact that should cheer us, no matter how different our opinions are about how much and what we have achieved on the road to joining the European Union. First of all, a few words about the readmission agreement of the illegally staying person. For our citizens and for our country, this agreement is one step closer to the White Schengen list and it is an important thing that we achieve by this agreement. Of course, the European Union has its own interest in this, and this is certainly a matter of policy-making to curb illegal migration that, for every country, and for the European Union in general, means some threat to economic development, that is, economic stability. However, what I think is essential when we talk about this readmission agreement, and we all have in mind that Serbia has already had 17 bilateral agreements concluded, with different countries individually, where the return of those persons from the European Union countries is already largely being carried out. We've heard here that since 2003, 23 thousand demands have been filed, that 18 thousand people have been returned and we've been receiving returnees for years, that's a fact. Without this readmission agreement, which is on the agenda today, a large number of those returnees, who will be returned under this agreement, would be returned under these bilateral agreements, and that is important to keep in mind. This Agreement achieves a uniformity of legal procedure, therefore, legal practice with all Member States of the European Union. This Agreement will, of course, have a primate in relation to all these other bilateral agreements if the provisions of bilateral agreements that exist do not comply with this readmission agreement. It is certain, of course, that the application of the Readmission Agreement will cause a number of problems. There is no need to minimize problems in any way, for none of them will benefit. What is important to us, as MPs, is that it is the fate of people who in most cases have left their country in a difficult situation and gone abroad. They are, indeed, very often, caused by great pain and their situation is not much better even now that they are in the countries of the European Union. Their children there go to schools, they don't even know our language quite well, we need to integrate them, we need to ensure that they learn language and continue their development in the most normal way. That is, therefore, our citizens and we are obliged to help them with everything they need. What is important to do in the process of implementing this agreement when it is adopted, or when we ratify it, and I hope we will? It is important to specify the issue of the strategy for the integration of returnees. We must urgently create all those mechanisms that we will be able to accept in an organized way and integrate them again. In that sense, I think it is important that we work on the integration of all policies that will come into question, therefore, and the Ministry of Interior, and the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It seems to me that the question of the return of all these people will, in fact, be in the jurisdiction of most of our respective ministries, and there is a need to make some integration of all these individual policies. Of course, a great burden will fall on the organs of local self-government, which is why we need to have the whole system prepared. I want to point out one thing, it seems to me that as MPs, we have a specific task and a role in this process, and that, among other things, is that in the local environments from which we come we influence to create, as far as possible, a good atmosphere, trust between the returnees and the local population, which in some areas, you remember in times when refugees came to Serbia, was violated. I think it's our job and we have to work on it. In addition to having to be organized at the state level, I think we need to show a great deal of social solidarity. In that sense, I would like to invite all those who will work in this process to support the efforts of those associations of citizens who are not much, but not a bit, who have already launched some programmes to support the returnees, these returnees who have already been returned, so they already have some experience in it, because I think that every initiative that goes towards helping these people requires our support. Now a few words about the Agreement on visible relief. This agreement covers a large number and category of people and our citizens. So there are students, graduates, professors, scientists, cultural workers, business people, journalists, athletes, people who go abroad, representatives of civil society organisations, participants in seminars, conferences, tourists. I think it's a really big number, and it's also about citizens visiting our people who are legally staying abroad, and it's not really small. What is also important is that a common visa centre is formed. So, citizens won't have to go to their embassies and consulates individually for each country, there will be this one joint centre. The number of documents required to issue visas is reduced, of course, and that is not a meaningless argument. In the end, the visa will be issued free of charge to everyone except business people and tourists. So, all of these categories we mentioned will have the opportunity to get a free visa and the possibility of issuing a visa for more travel. In this debate, there was an argument that I would like to look back on, I think it's very important, that this agreement is not very relevant, it's not very important, because in Serbia only about 11% of people have passports and the number of people covered by this agreement is actually not that big. However we categorize and evaluate this argument, it seems to me that it does not diminish the importance of this agreement, even if it were true. Because for a developing country, for a country that has passed a traumatic experience and sanctions and isolation, in which our scientific institutes, medical schools and all other colleges have for years not received foreign magazines, publications, have not gone abroad, have not been able to exchange their knowledge, their experience, their practice with their colleagues, in which young people have not been able to see what the world looks like beyond our borders, it seems to me that for such a single country this agreement is very important. Of course, we all advocate greater economic development, greater employment and more good foreign investment. But when you look at developed countries today, you'll see that they're all talking about knowledge-based economies, because today it's the only successful and competitive kind of economy. Therefore, any acquisition of experience in good practices in economic, health, education and science is essential for Serbia's economic and social development. And, if we remember when Serbia was creating its own state in the 19th century, it then very well understood the need for young people, experts, teachers, all those working somewhere to form future generations, to collect experience in how some other more developed world is being arranged, so I think that understanding of such needs should be shared here today. For this reason, I believe that the creation of conditions for the development of the knowledge-based economy in Serbia deserves all our support. In that sense, the Visa Facilitation Agreement is one of the necessary preconditions for that, of course, insufficient, but certainly one of the necessary conditions. The agreement is one of the important steps in improving Serbia's reputation and credibility as members of the international community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9959	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natashi Vukkovic. We have five MPs who appear in the Rules of Procedure: Dr Vladan Batic, Srdjan Sajn, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Aleksandra Jerkov and my colleague Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Dr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9960	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226, I request an explanation and notice from both the President of the Assembly and the Government, and this is about the resolution of the National Assembly of July 25th of this year, the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Why? Because Article 8, and Resolution, are scheduled for the Government to report to the National Assembly on all important matters on the internal and international agenda, on the results of the negotiations, on everything concerning fate, the future of Kosovo and Metohija's status. The government doesn't do that. Twenty days ago, on a small door like that, secretly, a document of the negotiating troika of the Contact Group appeared at 14 points. The document is a platform for independent Kosovo, because one of the provisions of the document is that Serbia no longer has physical presence in Kosovo and Metohija, that it is administratively fully restricted, that Kosovo will only make financial arrangements with the IMF and the World Bank in the future, and that the roads of Serbia and Kosovo towards Euro-Atlantic integration will be separated. The government hasn't informed us about it. Last night, through information funds, we learned something that wasn't funny, and it would be sad, which is tragic -- the idea of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status according to the Hong Kong model. If you were underprivileged, I'd say this debate might be unnecessary today, about visa relief and readmission. Some have imagined that Serbia is China and that Kosovo is Hong Kong and then we don't need these topics, but these parallels are really totally analphabetic. Why? Because after hundreds of years, and more than a hundred years, under the rule of the British Empire, Hong Kong returned under the sovereignty of China. Here's the reverse tendency. Secondly, around Hong Kong, everyone agreed, no one can agree on Kosovo. Third, Hong Kong is the world's maritime trade and financial metropolis, Kosovo is one of the most underdeveloped regions. Fourthly, China retained its defence level, i.e. military and foreign affairs, or diplomacy, here in these 14 points Serbia is not allowed to do so. So, I wouldn't be surprised what our negotiators, people at our highest state functions are like if they had offered South Ossetia, Nagorno Karambah, Abkhazia, because this is like a lack of both inventiveness and real solutions, but also responsibilities. Speaking of these issues, it is very interesting that we be answered about these two laws, what is the situation regarding Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija and the visa regime for them, as well as how they solve it, and also the issue of readmission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9961	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. The word has the People's MP Srdjan Shine, advertised by the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225, 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9962	I apologize to all MPs for having to continue this way and ask some questions about this topic. I'm not answering to talk about something 15th, 18th or 20th, but simply, this is a question for the Roma Party, a program question of a couple of excellence, and in that sense, please accept my address. I have one question for the Ministry's representative, which is, which guarantees are needed by our people to have legally acquired assets abroad, so our people who are there at the asylum. At the session of the Council of Europe Parliamentarians clearly heard that some people with handcuffs are coming back here; overnight they arrest and return without anything, simply, remain without what little property they have acquired there, which, you will all agree, is not in line with this law and guarantees provided by international conventions. That is why I once again want to underline – the Roma Party is against the return of people from the European Union. We're against any individual coming back here because people there have better conditions for life, they have social assistance, and it happens to them (that and that little property they acquired there, when they get arrested and come back here overnight) to come back with nothing. I would also like to inform the MPs of some of the experiences we have had with the people returning from the readmission process. A well-known case at the border with Romania, 100 Serbian citizens who returned from the readmission process because they were not integrated, they again wanted to cross the border, because they did not know how to name it; people do not know how to get to the wood, they do not know how to provide food to their children. It's a known case that a man with a family sold the house to go to asylum, and now they're bringing him back and he doesn't know where he's going to stay. Here's another example, an organization that allegedly takes care of people who come back from asylum blackmailing people when they come back, I have an example from Switzerland, they say -- you can get 3,000 dinars of help, because you're agreeing with a representative of that organization. But, reliably, I got word from Vrsec that one girl won't pay because she won't bribe that organization. Then the question arises who takes responsibility for this, whether the state is working organisedly at the level of international agreements or we are now introducing international organisations that are taking bribes for it. So, I conclude, once again, the Roma Party cannot vote for this law. We don't think anyone should go back to the reading process, that people should stay where they are, and Europe has to show responsibility for being ready to integrate those people, in part, where they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9963	The People's Messenger Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9964	So Articles 225 and 226, Rules of Procedure. I just want to continue my exposure, which I just started, because the state claims to be willing to go into a situation like this, complicated, as we've pictured all day in the debate. First of all, I believe that one fact is to be highlighted – it was a time when representatives of the official assembly majority had the right to talk about how to make a strategy, how to make an action plan, and at the moment when the vote on this law, in the next two months, is about to be readmission of 150 thousand people, so all this should have already been over. I ask, what are these state institutions that will take responsibility in two months to receive these people? We know that the reception will be organised by the MUP, and will the MUP frame these people and deal with social problems? And what institutions are they in the state, someone tell me, that will deal with the permanent treatment of these people in our country? So how to resolve the status of so far internally displaced persons. Whether these internally displaced persons, now in Serbia, may be integrated into state institutions, whether they can say their problems and take part in solving their problems. Has anyone said today what these faces will be like to be read; whether they will be refugees, internally displaced faces, or have some third status. What about the Interminister Council, which should have already been formed? If someone is seriously accessing this problem today, he must have prepared all defense mechanisms to accept and solve such a problem. There was a reference to the NIP, the National Investment Plan, what means? The Development Bank of the Council of Europe was mentioned, the Greenfield was mentioned. Did someone come out to tell us whether or not it happened, whether it's a donation, whether it's a loan, and what the conditions, which the money is prepared for this big problem, because every problem has to be solved in cash. Then I wonder, what was done for internally displaced persons in Negotin, does the state even know how many internally displaced persons there are currently in Negotin? Did she make an effort to provide them with any other document other than ID? It's not. Did she get anyone a job? Also, it's not. Did she give anyone contact with the dislocated parent services? Namely, their nearest dislocated home service is more than 200 kilometers from Negotina. People report daily to SPS members to help them travel so they can secure some of their basic rights. Just for the end, another fact, are we all aware that in 2004, the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, then, were in second place in the number of asylum applications in other countries of Europe, and in 2005, in the first place, asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9965	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Jerkov, and then I hope we continue the discussion in order, the people's Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I've reported to advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure for the lies that were made for this speaker. First of all, let me say that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the parliamentary group of Vojvodina MPs will support the visa relief agreement, but we cannot go beyond the fact that the ruling coalition, even when it does the right thing, simply cannot speak the truth and inform citizens about the real facts. It was all caused by the discussion of counterpart Vukkovic from DS-Boris Tadic, who said the plan was to form an office, i.e. a joint office for issuing visas. I wanted to ask where she got the information that it was going to be. I mean, maybe my colleague got confused. There is one joint office, but it's an office at the Belgrade airport, to accept these returnees for which you obviously have no plan whatsoever, no intention to integrate into this society. If you've mixed these two things up, then feel free to say so, and if you want to deceive the citizens of this country, we can't agree to that. The idea existed several months ago, but because of the obvious delays our country has in joining the EU and by not wanting the government of the Republic of Serbia to meet EU conditions, EU countries have made a decision not to form one such office, because they obviously do not have so much confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia. They are not ready to make such a single concession to a country that is in every way trying to conflict with the International Community, to avoid the conditions that the EU is setting. For this reason, again, I would like to ask my colleague Vukkovic to tell us where she got this information and how much it was checked. Please, for once you're telling the truth, you're pushing for the right thing, you do it the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9967	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic, and let Donka Banovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9968	Ladies and gentlemen, the laws that are before us today are presented by the ruling majority as something that is very urgent and very important for the citizens of Serbia, something that needs to be immediately on the agenda at this session. Obviously, more urgent than the creation of the Constitutional Court, as well as a set of laws bound by the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, more important than the many important topics that many in this assembly have advocated and said are very important. I remind you, yesterday, the assembly majority refused to put on the agenda for the urgent process of discussion of the resolution, the SRS girlation of the status of Republika Srpska and our assistance to the people of Republika Srpska, which is currently in very difficult condition. So you're saying that these laws are much more important than all of this, and that we're not talking about the state of Serbian economy and society in general, without talking about Kosovo and Metohija, about not talking about the plans for the implementation of various programmes that our government has, for which the Assembly doesn't know or is notified at all over six months, so it needs to verify what has already been completed. The bill to confirm an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on an easier visa procedure, which is mentioned here with so much bile and so much euphoria, essentially brings nothing spectacularly new to the citizens of Serbia. Of course, not the largest number of Serbian citizens, but one part of citizens who have not had too many problems getting visas before. I don't mind making it easier for these people, but don't present it here as an essential and crucial contribution, and I don't know what it is. We have categories here that, I'll read you some of them, members of official delegations, and they never have any problem going anywhere, business people, company representatives. You know, at least those who understand themselves in the economy, that capital really doesn't know the limits where there's interest, where there's business interest will always be found system. These people have never essentially had a problem traveling or inviting people here to do a serious job with them. The problem is that these jobs are gone or when there are jobs, then there are them with various bribes and corruption. That's the main problem. Furthermore, for crew members and trains, journalists, persons who participate in scientific, cultural and artistic activities, students, students, graduates and teachers, this is an interesting topic. Since I'm interested in talking about the young people they were talking about, and they'll probably talk about other colleagues, it's not a problem for young people at all, of course it's one of the problems, but it's not so much a fundamental problem how to get to that foreign country. The problem is how to get them money for scholarships, for scholarships, for professional training, for teachers, for scientific workers. This is a fundamental problem, because it costs more abroad than it costs in our country. When it comes to athletes, you certainly know how much the quotations cost for various tournaments, international competitions, how much a uniform, one shirt, one shorts, one pair of shoes, a ball, how many times. Here, amongst the MPs there are also active athletes and people who once engaged in sports and know what serious obstacles are to the participation of these people – come these organizations, they probably come to you as well as with MPs, looking for funds, looking for money to go abroad, to play and represent this country. It's a fundamental problem, which that money doesn't have or is forced to rely on the mercy of private sponsors and people to help as much as they can. That's the problem. What's the problem with military and civilian cemetery visits? The problem is that when you have the text that you could read in the paper about our military cemetery in Thessaloniki, which is maintained by an older man whose father and grandfather have maintained it before and who has no heir, so what will happen to our military cemetery in Thessaloniki when that man is, I wish him a long life, but when he dies one day. Why doesn't the state have a solution to that question? Why visit a military cemetery no longer maintained and that won't exist in a few years if the state policy continues like this. It's the result of the ruling majority's policy. This government doesn't make long-term strategies, not real plans, not real programs. Only EU or EU requirements are met here. We should ask ourselves if these are countries that are truly friends of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, these countries openly give statements supporting secession and kidnapping 15% of our territory, Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises whether we are prevented from these laws or from those that protect the interests of primarily citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We understand, of course, that such a law is written like this, a kind of pre-election campaign. The ruling majority parties agree whether it will be this month or that, however, but we understand that the election will be. Now this law should also be shown as a step towards the EU and accession, as a step, and I ask you – what will happen if EU or EU countries recognise independent Kosovo and say that, that is our goal, we want Kosovo to be independent, we want to kidnap Serbia. What will the congregation’s majority say then? Are you going to say, yes, these are our friends, we should continue to work on their dictatorship. I'm sorry that I don't have time to look back on everything we've talked about, the economic sphere, all the harmful agreements we've warned you about, which will break over the back of Serbian citizens. That's what's the real problem. We've been listening here about the urgency of this, and we've had a situation that this morning, around an hour, MPs from the ruling parties are speaking on the Rules of Procedure on various topics. I understand that it must be done by an opposition MP who has no other opportunity to ask a question, but we had a colleague from the ruling party who asked a question this morning – how to implement a reform, or change of the pension system. I was simply fascinated by the government to ask the National Assembly here, as if the opposition were what to do. Gentlemen, you control the government and you have a majority in the Assembly; both ministers and board members, directors, various officials and levers of power. You have the opportunity to propose a bill. You have the opportunity to adopt him in the government, bring him into this congregation and change him. You have every option. This is an interesting topic, given that the pensioner's position in Serbia today is extremely difficult, and I am also talking about civilian and military pensioners. These people were really brought to the brink of misery. We've advocated and we're still in favour of applying the Swiss model of harmonising pensions with salaries, so these pensions would really increase, because now the purchasing power of these people is so low that it's terrifying. That's humiliating. They made those pensions by building this country. That's where we talked even indirectly about the second item of the agenda, about the readmission agreement. Our regime does not ask the question of exiled people, we are not trying to raise those issues that are plagued by Serbian citizens, who are hurting us. I don't know how many thousands of people who really don't have any conditions to be set up here. We are not as a state ready to accept them, we are not ready to accept and solve the problem of those who are already in our country. Have you seen what acceptable camps look like, that temporary accommodation, when people sleep in Polish beds, on mattresses, separated from other cover. The sanitary conditions, the hygiene, the food, so I don't talk. How many of you have gone to such a camp and seen how these people live, and now we're talking about another 50, 100, 200 thousand, it doesn't matter, and one man, who's going to offer him accommodation, who's going to offer him a job, how to support his family, how to truly integrate into our system. We don't have an answer for those questions, because this is another one of those laws, let's get through. No strategy. There's no serious reform. Unfortunately, it is simply amazing to me that neither this government nor the Assembly, since I am primarily an MP, I am sorry that my colleagues do not want to get into the depths of the problem and that the problems of Serbian citizens are really in the first place. When I talked about pensions, it was a frightening lack of the state's interest that as part of bilateral relations, e.g. with BiH and Croatia, solve the problem. Otherwise, people who really have this problem write to us, to exercise their rights, and I am talking about pensioners who have achieved their pension rights in BiH and Croatia, as opposed to paying pensions in relation to what they received under the Government of the Republic of Serbia Regulation. That pension was 50% at first, then 60%, and it reached 70%. They've been receiving so many reduced pensions for 12 years. When our authorities spoke to the authorities of BiH and Croatia, they had no idea they were fighting for it. Now I'm going to read to you how today sounds like the answer that a citizen of ours gets when he makes such a request, for example. BiH. Here, the Federal Institute for Pension-Invalid Insurance of BiH, the gentleman and the one: "Dear Sir, regarding your request to be paid the difference between the pension you received under the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the one you receive from 1. 06. In 2004, from the Bosnian-Herzegovina insurance carrier, we would like to inform you that the Social Insurance Agreement between BiH and the SRJ, today Serbia as its co-excessor, does not provide for the possibility of paying the pension difference, but only a continuation of payment." Then our country tells those citizens to sue the parent fund. With what means to sue the parent fund, to whom to address, which one of these people has the money to hire a lawyer and deal with an expensive and long-term trial? Instead of arguing that these things are being resolved, that the problems of our citizens who should be entitled to differences in pensions, by law, for those 12 years from BiH and Croatia, that our country insists on it every day, we do not have it on the agenda. We have agreements on the agenda that will neither solve anything nor benefit most Serbian citizens. So we invite you to stop doing makeup, to stop doing nothing but mass production of some paper, and then you will say that you have brought 156 agreements, which essentially did not allow citizens to live a better life. If you want, start doing your job, becoming a serious and responsible government, or since you are the ruling majority, press your ministers. If you won't, stand aside and let Serbian radicals take Serbia, make it possible for a better life, for Serbia's citizens to finally see the better and healthier future they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9969	The People's MP Donka Banović has the word, and let Ivana Zečević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9970	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, today we are discussing three very important agreements that are interlinked and conditioned. Although much has already been said, I would like to say a few words about the agreement, which the Republic of Serbia signed with the European Community, on the reading of persons who are illegally staying in their countries. As a result of war destruction, economic collapse and political instability at the end of the last century, the Western Balkans area has become a neural point of Europe, with a view to managing migration flows. In the Balkans, as a result of the war conflicts in Croatia and BiH, there are still several hundred thousand people in refugee status. Out of five Balkan countries, four enter a group of 40 countries with the highest number of illegal immigrants in EU countries. In the context of a number of activities undertaken in the field of combating illegal migration, especially when it comes to the return and acceptance of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of EU countries, bilateral co-operation with 17 countries has so far concluded readmission agreements. The conclusion of a single readmission agreement with the European Community provides conditions for a gradual, organised and institutionalised return of our citizens from Europe, where they are found without the right to stay. These persons were either rejected or suspended from temporary protection granted to them for humanitarian care during the duration of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. A real deal was reached, after almost a year of intensive talks and during four negotiating rounds. All unclear provisions on the return of our citizens have been avoided, which were offered at the beginning of the negotiations. The document accurately identified the situation in which Serbia is obliged to accept the persons mentioned. Serbia is obliged to accept its citizens only if a direct link is established and our responsibility for the illegal stay of these persons in the Western European countries. Serbia undertakes that, at the request of any EU member, it accepts and assumes any citizen who does not meet the legal and other conditions for entry or stay in the country's territory. Serbia will have an obligation to accept spouses and underage children, too, and extramarital children, regardless of their place of birth and citizenship, except when they have an independent right to stay in the country that requires it. Before returning these citizens, the competent authorities of Serbia and the Member States will agree in advance on the date of transfer, the place of entry and the possible escort. Serbia will also accept former SFRY citizens who have not acquired any other citizenship, whose place of birth and residence was on Serbian territory on 27 April 1992. Unfortunately, there are no precise data on the number and structure of the returnees. The lack of data is a serious restriction for any attempt to analyse the problem and plan and propose measures in the interests of the returnees. The lack of data also poses a major problem in assessing threats among the returnees themselves and identifying the most vulnerable. According to the Council of Europe, between 50 and 100 thousand will be returned. Of course, today it was auctioned here and talked about different numbers. However, the interior minister informed us before noon that about 47,000 people are expected to return. So these figures that are mentioned, 100 and 150 thousand, are obviously not true. According to the MUP, just over 17,000 returnees have come to Serbia since 2003. The most people returned from Germany, as much as 70%, and each third returnee was, unfortunately, deported, which means he didn't return willingly. In order to stimulate the return of Western lands, they often use some form of help in exchange for agreeing to a voluntary return. Often, unfortunately, it's about measures that people can't refuse, because otherwise they'll be detained, and soon and exiled, without being able to take the most necessary things with them. There are no specific types of assistance before returning, which would make the return to the country of origin sustainable. Every return, including deportation, I hope that there will be fewer and fewer such cases, must be implemented in a way that guarantees the safety, humanity and dignity of the people returning, and voluntary return is certainly the most desirable form. Upon returning to Serbia, returnees face a number of problems, such as unemployment and poverty, and sometimes even have difficulty achieving their rights to education and education. Even 80% of returnees' children were born abroad, and more than half of them do not speak Serbian, so there is a problem for continuing regular education. Coming to the country, they also face the problem of taking out appropriate documents, sometimes having trouble reporting the place of residence or residence, and therefore having problems, for example, getting a personal card, which also brings back some other problems. So there are problems that Serbia and the relevant institutions must solve as soon as possible. The state has to take care of its citizens' coming return as best possible. Greater funding for the funding of returnees' programmes and for the implementation of the strategy for reintegration of returnees, which exists, needs to be provided. It is necessary to improve the co-operation of various state institutions, different ministries, to create joint teams that will always be there to help facilitate the integration of all returnees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9971	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Mrs Ivana Zecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9972	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we are here today discussing the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the ease of the procedure for issuing visas, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on readmission and persons who are illegally staying and the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation. I can honestly tell you that the people of the titel municipality that I come from, look at this transmission today and wonder at it, can't believe these laws are on the agenda today. They can't believe this assembly has any more important laws than those we're discussing today. Isn't the Constitutional Court more important than these laws and many other laws that solve their existential problems of people than what we're discussing. I have to mention, in my municipality, there are, unfortunately, a large number of people, all those who have lost their jobs in poorly privatised enterprises, such as the Agricultural Combination in the Title, Agrocol, Cyglan, as well as those who worked for four to five thousand dinars in the 'Folder' in the Title without pension and social security. Most pensioners who in our municipality receive an average of five or six thousand dinars, in one half of their pensions, all those unemployed who are unable to get a job and have no chance of receiving social benefits, because at the Social Security Center, say they are capable of work. Furthermore, all those who were still from the ministry last year, Mr. Lalovic, were given the solution to have the right to help and care of another person, and this state was unable to provide funds to pay compensation on the basis of these solutions. All those who do not have the means to be treated in this country, in the Republic of Serbia, let alone abroad, are now wondering who these citizens of this Republic of Serbia have the money to travel for and for whom these laws are passed. We have just heard from colleagues that only 10 to 11% of Serbian citizens have a passport, of course not everyone uses it. Many have not taken advantage of it, they have not traveled at all, nor will they be able to use these privileges, easier to obtain visas. The basic problem with this National Assembly is that it makes laws for a privileged number of people and for a certain category of people. For those who are able to travel, and we have seen from previous discussions that they have already traveled. They're the only ones we're reducing the number of documents to make it simple, since you've discussed it so much, which will be necessary when they're teaching a visa application. In doing so, from your discussion that we have heard so far, you present these laws, that you have signed an agreement with the European Community, as if you have signed with all the countries of this world. What about those citizens who need to travel to other countries that do not belong to the European Community? With all those who have relatives or have some needs in Russia, China, Canada, Australia, not to list everything. This law does not apply to everything, and so you represent it in the congregation as if it solves all the problems of people who need to travel. The highlight was when we heard a colleague who, aboutly, said – let us allow the presidents of the municipalities to travel easier. I can say, I don't know what the other presidents of the municipalities are doing, but the president of the municipality of Titusl, who belongs to the Democratic Party, does nothing but travel. Except for the real cost of our municipality, he spends money from our budget, and he didn't do anything and he didn't contribute a single dollar. We haven't had any use for his travels, no investor has brought in, except we have failed privatized businesses. We haven't seen a new factory that started working in our community. I can tell you that the Democratic Party, in various combinations, has been in power for eight years in the municipality of Sitel. As for the possibility of them traveling, we believe that citizens are quite revolutionized when they hear what the justification for the adoption of this law is. Finally, in order not to repeat everything my colleagues have said, I can tell you that the European Community really appreciates and respects this democratic rule of yours they would probably grant you these privileges and made it easier to get visas even before, and not now after seven or eight years, since 2000 since you've been in power. You wouldn't be relieved to receive visas, so you're being blackmailed by adopting a readmission agreement. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9973	I thank the MP Ivana Zečević. The word is Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9974	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman-in-Office, the distinguished representatives of the interior ministry, the visa-relief agreement between the EU and Serbia is another step towards establishing a visa-free regime, so to the white Schengen list, with the aim of facilitating contacts between people, co-operation and exchange of ideas and exchanges of experiences, which is essential for the continued development of economic, cultural, humanitarian, scientific and all other ties. In this way, we will achieve one of the key EU values, which is freedom of movement for people. The absence of order in front of the embassy and the free pass across the border will finally give our citizens the impression that they belong to the European family of people, whose share they have always been. Visa relief concerns, above all, the reduction in the number of necessary documents to obtain visas with a longer period of validity and a reduction in the fee from 60 euros to 35 euros, but for many, for most categories and for the total removal of those fees. This applies to students, students, graduates, scientists, journalists, doctors, lawyers, business people, members of religious and non-governmental organisations, etc. What is fundamentally important for DS, and in which the parliamentary club is located a convincing majority of young Members, are visa reliefs for our youngest citizens, for students, students, graduates who will be able to travel freely and all they need is a confirmation, i.e. an invitation letter from school or university where they want to go and a student book or a student book without paying a fee, they will be able to travel freely. This is important because, I have repeated it many times so far, over 70% of our young people have never been abroad. It's important, of course, because only one in eight of our citizens has a passport. There's a passport in Pirot every 17 citizens, so I guess this should help these people travel, and the more of these things we do, the more people we'll have with the passport. Finally, unlike all our neighbours, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, which are on the white Schengen list, we are on black. On that blacklist, I'm not going to mention all the countries that I don't want to insult, but we really don't belong here. Readmission is an important issue and one of the main criteria for whether a country will be on a positive or negative list and is its ability to successfully control the illegal immigration of its citizens, or foreigners entering EU territory from its territory. What is this problem for the EU is the fact that every year 100,000 illegal migrants enter its territory. There are so many migrants in the world that if they all gathered together in one place, they could make up the fifth largest nation in the world. Finally, it is clear that Serbia has defined itself as the EU and it is clear that more than two-thirds of our citizens want to join the EU. There's her place. What we need to do is to bring our country and our citizens into Europe before the formal accession of the EU. Today's messages and announcements by the European Enlargement Commissioner and the Serbian government's representative that tomorrow's Stabilisation and Association Agreement will finally be initialled, as another step towards gaining EU candidate status, are indeed encouraging. It is another indicator that Serbia is not moving into the past, that Serbia is moving into the future and that Serbia is on a proper path. I think the citizens of Serbia, with all their problems, have reason to be pleased today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9975	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9976	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and an explanation from you, Mr. President, and from the Prime Minister, when will Parliament and the Government rise to the protection of their institutions from people who are lords of Serbia from the shadows, who have their ministers and who are obviously the majority in the government? What exactly is this about? The topic on the agenda is something that should be the way to European standards, towards the European orientation of this country, but all that is happening to us is the opposite of Europe. The paraphrasing of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement should not now be paralysed. It's an expression of mistrust. It's a prenup. All the serious countries have long signed not a paraphras, but an Association and Stabilisation Agreement, including Albania four years ago. But to return to what I have requested an explanation in accordance with the provisions of Article 226. So the Antimonopoly Commission is at risk. We are witnessing that certain ministers are campaigning against the Commission from day to day. We are witnessing a shameful decision by the Supreme Court on the appeal of the Antimonopoly Commission's decision. It'll be a precedent in court practice. We are witnessing, and we have just received information that is threatening the people of that Commission by one of the ministers in the government, Mr Bubal, and the Secretary General, Mr Dejan Mihajl, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, who has been voted by most of the ministers in the government, your members, as Secretary General of the Government. We are witnessing the unconventional heist on Mrs. Verica Barac and the fight against the President of the Council on the fight against corruption. We are witnessing a hickey at the Council of Conflict of Interests and again advocacy, unconventional, Minister Bubal and some others, in connection with some of the Council's decisions. Well, Minister Dinkic said the night before last at Studio B that members of the Antimonopoly Commission had no idea and they had no idea they were going home. More than three years ago, he also led such a heist against the Securities Commission. Everyone resigns, she still works, and these Commissions and these tips are something that, if we want to join European integration, we need to keep as little water in our palms. It happens, unfortunately, exactly the other way around, and that is not the way to Europe, but the way away from Europe and from European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9977	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9978	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Today, the LDP parliamentary group comes up with information that two Serbian government men are putting a terrible pressure on members of the Competition Protection Commission. That information we have is about the pressure being made by Minister Predrag Bubalo and Secretary General Dejan Mihajlov. They're putting pressure on the Competition Protection Commission to change their decision, and it's about the merger of C's and C's. So it is the Supreme Court's disputed decision a few days ago, more precisely since 19 October, with the commission's recommendation being annulled. Today, while we are sitting here, the President of the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs Verica Barac, held a press conference, which drew attention, too, to the terrible pressure of certain ministers from this government on the Council for Combating Corruption and said many more things. We invite the president of the National Assembly to examine whether this is exactly what we are pointing to and call on the Assembly to take certain steps. So I'm going to try in a minute or a half, how long I have left, to try to show you what's been going on in the last ten days and what these claims are about, both the members of these two state bodies and LDP MPs in the past few weeks. So Mladjan Dinkic first opened a water factory owned by Miroslav Miskovic. Then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic opened a shopping centre owned by Miroslav Miskovic, or the company "Delta". At the same time, the head of the DS legal committee is a lawyer for Miroslav Miskovic, who sues a state authority for something he did. Finally, today's decision by Predrag Bubal to amend the decision to set up a branding council for Serbia and thus enable Milky Forcan to lead the council. These are all things that happen at the same time as the Serbian Supreme Court annuls the Anti-Monopoly Commission's decision to protect competition and the Anti-Corruption Council, apparently all of us. When we go out, we see there's a monopoly in this country, we don't need the Supreme Court to cancel decisions in a strange way. We also want to know from the court why the Serbian Supreme Court did not ask for a disputed record, but used one legal gap and annulled the decision to ban the merger of these two companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9979	Thank you. May I ask you something, Mr. Andric and Mr. Batic and all of you who have been reporting to the Rules of Procedure in the last two days, just opening this topic. I don't care about Miroslav Miskovic, and I feel bad about what's going on, but why are you campaigning your party using a pay phone and repeating the same questions over and over again? So if you've asked the ministers a question, you can ask them for an answer, if you've referred a question to me, I've just given you an answer, but you keep answering and asking the same question. Don't do that, this congregation has to do a job that, after all, and here, this congregation has to finish its work. Will you give me an answer now? Here you go. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9980	Mr. Dulic, in the last few days, there's been a lot of anxiety from that presidential post, which is being broadcast towards the MPs. We will vote in favour of a bill allowing visa relief. It's our contribution to this law, but don't expect us to keep quiet about the things that are happening in this society, because you can't agree on the election for five days, and then you're still pushing us to teaton and blackmailing us here that we have to honor some deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9981	I know, Mr. Andric, arrange a press conference and come out with your political views. Do not use the congregation pay phone. That's just my advice to you, because you can do it. 225th and 226th to report as many times as you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9982	Mr. Dulic, you came very briefly from a democratic speaker of the assembly to a president of the assembly who did not give the MPs a word because he thought it was important or not. Let us choose our own way of leading our own party and our own personal parliamentary mandates. Believe me, you have no right to fall into my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9983	I have the right to point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9984	You're breaking into my word again, Mr. Dulic. Wait till I'm done, then call me back, and tell me what you got.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9985	All right, here you go. You have a minute to talk about breaking the Rules of Procedure. I interrupted you, so I turned the time back on and carefully measured, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9986	If we can finish this dialogue. So what we think is that it's important and more important to what we're talking about, than what you'd like us to talk about what you wouldn't want anyone to hear. What you don't care about the Delta, Mr. Dulic's problem is, it's this country's problem. Because you as the ruling majority don't have the right to care. We opposition MPs suggest that Miskovic's ministers and Miskovic Deputy Prime Minister sit in this government. When the state institution, which you are responsible for, and all of us here, each of us here, says that Miskovic is breaking the law, you can't ignore it and wait for us to get tired of calling. You can, but you won't solve the problem that way. Of course we'll keep calling as long as it happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9987	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9988	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once upon a time I was well-intentioned to say that you were intrinsically untalented for the work you were doing. Article 226, and now Article 27, because you, Mr. President, are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and not so untalented, and besides incompetent and irresponsible, which you have shown, to give lessons, to get in the word. In no word do I speak for anyone, but as MP of the DHSS, because you mention one party, here is another party, so on behalf of the DHSS, I did not mention the company 'Delta', neither today nor today, nor did I mention the name of Miroslav Miskovic. I reacted phenomenally. If Mr. Speaker of Parliament, who you are a member of the DS, you don't mind countless times being told by this speaker that Zoran Djindjic was a mobster, that he was the head of the mob government, and you don't mind when someone says that one company has a monopoly, that they are attacking the Council for Combating Corruption, the Council for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, that the Securities Commission, then, Mr. President, is no place for you. And it's time for you to admit it. Your frustrations, your ignorance and your anxiety can be treated elsewhere, not in the word of the MPs. There is a Rules of Procedure, as it is, we call upon it. Instead of answering me, instead of telling me – a session of Parliament or the relevant committees and the bodies of Parliament will be scheduled to determine who is who offends one institution of Parliament, if you do not want to mention the Government institutions, you do not mind that someone mentions it, and you did not mind what I said earlier. Now, that's immoral! It's immoral, Mr. President. Zoran Djindjic is turning in his grave for this reason. So we have to stand in the way of the attack and the hare of individuals on institutions, which should be a mirror of Serbia on the way to Europe, and these institutions that we mentioned are. Imagine the humiliation that people are suffering at the head of these institutions, Verica Barac, Mrs Dijana Bayalovic, threats, insults, humiliations, lawsuits, criminal charges – why? Because they tried to point out some irregularities in this society and in this government, which is not for the sake of some petty interest. So, please, don't do that in the future, and if you can't do your job, try the resignation. It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9989	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9990	Mr. President, Rule 225. On the day of the meeting of the Committee on Trade of the Republic of Serbia, it was a month ago, members of the ruling majority voted on that Committee on the Commission Report on the Prevention of Competition: the DSS supported the Report, the G17 and the DS voted against the Report. I've come to the Rules of Procedure to point out a major problem that will follow from the session of this committee. You could've stopped that. This is about a different view, political or otherwise, of an important problem in the country. The Commission found that some companies and some trading entities and others have a position that provides a monopoly position and a concentration on the market. So that's what the Commission set up. One party of the ruling coalition accepted this as a final argument and supported it. The two parties in the ruling coalition have the opposite view. Please, Mr. President, this is a very serious question. The issue has now raised a number of political and other issues in the country. I remind you that whoever has a monopoly position in any area or who is allowed to concentrate on the market in this way is in a privileged position, and that his business is contrary to all the normal principles of the economy that exist in the world. You can stop this. It is necessary, you have, Mr. President, the business authority, to schedule or in agreement with the chairman of the Trade Committee, a session of the Committee and discuss these matters there. If the problem here is that the former government has introduced three of the former members of the SPI and today the ruling parties have the need to resolve this issue differently personally, they should agree and come up with a proposal to recommence the Commission, although it is contrary to the law. They were elected for a number of years, the authorities were Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Economists and Serbian Lawyers and they used their rights, so the government of the Republic of Serbia did so under the law and thus received the majority of the SPO. That's the real truth about this. So you have the strength, I hope you have to discuss this, because this will block Parliament in the next few weeks, and there is no need for that. Either someone makes a monopoly or doesn't. Either violates the law or does not violate it, it should be established by the Committee of the Assembly and this committee. I suppose we have confidence in colleagues who are members of the Committee and we must also have trust in the Commission which is an independent regulatory body.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9991	I call on the chairman of the parent committee to schedule a session to discuss this matter. I hope it will then move this debate from its plenary session to the Committee and that everything that is disputed will be determined there. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Andric again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9992	Articles 225 and 226. First, thank you, Mr. Dulic, for having scheduled that session, for inviting the board president to schedule that session. We think it's very important that such a session be held at this point. What I'd like is to ask two questions now. First, is it true that Minister Predrag Bubalo changed the decision to set up a Council for the Promotion of Serbia and that the new Statute and the Council's decision to set up the Council to prevent conflicts of interest, in such a way that, with the changed powers of this council, he would allow Milky Forcan to lead the Council? That's the first question. The second question, two weeks ago, I asked the Secretary-General of the Government to deliver an official note from the meeting on which Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Miroslav Miskovic, Mr. Misa Beko and we don't know who else, we suspect that he was also Slobodan Radulovic, on the purchase of the "C Market". It was then that some sort of a memorandum of co-operation was signed. We think that MPs must know who and how they cooperate. Since the meeting was held in the government, we are sure that there is an official note about the meeting and we ask that it be multiplied and delivered to all MPs. One more thing, I think we can all be quiet here now and wait to stop talking about it, but what we have no right to, as you said, we don't care about Mr. Miskovic. That, Mr. Dulic, is why our citizens pay everything two or three times as much. That's why we don't care about Miroslav Miskovic. We are not personally interested in him, we think about him, each of us, but he does not have the right to support from Djelic, Bubal, Milosavljevic, Kostunica, Tadic, Mihajlov, Nikitovic, all those who rule Serbia. He doesn't have that right. If there's no one else to say it, here, we'll say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9993	The word has a folk MP, Zorica Stevanovic, and let Dejan Stojljkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9994	Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to take the opportunity and this payphone to inform you that the transfer of the status conference from The Hague, related to Dr Vojislav Seselj, will be postponed at 21 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially you who make up the assembly majority and who will vote for all these agreements, it is simply an incredible tone to me that you have discussed today and are trying to defend everything that is negative in these agreements. It was an incredible intonation, your high voice, and a tone and a struggle, and I suggest you pull in your claws, cut your nails and stop scratching more, be realistic with the citizens of Serbia, do what's real. You should say that these agreements will not do Serbia's citizens any good, that what your mentors have put on the table and that you have to listen to, and believe me, all the citizens who are deported will be dreary for them every day, and every dream nightmare when they return to Serbia. Regarding all these points of the agenda, I would like to start my presentation like this -- once a state of Serbia-Montenegro, and I would continue, again, and one state would disappear from the political scene by the political actors who are now leading these two states. Since 1998, Serbia has signed readmission agreements with 15 European countries. Since 2003, the European Union has sent more than 23 thousand requests to Serbia for the return of our citizens who are illegally staying in countries that extend their arms to embrace Serbia. Last year alone, about 2,000 of our citizens were expelled from Germany, and over 3,000 people are being led as political asylum seekers, where the highest percentage of Roma are 43%, Albanians 37% and Serbs were 2.5% in this case. Regardless of these figures and data, Serbia should be expected to open the door for nearly 100,000 of our citizens, including 50,000 Roma. Most of these citizens feel this way of returning them is, in fact, coerced. It is necessary to consider providing various types of assistance to these citizens for faster integration into society. None of them even know where he's going, where he's going to live. Will you perhaps be making some rank lists and by what criteria will you rank our citizens who are illegally staying in the countries of the European Union? The number of users on the screen will be significantly higher. The soup kitchen will have more users than ever before. You will increase the number of poor, and you will create more social cases, a family with no roof over their heads. Will you increase the number of collective centres for the accommodation of these people, who will live in conditions that are beneath the dignity of the human race? Many of them came to those countries during Serbia's criminal bombing. They wanted to avoid NATO aggression. Most of them lived in the territory of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. In the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, the Government of the Republic of Serbia says that the need and consistency of the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying and on the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the eased procedures for issuing visas, which are indicative of bilateral agreements, as reportedly the Agreement with the Republic of France, is jointly discussed in the National Assembly, and that they should almost start to apply at the same time, are the reasons why you propose to adopt this law by an emergency procedure. So, in order to facilitate visa procedures for certain categories of citizens, not all Serbian citizens, the Republic of Serbia must sign a readmission law. By confirming the Agreement, signed on behalf of the Council of Ministers of the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro by Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, Serbia undertakes to accept all persons who are illegally staying in the countries of the European Union, or the Republic of France. This implies that accommodation, work, the right to education, treatment, etc. should be provided for all who will be deported under the provisions of this Agreement. Can the Republic of Serbia provide that? Today, Serbia has the most unemployed, those who would like to have any job and safe source of income. In Kosovo and Metohija, houses and properties, burned down and destroyed, cemeteries are defiled, they have nowhere to go and candles to their dead. Where will those who will be deported by this agreement be placed? What will they live on, how will they be educated, treated? You'll have to answer that. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the part relating to the assessment of the necessary financial resources for the implementation of this law says: "The implementation of this law does not require the involvement of funds to finance the Republic of Serbia." How is that possible? Where are these people going to come back and who's going to build their houses? Who's gonna provide them with a job and guarantee their safety? Today, security is not guaranteed in Kosovo and Metohija, nor are current residents of non-Albanian nationality guaranteed. Since 2000, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done nothing to protect the non-Albanian population and create normal conditions for the lives and work of its citizens. The law on the confirmation of this Agreement will not do any good to returnees, or deportees. There will be new problems, your so-called. Friends will solve their problems, and Serbia will get even bigger problems. Besides, nothing good, and we can't expect it. You're going to have to get serious. I only see salvation in the new elections and win the SRS. I would take advantage of this moment, since there is no Mr. Jocic, when we discussed citizenship, I asked him to solve the Smiljanic family problem, which is currently located at the refugee centre in Sisevo, near Nis. He promised he'd do it, and I don't have any answers until today. So the problem is citizenship. If he doesn't remember what it was like, there are congregation videos. Have him consult with the Commissioner for Refugees and Displaced Faces, and I'd like to hear back from him. Believe it isn't difficult, and these people will mean a lot to them to solve their personal problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9995	According to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the Trade Committee, Nebojsa Stefanovic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9996	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I wasn't in the O.R. because some citizens came to us to protest some privatisations, but that's another topic. Since I'm the chairman of the committee responsible for trade and tourism, since I haven't heard, I've heard from my colleagues, I don't want to turn out to be running away from it, I'm just asking you to formally set up a reasoned request for a session, and I'm going to schedule a session of the Committee. So we want to talk about all these issues, but I just want to inform the National Assembly that we already had a report from the Antimonopoly Commission at the previous session of the Committee. In front of all their colleagues when they made some remarks. There were colleagues from all parties, literally from all parties, when we made some remarks that they were unhappy with the authorities' relationship with them. When they made remarks that they had no good working conditions, I invited them, since they had never spoken to the Assembly until then, and it has been several months since, there has been a stenographic and tone record of everything that I'm saying, to turn to us as a resolute committee, to turn to the National Assembly, that in any way, privately, if we need to meet, we need to get in touch to explain what's going on. I just want to let you know that, unfortunately, it hasn't happened today. I want to say that I do not have any relevant information, and I would like to know what is happening so that I could, because the SRS does not have a majority on that committee, call and inform the other members of the Committee that they can attend this session. I'm giving you a request, in the end, because there's no television transmission anymore, so that we can resolve this situation, to act like this formally. Here, in the course of tomorrow, if all this is resolved, we can schedule a session of the board. I don't think that's a problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-06-0.u9997	Thank you. You can get a written request from me, or a request for the appointment of that committee. So, Mr. Batic, I may be intrudingly untalented, but I'm just trying to keep order here in the O.R., trying to get the topics that you've opened to be solved on the committees in charge, not in the plenary session. It was my only intention, I didn't want to harass any of you, insult you or know what. Since we've been over 1800 hours, we interrupt the session, it's tomorrow at 1:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that none of the MPs have reported any prevented him from attending the session. We move to the 1-3rd item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE SERBIA CONCERNATION OF THE SERBIA AND THE EC ON THE EASY PROCESS FOR VIS, READMISSION AND SCG AND FRANCUSION ON RETURNING AND ACCOMMODATION OF THE FACE IN THE NERREGULARY SITUATION (jointly one-stop-species) The word has a National MP, Dejan Stojljković, and let Jovan Damjanović be prepared.
