ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4045	THE FOURTH EXCELLENT SESSION (First Day of Work) on June 29, 2007 (The session began at 18.35 pm. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that the meetings are attended by 224 MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 116 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Pesic, Natasa Micic, Nenad Bogdanovic, Milos Jevtic, Dragan Vujadinović and Zarko Korac. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session exclusively for Friday, as well as within the deadline set in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly, to respect the reasons for the adoption of the Emergency Act, as soon as possible, to consider the draft law amending the Law on State Servants, which the Government submitted. For the fourth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, at the request of the 96 MPs, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on civil servants We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on civil servants You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds; the SS parliamentary group one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-NS parliamentary group Dr Vojislav Kostunica 56 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group G17 plus 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS parliamentary group 19 minutes and 12 seconds; the LDP group 13 minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - SVM - List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley seven minutes and 12 seconds; the Vojvodjan group of MPs LSV, SVM six minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, in accordance with Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would also like to inform the Assembly that the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandar Vukic, has announced that an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for this part of the agenda is MP Zoran Krasic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4047	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, according to which the MP has the right to request an explanation and notice from the President of the National Assembly. On 28 May of this year, the president of the National Assembly said in a show on Radio Subotica that the time had passed for national minorities' parties and that the time had come to finally win those parties in Subotica who no longer care about the rights of members of national minorities. This is an insult to us Subotics, members of the national minorities. I think it is even a demeaning of the president or party whose president is sitting right in the ranks of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club. After that, the president of our party, SVM President Mr. Istvan Pastor, sent a letter to the National Assembly on 1 June to apologize primarily to all citizens who were offended by this statement and, on the other hand, to admit that he made a mistake. Unfortunately, the president of the National Assembly did not do that after 28 days. He didn't find it appropriate to answer the letter from the president of our party. I now question the president of the National Assembly - whether he believes that it is in line with the rules of democratic behaviour that the president of the National Assembly, not 28 days after the letter was sent by the president of the most significant party, the largest or most numerous national minorities in Serbia, is not responding to the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4048	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared. Here you go. (Laslo Varga: And the explanation? You'll get a written explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4049	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to find a foothold for this position both in Article 90 and in Article 226. Namely, we have just begun the Fourth Session of the National Assembly. Half of June, we were informed that the fourth session would take place immediately after the end of the third session, but with a different agenda point, with a agenda point to discuss the confidence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I fully agree with the President's explanation, although it would be good if he had mentioned that argument before me, which he stated in the written material. I don't mind if the parliamentary groups that launched this initiative with the president of parliament have made an agreement that implies a brief prolonging of the debate on this agenda point, in order to comply with the law and avoid breaking the applicable law on civil servants. What's the problem? The problem is that we as a parliamentary group, as representatives of citizens, which as head of the LDP, president of the LDP, and as a citizen, have said very clearly several times that I will respond to political issues, which cannot be marginalised in the work of parliament, which is only important in our daily life, during the debate to Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. We're not at a chance to do that today. Because of the atmosphere in society, we don't want to talk about it. But we also don't want to make this atmosphere worse, the campaign that's being led against us, the same means and the same way that it's characteristic of those who run that campaign. I would like to join the request of fellow SPS MPs, who more than a week ago asked Special Prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic - to inform this parliament of the dramatic circumstances that burden our daily life, which relate to the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I believe that this truth must be important to all MPs and that it is important to each MP. Instead of responding in front of parliament, we received a response in the media. The prosecutor kept quiet for a long time, and then he talked in such a way that it was better if he kept quiet. What has been done in the last week has disrupted the country's political atmosphere so much that today as LDP (the President warns the speaker in time) we want to talk about this atmosphere in the Assembly, talk about politics in this assembly, and solve political problems with political means, not the way these problems have been solved in the past, not the way they were solved on 12 March 2003 or how someone would want to solve them today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4050	Time, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4051	I'd like to ask you for a little tolerance, which would certainly make this debate more meaningful and shorter. I can go back to my place, so I'd like to go back to the Rules of Procedure. But I don't think any of the MPs will mind hearing our argument, which will be shorter and clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4052	I'm sorry, but I can't grant you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4053	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4054	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, go ahead. Then the National MPs Balint Pastor, Zarko Obradovic, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4055	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with what my predecessor said. Serbia doesn't have a state prosecutor today. It's the only country in Europe that doesn't have a state prosecutor. The capital of this country doesn't have a state prosecutor. There is a special prosecutor for organised crime, and he is completely unauthorized, against the law, although the case has been declared an official secret, fulfilling the desire of a political party, hints at the possible outcome and possible epilogue of what he has labeled as the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Today I was at Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic's and I drew his attention, and I was second on the occasion that I was interested in the fate of my applications against Mladjan Dinkic and Aleksandr Tijanic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4056	I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, just for the record...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4057	For record only, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. We are looking for an explanation of why these things are explained to the public through the media, unauthorized, and not in parliament by the MPs. At least the minister of justice could have come here and explained what was going on. So Mr. Radovanovic violated his powers. I turned his attention to the fact that the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic is one mosaic that has more dice and starts not in 2001, but in 2000, to examine how some of the "White Book" figures, which are no longer living, provided rallying by Vojislav Kostunica. How come those people who died in Meljak, Kum and Shiptar were during an inauguration at the security of Vojislav Kostunica on October 7th 2000. How come... [[Sagar.]] Can you restrain these unbridled MPs? How did President Vojislav Kostunica, then president of the SRJ, unauthorizedly retain the position of head of the Resor State Security Radet Markovic, under whose authority were the Red Berets. Radeta Markovic, who is the head of the most monstrous crimes in this country. You know what Mr. Radovanovic told me: he admitted that he was wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4058	Time, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4059	Thank you, and I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-29-0.u4060	Thank you. We'll stop here. I'm setting a break. Continuing Tuesday at 10.00 p.m. Thank you very much.
