ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6128	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I have reported that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I will inform you of the events within your jurisdiction and ask you why you are not responding under the provisions of the laws giving you authority. You weren't here yesterday, so you weren't in a position to hear from your colleague, Marton. He advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and pointed out the difficult situation in the municipality of Zrenjanin, where the government of the Republic of Serbia had imposed a forced administration as early as 16 November 2006, formed the municipal council, and here it has been for almost 10 months now, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, did the same job, only changed the members of the council. It is interesting that although you have been President of the National Assembly for more than three months and a few months, you have not used the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which gives you the opportunity to call a local self-government unit after a certain time has passed. Namely, in the Zrenjanin Municipality Assembly, the government formed an Interim Bigger on 16 November, and then the composition of the bodies was established in relation to three DSS members, one New Serbia member and one SPS member. They were members of the then ruling coalition. Meanwhile, as is known, republican elections have also been held, we did not have a constitutional assembly in terms of the election of the leading people, and thus the president of the National Assembly was unable to call the elections. However, since the new assembly has chosen Mr. Dulic as president of the National Assembly since then, there is absolutely a possibility that, by respecting the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which gives the president of the National Assembly the authority to call elections for the council members of the municipality, there was a legal possibility for Mr. Dulic to call a election for the Zrenjanin municipality assembly, the election of council members. The government of the Republic of Serbia changed the composition of that body in early June, and now, of course, it has inserted into the Temporarily Greater and G17 Plus. A new relationship was made and simple, respecting, of course, some of their internal proportions, and we said that the government was formed on that party principle. It is interesting here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that the composition of the provisional bodies must be appropriate to the party and national structure of the council of the Assembly. The government of the Republic of Serbia here did not respect the party structure, it simply left out the proposal, i.e. the composition of this body, members of those parties represented. It's just one side of the story and it shows unfortunately these double archeologists of the government. The other side of the story is there's been lawlessness in that municipality for 10 months. If local elections, as announced by the minister, are held in March, people, it will be that nearly 16-17 months five people manage a unit of local self-government that has several tens of thousands of inhabitants and of course so many more people who can vote. Mr. Dulic, I ask that, in accordance with the law and powers that you have, you call the election for a local self-government unit, because there really is no reason not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6129	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic came forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the moment this session begins, the Zemun Municipal Police Committee is seeing the OUP Zemun because for the third time in this year, glass has been broken. I'm asking the police minister to finally find those vandals who do it, because I'm afraid if my members, who cut them out of their pockets for those windows, will find they won't need you, they'll need an ambulance. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if this is a pre-election campaign, if this is a way of political action of individual parties in the municipality of Zemun, just because the municipality of Zemun is the second time, and will give God after these local elections and the third time, in power in the municipality of Zemun, the SRS invites you to fight with political means. Don't break it anymore, break it. First of all, it's not very democratic, at least in the world, here it is. After all, the authority that comes by burning down the Assembly, the parties that come by burning the Assembly to power, is normal to expect such a thing from them. I demand that the minister of police be investigated as soon as possible and to determine who is doing this. I also warned some of the heads of the district committees in Zemun. Don't let us solve that question. Thirty-thirty-thousands cost glass, members of the municipal board out of their pockets pulling money. I think it's about time, twice you've made an insight, here's the third time. Give us some results or resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6131	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people, Nikola Žutić, and then the messenger of the people, Milorad Buha, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6132	Ladies and gentlemen, Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. When it comes to hatred for Serbs, it is not even about profit in trade with some Croatian firms. The initiative to continuously strengthen hatred for Serbs among the Croatian people and beyond has also created a suitable text on the cover of the current Croatian traditional paprinjak cake. I'd take the opportunity to read what it says on that "peaceful cake." ''By ingredients - honey, nuts and pepper, pepperpot, as a traditional Croatian dish, it is really contradictory, like all of Croatia's history, a sweet-paprina bite for many foreign appetites; how many alien conquerors through the centuries, as well as these most recent, present-day aggressors, have reached for this delicious bite, involved in the best possible ratio of Central Europe and the Mediterranean, severing for a sweet fatherklin, and to us ourselves, at a meal, our traditional Croatian paparazzi. "Even August Shenoa is mentioned in this traditional Croatian cake. So, one whole history story. This Croatian cake promotes even the Croatian airline "Croatia Airlines"; foreign travellers can read about the historical sufferings of Croats in the fight against the freedom of the wicked Serbs, occupiers, conquerors, who, as a remethyling factor, have disrupted the peaceful, gentle Croatian people. However, the Croatian state, which was created at the crime of genocide against the Serb people, continues to provoke the Krajina Serb people, but also our passive and inert state. It seems that the genocide of Croatia, which committed numerous crimes during the 20th century, was not enough physical destruction of Serbs, but continues to be carried out by etocide and culture, through Goebbels' lies about the Croatian geopolitical space, from which militant Serbs were toddled. The historical truth is just the other way around, because it has been scientifically proven that southern and western Serbian countries range from Albanian mountains to northern Istria, and from the Adriatic islands to Drava. By the mid-19th century, so-called The Croats were not in today's Croatian countries: Istria, Dalmatia, Slavonia, Krajina, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why does the Serbian state not protect the truth about Serbian historical spaces, a Serbian tradition adopted by the international nation of Croatia. Why doesn't this country fight a lie about so-called. Croatian historical space, so-called Croatian, Croatian, Serbian scientists, Croatian, historical figures, bookstores, music and so on. In the end, we see that the old Serbian cake is also translated into an old Croatian dish. I ask the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Diaspora, the MIP to address these issues of the abduction of Serbian tradition and culture from the aggressive nation of Croatia. I ask them how they will protect the Serbian historical and cultural space from the Croatian unremarkable vandal abduction through pseudo-history propaganda inscriptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6133	The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to refer my question to the Government and the Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia. According to data and information that can be read on the Finance Ministry site, Serbia received $4.8 billion in poverty reduction between 2000 and 2006. In this year, only 500m euros were planned for this purpose, and total ministries plan to make about 700m euros. My parliamentary question concerns the government, let's see what the ministries have been sharing these funds. As for the Commissioner for Refugees, let's see how much funds the Commissioner has received, for which purposes they have been spent, which are users of these funds and to conduct a year-by-year review. The second issue concerns the participation of the former Yugoslav bank, which is currently in bankruptcy. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has the data that the former Yugoslavia, which is currently in bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings, singled out $600m in 1977 and participated, through founding capital, in the formation of the Zagreb Bank's basic bank, which lives today. We're asking for the fate of these funds. According to certain economic experts, who have dealt with this problem, the total funds on the main and through interest ranged around two billion euros. This issue concerns the Government and the Republic Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6135	National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, the main position of the SRS is that the state of Serbia must through law provide every member of the Serbian people, wherever they live in the world, with the right to acquire citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if it so wishes. This time again draws attention to the legislator of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people. It means the republic of all Serbs wherever they live. The basic provision, which should contain the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, is that every member of the Serbian people, from Canada to Australia, has the right to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if that is what he wants. Accordingly, the SRS believes that any member of the Serb people, who does not live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can make a written statement that he is considered a member of the Serb people and wants to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, can also give through the competent diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad. I've been given the government's explanation for the amendment I submitted to Article 8 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, and I have to admit that my argument is extremely illogical and I can't understand it. Among other things, the government said in its argument - ''the amendment is not acceptable and because Article 52 refers to the regulation of citizenship for persons who have a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has no grounds for submitting requests and statements and by means of diplomatic or consular representations. '"I guess the government didn't want to understand the meaning of our amendment. In fact, the amendment is quite clear. Those Serbs living abroad make a statement through a competent diplomatic or consular representation. Those who live in the Republic of Serbia and do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, say to the interior ministry. The amendment is quite clear. So those Serbs who do not have a residence in the Republic of Serbia should give their statement to the competent diplomatic or consular representation in the country they live in. So the government had to adopt this amendment. The amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and is in the spirit of the law that is proposed. I think this is just to seek the reason that the Republic of Serbia does not adopt a basic civilization principle, that members of the majority people, the constituent people, by whom the state is called, have the right to acquire the citizenship of the country in which they live. I draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the practice that exists in Croatia. Since 1990, Croatia has given the right to every Croatian living in the world to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. Tudjman's Neostavic regime gave Croatian citizenship to former war criminals from World War II. The worst Ustashas received citizenship from the Republic of Croatia. I draw attention to the government that in the world, in Canada, in the United States, Australia, there is a large number of decent Serbian antiquities living in Western Europe, who fought in World War II for Serbia, for freedom, for Orthodoxism and were on the side of Western democracies. The decision by the communist authorities after World War II took away these people's citizenship. Some of them are still alive. It is now a unique opportunity for the Republic of Serbia to repay its historical debt to these people, to give them their citizenship back and must allow them to make a statement, that they are considered members of the Serb people, can also submit through competent diplomatic and consular representations. The amendment is quite clear, in line with the Constitution, and I call on all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament and MPs from the assembly majority to declare this amendment, to support it, because now it is a unique historic opportunity for the Republic of Serbia to stand in line with civilised states and to allow all Serbs living in the world to gain the right to have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6137	Anyone else want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as part of the debate on this amendment, I would like to make my remarks and suggestions on the whole concept of this amendment law and amendments and try to further convince you of the arguments that you would change the will that you did not present in the bill. The careful reading of the bill concludes that the government wanted to throw out specifics of the Member States, Montenegro, to adapt to the new Serbia, Serbia that now exists, but also wanted to allow the citizens of Montenegro, who had a registered residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the day of the declaration of independence, of course, if the citizen submits a written statement that he is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and submits a request for enrolment in the register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We reacted to this in public in agreement with the Serbian list of Montenegro and tried to convince the public of Serbia, as well as the government of the Republic of Serbia, that a law should finally be passed that regulates the citizenship of Serbs, because Serbia has, by way of other people's will, political irresponsibility and us, and in particular, Montenegro's leadership, become an independent state, beyond some of its major advocates. And we need to regulate the final issue of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Our basic idea is that every Serb, anywhere in the world, whose citizenship he has, has the right to, say that he is considered a Serb and a request for entry into a citizen's book, becomes a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Not to convince you that this is the practice of almost all countries in the world, and that Serbia should be ahead of us, since no one has ever informed us how many of us there are, where we are and since we are never yet emigrated, diaspora or what you will call it, allow at last one piece of paper to gain the citizenship of Serbia, the state to which they and all their descendants belong forever. Then the government again cowardly, as you always do, persuaded one of the DSS-NS MPs to write amendments to the bill submitted by his government and to completely amend the concept of the law, to unmistakably adapt it to the requirements of the SRS, but to remain inconclusive, because you never go to the end. Why aren't you brave once at last, to go out for this pay phone and tell me what your concept of running the state is? I cannot believe that the government submits a bill that says only Montenegrin citizens who have a residence in Serbia can gain Serbian citizenship, and then accept that all Serbs can get Serbian citizenship, but not in the way the SRS has suggested, so we will now seek some technical remarks on the SRS proposal. What is most absurd in all of this, in the reasons for our amendments, the government says -- as a legal follower of the state of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to former citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, and in your law you throw it out everywhere -- Serbia-Montenegro or other member states. What do you have to do if you're breaking the law of that obligation? There is no more mention of Serbia's obligation to a former Serbia-Montenegro citizen. The government is cynically convincing us that we owe all citizens of the former Serbia-Montenegro as a legal follower to ensure citizenship. What's the point? You know very well that the SRS will not be against this amended bill either, since, in part, you are making some people who think of Serbia and who know that everyone in the world is equal, but that the state must separate its citizens. Again, you know very well that our resistance to such laws, two-way, vague, hazy, will not be decisive that the law is not passed. We're just warning you, working by leading the country hard, bold and determined. We had Serbia and Montenegro. Most citizens, on some conditions for a referendum there in Montenegro, decided that we would no longer be together, expressed a huge amount of hatred for Serbia. That hatred is manifested day and day. The last attack on the SPC, through a bishop of Milesevski, is a sign of what Montenegro thinks of Serbia. Who are you to offer, say, Milo Djukanovic the citizenship of Serbia? Why do you underestimate him? Why are you insulting him? He ran away from it like a devil from the cross. Accept those who want us. We want Serbs from Montenegro, they want to be citizens of Serbia, they want to feel like they're in Serbia and they're not guilty that we split up. They've invested everything, business, reputation, estate, fate and their children, to publicly show how much they want us to live together, and now we're going to level them with those who've made a big commitment not to live together anymore. You must give encouragement to those who are fighting for Serbia, because it is not all the same as the one who is fighting for our country or the one who is destroying our country. That's the concept you should have accepted. No shame, this Mr. Petkovic could have submitted an amendment identical to ours so that you would have accepted it and we wouldn't have gone out for a pay phone. How many times have you had that ex-post mind, after three or four months you've changed the law in accordance with the amendments we've endured. After all, the law on local self-government, which Mr. President of the Assembly is silent about, and plans public elections, this law on local self-government will look like you accepted our amendments when you passed the previous Law on Local Self-Government. You'll see that everything will be the same, and I wish you'd accepted it three years ago. It's not worth it. It's a lot of money. Accept well-intentioned suggestions. This law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is not bad now, but it is not good, it is not the best. Why did we point out in the Constitution that Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and other citizens who live evenly and enjoy all the benefits that the state can give them? Why are we talking to a diaspora, who may be able to help us a lot more, but there is always some authority in that? Why don't we do it now? This is the first law on citizenship and Serbs since the new constitution. It's not in the spirit of a new constitution, it's missing something, some communist thread is going through this law, and you know it, some brotherhood and unity are going through. Show me the state that's still dealing with it. Show in the environment, in these areas where you say -- most of it will be peace, Serbia is a guarantee of peace, let's show the state that is thinking about citizenship. Look in Croatia, which is on its way to being a member of the European Union. He'll be a NATO member for the years. What is he doing with Serbs from Republika Srpska? Do they exist for her at all? You, let's say these people, and the minister knows very well, for a few years you're not giving citizenship, so the refugee lives seven years in Serbia and has some refugee status. When will he be a Serbian citizen? By you, never. You have some deeper reasons. God knows what you're handling so the Serbs can be as small as possible. So, we still have two amendments, there are amendments to other parliamentary groups, we may, perhaps, be even better than I explain this, explain the concept of how this law should look like we're asking ourselves. We're glad we started, threw that first rock down the hill, so you sat down to think and fix something again. By the way, the bill itself seems to have been written only to give Montenegrins living six months in Belgrade citizenship. Who else cares? I like every man in the world. From Serbs, I like every Serb wherever he is born, and I don't separate Serbs, neither should the Serbian Radical Party, step away from ideology. But when someone bites me like that, with one stone, and me with bread, another time with stone, and I with bread, I no longer have bread. We were seriously injured, destroyed and destroyed by the Montenegrins, by a country that could have been the backbone of these, as you say, areas. Now what about them, what about them, how long? Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6139	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The Minister, Mr Dragan Jocic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6140	Just to remove one of the fears my predecessor raised, which is that everyone, meaning a member of another people or an ethnic community, will be able to gain citizenship and thus create the danger of certain criminal groups or criminal individuals getting citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. Surely those involved in crime and who are on the other side of the law will not get citizenship, or the discretionary right of the interior ministry is to assess what is of interest to the Republic of Serbia and thus give citizenship. Surely these checks concerning the lives, actions or files of some people who would take the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, just to carry out certain jobs or avoid something, will be prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6141	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic came forward. He's not in the O.R. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and the Management Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 16(2), the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Beaver.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6142	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment is both legal and real, but unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the present Minister Jocic have no intention of accepting this amendment, Mr Nikolic said, only because it was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. When you gave us the proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and the first address, I remind you, Minister Jocic, when he spoke in principle of this law, it was only that, as a matter of fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia puts this law in the process so that we would formally remove the shortcomings resulting from the secession of Montenegro, in fact, only legal-technically edit the law. At that time, Mr Jocic probably thought that this would go away, that it would not be seen in the public of Serbia what the essence of the bill is and what is the essence of what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should do in relation to citizens who plead as Serbs and who recognise the state of Serbia as their own, or the state of Serbia as their own. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to the proposal of Article 16 of this Law, and I want, first of all, to the public, to read the text of this amendment, which reads to the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, in the sense of this law, is considered a citizen of another country, a member of the Serb people, if he submits a written statement that he is considered a member of the Serbian people and that the Republic of Serbia considers himself a state. We argue that this is the only real and proper relationship between the Serbian state, the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people. All this that has been tried by some other amendments to the DSS parliamentary group, in order not to be accepted by our amendment, is not a complete solution and again the members of the Serb people are being placed in an unequal position with members of another, specifically Montenegrin people. We must make it clear and loud that for the state of Serbia, Montenegro is a foreign state, as well as any other state in the white world, that Montenegrins are the same for us as the Germans, Austrians, etc. So, they didn't want us to live in the common state, they separated by a referendum, of course, under suspicious circumstances, but in any case, a huge number of Serbs remained there to live. Of course, we don't invite them, nor can everyone come to Serbia, have their own hearths and their own estates there, but what we can do to them is above all to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to respect Article 13. The constitution we have adopted, where we have pledged to protect the rights and interests of our citizens abroad, as well as to develop and improve the relations of Serbs with the country of origin. This goal, as the amendment puts it, can most effectively be achieved by joining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia of all members of the Serbian people. When I spoke and discussed the bill in principle, I spoke as someone who wasn't born in Serbia and who hasn't lived in Serbia for about half of his life, and from that aspect I know perfectly what each Serbian means about Serbian citizenship. For as long as I know about myself, I knew and I felt Serbia as my queen, and in that spirit I was raised, and I am convinced that all Serbs born outside Serbia are intimately experiencing them as their queen and expect the Serbian state to recognize them as such. So it's not even about any concrete benefit, it's not about any tangible benefit, it's about being a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, when it comes to Serbs from Montenegro, we should also make it clear what the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to our countrymen in Montenegro will be like. It will not only be about acceptance of citizenship, but also about the fact that Serbs, but I stress that the Serbs from Montenegro, will be able to school here, and to treat and to exercise other personal rights. That's what we need to say loud and clear. We can't, Mr. Jocic, think one thing, and when we go out for a pay phone, then we need to weigh whether everyone's absolutely happy with what we say. As serious people, as serious politicians, Serbian radicals, as true patriots, we always say what we really think and always say what we are convinced is Serbian national interest and is in the interest of the Serbian people. We have no reason to be ashamed or to be afraid of anyone to say it. We must also make it possible through this law to allow citizens, Serbs from Republika Srpska, to gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. I know a lot of people, and I have them in my family, who can't get Serbian citizenship for years. There is no one, nor has there ever been, a valid reason, not even when this law is passed. Since, unfortunately, thanks to the politics of the Roman Catholic Church and the Roman Catholic Pope, the former Yugoslavia fell apart, when the secession began the war at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and when hundreds of thousands of Serbs had to leave their hearths, of course, headed towards Serbia, according to their mother. A large number of people today, who are living and will likely die with refugee status, are people who cannot physically go where they were born, or because they are old or sick, so they cannot go to get certain documents so that they can get citizenship here, or are men, who have been honorable people and fought for their hearths, because they do not know on the other side of the border whether they are waiting for secret or public lists, where they will pick them up and hand them over to the Croatian authorities or authorities in BiH. Unfortunately, it happens these days and in Serbia. Now that the trial of Prof. Vojislav Seselj has been announced, that is, when the date has been announced, several days before that, and Aleksandar Vukic informed the conference about it, but unfortunately from these conferences, contributions are mostly made to ten seconds, and those of the press, and not what is said, and now people who have citizenship, and also those who do not have citizenship, are literally being chased to prepare them to respond either to our war crimes court or to the courts of Croatia and BiH. Of course, the state of Serbia participates in this earnestly, the poor person Vukcevic, the special prosecutor for war crimes, and no one in the country pays attention to it, and, Mr Jocic, you would have to take a little care of the security of Serbian citizens, of the legal certainty of Serbian citizens. Not everyone who thinks about it can harass people in jobs and houses and on the street. People who are not born in Serbia are afraid to show up, to get out of their house, because they do not know where the representatives of The Hague investigators and those who help them in Serbia are waiting for them. This was only a small depression, but of course very much regarding the bill and the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I do not accept the government's argument that this amendment has not been accepted. The government says that "The Republic of Serbia, as a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, has an obligation to enable citizenship under reduced conditions for all citizens resident in its territory who, after the Republic of Montenegro stepped out of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, became non-citizens for it. 'So, this argument is cynical. Citizens, as you say, who had Serbian-Montenegro citizenship, precisely on the basis of this amendment, have no problem writing and signing that they are members of the Serbian people, that they recognise the state of Serbia as their country and thus gain Serbian citizenship. We don't need that for those who don't accept it, Mr. Jocic. No one can win, neither Croats nor Montenegrins, no one who is not a Serb can win. It can because you accept an amendment that looks like ours, but it's not exactly like this. That is the point, which in our amendment does not only apply to Montenegrins, but also to those who do not plead as Serbs and who do not recognise Serbia as their country. We in this way, with this amendment, Mr. Jocic, do not in any way endanger the status of Serbs where they live. We have made this "and" clear in the last sentence, where we have said that the Republic of Serbia considers it its own country. So, someone who is a Serb, lives in Montenegro, lives in Croatia, Germany, America, no matter where, because he lives there, what he does, what there has some property, etc., of course, and normally that state recognises for its state, of course and normally has the citizenship of that state. We do not dispute it in any way, nor threaten it in any way, but we want that someone, besides that country where he lives, if he is a Serb, if he is a member of the Serb people, to be able to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in a very simple and easy way. You know you've made a decision in the government to extend refugee status for another two years. It was planned to end refugee status by the end of this year. Now that's extended for another two years, you probably estimate that in those two years, people who have refugee status will be extinct, because, I repeat, they're mostly older people. It is also not correct for these people, according to those Serbs, and your motive is the same as the motive since the Serbs from the former republics began to come here. You all know that all Serbs from the former republics or 99% of them vote for the SRS, and that's why they don't get citizenship, and that's why they've been screaming for years at whatever offices, so when they leave, when they're persistent, then they're told, you have to file again, you've lost your request, you've burned down, you've sunk, I don't know what kind of misunderstanding these people get. So, since the time has passed for the amendment, once again, Mr Jocic, come out loud and clear, say do you mind if the citizen of the Republic of Serbia is also considered a national of another country, a member of the Serbian people, if he makes a written statement that he is considered a member of the Serb people and that the Republic of Serbia considers himself a state. Loud and clear, tell me if you have anything against this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6143	Here you go, Minister of the Interior, Mr. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6144	These changes and additions were written not against Montenegrins but against all Serbs no matter where they live. That's the first thing. The second thing, by your amendment, you're terminating your residence as a condition of obtaining citizenship. All citizens of the former SFRY in Article 52, except Montenegrins who were not treated under this norm, shall be entitled to this. This allows them, not only those who are citizens of the former SFRJ, but also Montenegrins, to gain citizenship on the basis of residence. There's 250,000 of them. Secondly, your amendment stands, but you and your amendment and all the amendments don't go to the end, you only regulate one piece, and you don't touch Article 23, and therefore the DSS MPs have tabled an amendment that Article 23 changes. In fact, you are giving an explanation and giving an amendment to Article 52, and you are not touching Article 23, which is very broad and which gives it to members of the Serbian people and other peoples, means, Croatians, Slovenians, Bosnians, Bosniaks and ethnic communities from the territory of Republika Srpska who do not have a residence. You don't touch that. Simply, this amendment that the government adopted and I proposed as a good one, article 23 is still narrowing down and defining itself. I'm not going to say that your amendment is not contained in Article 23, it's contained, but the whole matter is not rounded up. The second thing, you are predicting in your amendment to sign a statement that it is considered a member of the Serb people. It has been done so far, but it is done in the MUP where the pattern one is standing and on the other side the form of one who seeks citizenship has to plead to the circumstance that he is a member of the people, has to say by which he is a member of the people. And not only a statement, it is done and checked that he is a member of the Serb people. Anyway, all the amendments that are proposed to regulate this area are still good, and I have to say, it's good for you, too, but you're not going all the way. You did not simply regulate everything, but you narrow down one part, and in Article 23 you did not respond to, you leave a broad right of citizenship, and your amendment does not give citizenship based on residence, or only to Montenegrin citizens, who do not have the right to do so according to your changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6145	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6146	Mr. Chairman, I don't think this is an adequate explanation, and I don't know what the motives and initiatives are that Mr. Secretary gives this explanation. Now let me explain to you, Mr. Jocic, when the representatives of the government laugh, we have one in charge of the Laughing Assembly, so when his finger lifts, he reacts, but if I lift my finger for the third time then it'll be rude, when he changes the order of fingers. Pay attention to the following, you say our amendments are inconclusive, and I say your amendments are inadmissible. You're the status question of an individual, and you're referring to it within what time limit he's going to file for it. If a citizen submits an application until that date or within so many months, he will have the right not to pay interest, his interest will be reduced, etc. But citizenship isn't interest, it's not cash claims. It's a status question. Why is it a status question? If he's a citizen of the state whose interior minister you are, then you have an obligation to take care of that citizen wherever he is in the globe. If he is in The Hague, you must ask each day what is going on there, whether his rights, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, are at risk. You don't care. That's the first thing. The second thing, your high-sense amendment to Article 7a, is that you have installed a business capacity in a material-legal provision, and now citizenship depends on whether someone is commercially capable or not. On the Legislative Committee or on Justice, I don't know where, I told you to break this member into two, one to be a procedural nature, and the other to be a material nature. You have confused it, and now it turns out that the conditions for Serbian citizenship, in the opinion of this government, is a member of the Serbian people, who has no residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and I do not see how different it is from the Verica Radete amendment, has the right to be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia without being fired from foreign citizenship if he has turned 18 years of life. Why can't a minor? The fifth, sixth generation abroad is making diaspora, not what you're interpreting through this Cubrilo diaspora, is not diaspora temporary work abroad. It's not the diaspora that graduates from colleges, so they wash there in cafes dishes. It's not diaspora. Then you say, and he hasn't been deprived of his business ability. In this way, you say, all Serbs must be able to do business, all Serbs must be reasonable. (President: Time. ) Mr. Dulic, when there are serious discussions, I think calling on time is a team before the discussion goes in one serious stream, absolutely untasteful. Regardless of the provision that reads - three minutes, let the discussion run freely so that everything will come out and come together to some act that would act as an act of all people sitting in this room, not of any will. I interpret every time there is a serious discussion and you call in time to abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6147	Thank you very much. Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6148	Mr. Jocic's discussion is an insult to the SRS parliamentary group. You can't tell us that we have something unsaid, because, let's say, we didn't touch Article 1 23's attitude, and why would we touch it when it wasn't in college with the proposed changes and additions. That's why we're very good, keeping an eye on all that, inserting the "I" chain. So, the citizen of the Republic of Serbia is considered to be one who says he belongs to the Serbian people and considers the Republic of Serbia a state. It's a new category of citizens. He has US citizenship, but declares that he considers Serbia as his own country. Article 23 applies exclusively to persons who have foreign citizenship. It's a leave from that citizenship and admission to Serbian citizenship. We didn't touch that, Mr. Minister. We did it very carefully, we didn't play with the bill. So, Article 23, the way you're changing it now, erases the possibility that was so far and has so far existed by law, and the law has been in force for three years. Why now suddenly, in September 2007, the right of citizens of other countries from the territory of the former SFRY or ethnic communities, who do not have residence on Serbia's territory and have citizenship, if they submit a written statement that they consider Serbia as their country. That's normal. Where are you allowed to delete that provision? Admission to citizenship, condition it by firing it from another Member State, but you must predict that someone can become a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and if he is not a member of the Serb people or a member of the Serb people, but has no residence in the territory of Serbia but in one of the former members. Furthermore, if we are already talking about pointless amendments, what does this amendment mean that the request set out in Article 23(3) can be submitted within two years of the date of entry into force of this law? Reading this amendment, it is thought of the Law on Citizenship, as a member of the basic law is changing, and now it is pointless for the law, which entered into force in 2004, to write in 2007 that only within two years can someone submit a request. It should be bound to the date of entry into force of amendments and additions to the law. The law came into force in 2004 and you can't tie any more deadlines for that term. There, so much only about principle and senselessness. Say it wasn't your desire to show yourself to the world as people who care for their people, but here you are again putting something in the same basket, and we'll all be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6149	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Buha reported, and then the amendment wants to be discussed by Cedomir Jovanovic, the head of the LDP parliamentary group and Miroslav Petkovic, in front of the DSS-NS parliamentary club, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will point to Article 23. He is very important, and especially from the aspect of the refugee population, given that the moment this law came into force, we expected him to be a valve for all refugees. With it, however, we have not practically solved everything the legislator meant, but in practical application we do not have those solutions. When the law limits people to 18 and over 18 years of age, it's very strange with the legislator. I ask the question to the current minister and secretary of the ministry, why limit it to a certain number of years, whether the citizen who is up to 18 is a smaller Serb and whether his wish to be a citizen of this Serbia is smaller than if he is 18 and a day old. As far as business skills are concerned, it is natural and normal for citizens who have no business ability, and Serbs are, in a difficult social state, located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we must show greater attention and responsibility and take care of them. It's natural that they have a priority, not that we limit them. Furthermore, in Article 23, you say that a member of a Serb or another nation or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who does not have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, if he has turned 18 years of life and has not been deprived of his business capacity, and if he submits a written statement that the Republic of Serbia considers Serbia as his country. Now you'll see what it means in practical application. Over 18 years of age, he has a business capacity, gave a written statement, on your site, instructions for citizens and workers of the Ministry of the Interior, which are carrying out the administrative procedure and given the following order: persons who have escaped, this Article 23 in item 2 refers to refugees, to the territory of the Republic of Serbia or abroad, with a request, the applicant attaches proof of residence, or residence, a copy of the birth certificate, assurance of citizenship of another state established in the territory of the SFRY, a copy of the marriage book, a photocopy of refugee legislation, a photocopy of the identity card, consent of the child if the child is more than 14 years old and submits the parents, a written statement, evidence of a taxi paid. I'm asking a question, why are you legally justified to ask for this number of documents, what for citizenship will be a copy of the birth certificate, trust in citizenship, a copy of the marriage birth certificate. A man wants to be a citizen, whether it matters whether he's married or not, I'm married today, and tomorrow I'm not, I get married again, and I get divorced the day after tomorrow, and I do it a hundred times. Why you're administering, and that's especially important for refugees. Because all of this in Croatia, then taxes there, which are allowed to go, and travel expenses there, and taxes there, and so on. Why are we administering? So make it possible for these people, normally they want to be citizens, live here for 15-18 years, give them that citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6151	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, at least for the record, state which member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. You say, Mr. Krassic, right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia and the dignity of the National Assembly have been violated, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not accept this amendment, which was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta, insults me not by common sense, but by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Minister, how the state of Serbia can be the state of the Serbian people, so all Serbs living anywhere in the world, if you condition citizenship by residence. It doesn't say in Article 1. The constitution that the Republic of Serbia is the state of Serbs living in Serbia, rather than the state of the Serbian people. The Serbian people live in both Canada and America, both in France and Australia. The point of our amendment is that all Serbs living in the world, if they want to, allow themselves to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizenship, Mr. Minister, must not be a privilege, it must be the right one. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, in light of the amendment given by Ms. Verica Radeta, you say the Republic of Serbia is a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That's right. But you're forgetting one important historical fact. At a time when no Yugoslavia and no state union existed, there was an independent and independent Kingdom of Serbia. According to the laws of the Kingdom of Serbia, passed before 1914, it was literally so, each Serb was considered a national of the state. I guess that state-owned legal tradition has something to do with you. Furthermore, your argument that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as the Ministry of Interior on the basis of discretionary rights, will not allow Montenegrin criminals, who have reported residence in Serbia to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will absolutely not stand. In your proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship, it literally reads as follows: "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia in terms of this law is also considered a Montenegrin citizen who, on 3 June 2006, had a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if he submits a written statement that he is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a request for registration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia." Where any discretionary right of the Ministry of the Interior is mentioned. Under the law, these people are considered citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you do not have any legal mechanism to prevent Montenegrin criminals, who are in Belgrade and other cities in Serbia, that only because they have registered residence in Serbia remain citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you prevent Serbs, honest Serbs, from becoming citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this is a fundamental problem with your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6153	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6154	It's a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure. What's the point? It's about the government of the Republic of Serbia wanting something, but it doesn't know what, it doesn't know how. However, it must appear to be something in the media. Is anyone clear? No one understands. That's what this government is like. It's not moving, it's not running. What did we want with our amendments? This is what I'm telling people so that those people who watch the transmission will understand me. What's the difference? The difference is that the SRS is aware of the situation in which the Serbian people are located, aware that the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has also been introduced and that a higher level of protection for the Serbian people and all citizens living in the Republic of Serbia has been prescribed. There is one definition, when called "a citizen" in the Constitution, is referring to a citizen living in the territory of a republic. Given the new circumstances, that our countrymen, our brothers, our sisters, for the past 15 years have become an ethnic community, a minority community, an ethnic group, somewhere a national minority, rarely, and all of them were constitutional people and within these administrative republics, there is no protection of their human rights because they are minorities in a country. This calls for the Council of Europe, the EU, etc. But, of course, they're quiet. How's the Council of Europe? It's just enough to say - when it was an emergency, we were accepted to be members of the Council of Europe. On the contrary, fire and water. Then the SRS took this opportunity to influence the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs in the National Assembly, to take a step further, to allow anyone who considers himself a Serb, no matter where he lives and no matter whose nationality he has, to allow him to gain citizenship, because then we could give him some protection: 32% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are without any protection; Montenegro does not recognise them, the minority, or the status of a national minority. They don't have a radio, they don't have a TV, they don't have a school, they scoot, they get kicked out of work, and so on. We must protect them. Why? They say, "We are you." It's my neighbor, only it's a little further from his house than my house. What does the government want? She wants to do something to gain Serbian citizenship only by their Montenegrins who are in government and ministries. Once they say residence, the second time they say it's not residence, the third time it's business-worthy, the fourth time it's not business-worthy, the two-year term, there's no deadline, and this, and that. So it's not moving, it's not running. So I invite all MPs to the National Assembly, vote for these three amendments that the SRS has submitted, you will sleep peacefully, and everyone will glorify you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6155	Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6156	If I may also assist you in making this new Rules of Procedure. We're in an awkward situation right now. We have submitted an amendment to the bill we received from the government. The government has read the amendment, seen that it is necessary to regulate it, through one of its MPs to submit a new amendment, which it has accepted, and it is now an integral part of the bill. What did we now submit to the amendment? What are we discussing here now, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People? Get out of these scams. Practically, we don't have an amendment to the government's bill. We're talking to you about some members you've already thrown out, and we haven't had a new time to give our amendments to that new bill. Now we're talking about our concept, we're making a stand for viewers, and in voting day it's impossible to vote on our amendment because it's not about what the bill is. It's a hoax of MPs and con men who think we're passing the law here and that we're coming up with a better solution here. We'll explain our concept to you. Even if you will, you've deprived us of the opportunity to be the bill. If Mr. Petkovic's amendment is part of the bill now, we're talking about something that doesn't exist. We didn't have time to change what Petkovic suggested, and we needed that time, so that we didn't turn out to be a pointless business. And as you say more and more often that the Assembly, even some of your officials, and the official of Mr. President of the Assembly in the media, declares that the Assembly is slow, so the ministers say, we'll have a heart attack here as long as they step on us. You guys are actually doing a theater here. The government has its own bill of law, and there is no deviation from it, even when it is the worst. If he has to step down a bit, he accepts it as his proposal. Where's that proposal now? Do we now have before us a bill on citizenship? We don't. And if the government has said that it has already included something in that proposal, we should have it, so that a new numbering of members can be made, and then MPs can make amendments to those new members. But you're only looking for time to pass. You don't care, you suffer this debate, you look at the hour you have under what law, when some law comes to order, it became a function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We've convinced half of you we're right. That half of you and this majority of us, there's most of you in the congregation. But you will vote that the government has accepted something and included it in the bill. And you have relatives, you have friends, you have both father and mother regarding this law. You don't care. You're just thinking about whether or not someone else can get into some board of directors at this new division and how long we're going to make it, in this kind of conflict, to keep the government, so that our people can be ministers, so that our people can be ambassadors, so that our people can sell out this little state property that's left. This law breaks Serbia's fate, whether we are 15 million or 30, whether the electoral body will be 20 million or six million. It doesn't matter to you, you don't care. You've come to the situation that in the refugee family, they're so confused by the confusion in our law, that half of the family members apply for citizenship, and half of them can't. Because you work with Croatia through refugees. How else do you cooperate - through our country you give them, through our factories and markets you give them and via refugees. (President: Time. ) They are our link to Croatia. What kind of relationship? Who of them can go there, who can ask the question of enjoying their property. Let's see when he leaves with the Serbian passport, if he's allowed to be arrested, and when he's arrested, whether or not the state of Serbia will be able to spray and put up a protest, then ask Croatia to free its citizen. No, this is where you arrest them, that's where they get arrested. No country, no citizenship, no place of residence, no place of residence. This law is a unique opportunity to regulate it. Who knows when we'll have time to get back to this law. Here, in 2004, you passed the Law, now it's almost 2008. So, at best, four years from now, this law can be back on the agenda. Don't pass the laws half-breedingly and don't make them half-breeding. You accepted Petkovic's amendments. It's not a good law with these amendments, it's not finished, it's not finished. That's why you're going to prescrib the forms, so you're going to ask him where he was on June 6th, where he was on June 20th. It's old stories. It takes 10,000 dinars to file a request, let him know he was lost during the bombing, file again - 10,000. Where and how?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6157	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6158	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that Mr. Nikolic has raised some fundamental issues during this debate. It's bad, Mr. Jocic, that the government tried to trick parliament and our society. When the Government is serious: is it then when it sends us to parliament an explanation for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure or when a representative of the Government offers an explanation for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Citizenship? You, Mr. Jocic, have said that these changes and additions are not due to Serbs from Montenegro, but because of all Serbs in the world. This is where you said it 10-15 minutes ago. After that, a debate was followed, which was launched through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. In an explanation sent by the government, it states very clearly: "The basic reason for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure is the need to change in the area of citizenship, which occurred after the escalation of the Republic of Montenegro from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, making the Republic of Serbia a legal follower of the state union, as soon as possible and, in this respect, providing protection for persons who, given the circumstances they could not influence, became non-citizens, resulting in damage to the everyday life of those persons. Also, the reason lies in the need to allow for the smooth work of the state authorities in the new circumstances by establishing as soon as possible who is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia." What does this formal explanation of the Government have to do with the reasons that you, as a representative of the Government, have offered to us here in parliament, and in particular what the amendments to this law have to do with the amendment that the Government has tried to collect political points, while at the same time not having the courage to agree with the proposal of a parliamentary party that has pointed to a member who wants to change. The SRS has submitted an amendment to a member of the law. You didn't have the strength to accept this amendment, you wrote an amendment that is essentially identical in itself, and so you tried to do what, to achieve a political benefit, not to take care of the interests of the citizens you speak of when you state the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. What exactly is this about? It's a good thing that you, Mr. Milosavljevic, are here because you are a representative of the Democratic Party that has a majority in the government. How could you vote for such an amendment? Do you know what you've done with this amendment? That every Serb in the world, whether he has a residence in Serbia or not, can get citizenship from the Republic of Serbia, but only when he turns 18. Why not before? Why can he drive a car when he's 16, and he can't say, "I feel Serbian"? Because the state is expecting something from someone 18 years old and someone 18 years old is gaining a certain right that doesn't have before. Does the state have a duty to its citizens? Here is a member of the Constitution, Article 13, "to protect the interests of citizens, whether they are in Serbia or outside it". We have now taken on ourselves, amendments and additions to this law, in an amendment that has become an integral part of the law to an obligation that Serbia cannot fulfil, or not without conflict and conflict. What does the question of business ability as a criterion mean? Does this mean that someone who is not businessable cannot be a Serbian citizen, do we form an Aryan race? Let us introduce a criterion of business ability in selecting a government or MP for the National Assembly. How is one’s business ability established, and where is it determined? At the police station, in front of the counter? In fact, this is about what Tomislav Nikolic was talking about, forming a new voting machine, because at the age of 18 you gain the right to vote and participate in the elections, so Vojislav Kostunica would like to see support, which he can no longer find in Serbia, in this legal manipulation found in some other space outside Serbia. This law has nothing to do with refugees. How did these people become refugees? They did not come to Serbia for wanting to come but were forced to do something like that. That's the price of one bad policy. They live as second and third-class citizens on the periphery of our municipalities, without the right to normal school, to be treated normally, to work normally. This has nothing to do with the right of refugees, and we have nothing against these refugees getting Serbian citizenship without any obstacles, and we have no problem with the exiled faces and their desire to get a new residence. We also want that to happen, to solve this issue in Serbia, but this is something else, this is something completely different. You don't want to give citizenship to people under the age of 18, because the state has a financial obligation to them. You have to provide them with free education, free health care, and in return you can get nothing from them. You can't mobilize them, you can't charge them taxes, you can't force them to vote for you, but at 18, that's possible. This brings us into a new political era, a situation where parliamentary parties or parties competing in the elections will find themselves in amazing circumstances. Are we now going to campaign in Montenegro, Republika Srpska? How much is being introduced into our political life in this way, and that they have nothing to do with Serbia itself. You said -- because of the people who are apatride at this point, because the state community has fallen apart. Now all of a sudden, it's because of all the Serbs in the world. Serbia has an obligation to them, and you cannot answer that obligation the way you should. You can't treat those born in Serbia the way the state treats its citizens. So you're forming a new electoral body and that's what you're supposed to say, and now you're looking for support in the new environments because in this environment you lost that support. We will vote against this law, we would vote against this amendment. We're amazed by the fact that DS and G17 allowed something like this. It's incredible, it's anti-democratic, it's anti-civil. This is directly opposed to the interests of Serbia itself and the policy you are talking about. How much does this law cost Serbia, Mr. Milosavljevic, how much does this law cost? Where are the colleagues from G17, the expertise in front of politics, how much does this law cost and what consequences follow this law? You have formed a new voting machine for those who can no longer hold their foothold in Serbia's society, but they find the foothold in the Serb people located in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, above all in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and that of BiH-Montenegro. This creates assumptions for a new political crisis, as political loyalty is then raised. The agreements that have been created so far are collapsing the values developed after wars and conflicts and deepening the crises that have occurred in the meantime. There is no deal with the government of Montenegro, and we wanted you to agree with the government of Montenegro. In this way, you give Serbian citizenship to a third of Montenegro's electoral body and you send them a message that what happened in the referendum is actually no longer something that limits them politically, because they can now build their Serbia in the rest of Montenegro, through the fact that Serbian citizens, regardless of what the official Montenegro means. We asked for a deal with the government of Montenegro, there is no deal. There is no agreement with refugee organisations, and that is why this law is so unspeakable to them, and it is cruel to citizens and citizens of Serbia who live here, who pay taxes, who are victims of official politics, and these become victims of those who have nothing to do with Serbia, except to vote in elections, due to political manipulation, for a policy whose price is not paid by them but by someone else who lives here. And yet Serbia will be the victim of someone from Pal, and someone from Knin and some pirates from Montenegro, who will not pay the price of their irresponsible policy, but will pay that price for people from Belgrade, Vojvodina, Nis, so those who know very well why they behave like this, when they distance themselves from policies that are currently formulating changes and supplementing this law. You better get out and tell them you're back to the system of values that the SRS is talking about, rather than scaring Serbia with radicals, and then you're actually doing what they'd like to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6159	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6160	The whole law was read here, and I gave an explanation only of Article 23. When I mentioned all Serbs, this applied to Article 23, paragraph 1, that is, the 1st amendment Petkovic submitted. The predecessor spoke and read the whole law's explanation. As far as children are concerned, I have to say that children are managed by parents if they are underage, and if both spouses, or both parents, have acquired citizenship and are citizens, they will also have children under 18. As far as business skills are concerned, you know you need a desire and free will. So, if someone is mentally ill, so there are lucid intervals, these are intervals where you seem to think he's smart, or he's normal, then that won't work because it's not free will. Well, that's just it. Of course, if he's a guardian, then the guardian can plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6161	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6162	I answer to some inaccuracies in interpreting our intentions by my predecessor. In talks with representatives of the Serb people from Montenegro and at a press conference that we then held, we made it clear that they do not seek the right to vote. This is what we wanted to show everyone not to make, at least we Serbian radicals, a new electoral body and representatives of the Serb people from Montenegro agreed. On the other hand, I don't know why a pro-Western political party fears that Serbs living there for ten, 20, 40, 50 years will get Serbian citizenship, even if they can vote. Since they live in the graces of Western civilizations, they will vote for the parties that these graces want to introduce. The assumption, that presummation, that Serbs who, for example, live in Germany would vote for radicals and not for LDP, is absolutely incorrect. Or, you may not well interpret the way of life in the West, because if you now claim that Serbs living in the West are not satisfied with that life, and would like Serbia to live as the SRS wills, then your efforts to introduce the Western way of life into Serbia are absolutely pointless. You're throwing them under your own feet. We're not afraid of new voters at all, let them vote for whoever they want, let them choose whatever they want. You committed a fraud along with the DSS when in the amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, you provided for the possibility for our citizens to vote abroad. You've received some 7,000-8,000 new voters, and small political parties, such as Mr. Batic's party, have spent more money than they've cost the election here, because they've sent some young boy or girl abroad to follow up on God's elections, to check whether the elections are regular. You have charged huge costs to the state of Serbia, and nothing has changed in terms of the electoral body. Whoever wants to allow people abroad to vote, he will propose to the National Assembly a law by which they will be able to either electronically or by mail, with complete certainty that nothing has been stolen, thus already being voted in many countries in the world, suggest that they vote in such a way and that their votes be counted accordingly. Secondly, we don't need new citizens to pay taxes. We need to finally count how many Serbs there are and how many Serbs who want Serbian citizenship. It's nothing new. After all, there is a family holiday in Greece the day of elections, when all Greeks from all over the world must meet in Greece. Of course, the birthplace where they're listed in the ballots. Mandatoryly, the law abolishes certain privileges for Greeks who do not vote. It's not punishing them, it's cutting off their extra privileges, and it's about paying taxes. You already have foreign citizens here who pay taxes. Are they Serbian citizens? No, they're not. Paying taxes is not the only legislation for citizenship. Otherwise, what would happen in the world? So when you interpret the ideas of the SRS, let us interpret them, and you bring out your program here and what you want. Our wish was to count ourselves, to meet constitutional norm, constitutional obligation, constitutional right to count ourselves, to allow all of us to be citizens of Serbia, to benefit from Serbia as a state, to benefit from certain benefits because they are citizens of Serbia, not to discriminate, to deny anyone the right to do so. That's why we haven't deleted any members of the law that so far provided for the right to citizenship of others, just to see if in this country, new Serbia, every Serb has the right to citizenship, whether in Russia every Russian has the right to citizenship, in America every American has the right to citizenship. That's all we wanted to see and, in the end, how many of you are entitled to the Serbs you don't want to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6163	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ambassador Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6164	I am using this opportunity to get to know the interior minister and the secretary who would have to take into account, especially in these situations when it comes to vitals, I would say systematic and reform procedures in a particular area, to take into account, above all, international legal standard, international law provisions, and especially if they are ratified in domestic legislation, they are binding. In the principle debate, I pointed to a certain international law, it is the International Convention on Refugee Status of 1951, which our country ratified and which as such entered into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What does the International Convention on Refugee Status say? It requires a mild - tempered attitude toward the refugee population. Refugees from the 1990s, and especially from 91st and beyond, did not have a favored relationship by the country of origin, in most cases. There were some situations, especially in some environments where there was good will, the relationship was mild - tempered. I warn here of Article 25, where it calls on a Member State to accept and ratify the International Convention to carry out administrative assistance. We don't have that administrative aid on the counters. We're waiting for the clerk's counter to tell us as a rule: fill this out, collect this file, and then we'll solve your case. It's very important to get refugees off the counter. I specifically refer to these provisions that you have prescribed as binding for citizens, refugees and workers in the Ministry of Interior who are acting on them in administrative proceedings. Don't, please, in the process of getting a solution to citizenship, you're looking for a copy of the birth certificate, asking for confidence in citizenship. What's that for? We just want a solution and nothing more. Give me a document, and we're done. In documents, when we came and submitted requests, you took all our documents, and the ID cards of the Republika Srpska Krajina, and the passports that we received in Republika Srpska and so on. You have no right to do that. First, both the ID card and passport are my ID, my property, the property of the one who paid a certain fee for the form and paid the administrative fee. It's my document. No one can take it from me. But you did. Now that the process of exercising the right to citizenship, we have a refugee book, to deliver that basic priority document, we don't have it, you took it. Furthermore, as far as the provisions of the Convention are concerned, this Convention is very important. Please give it to the professional services to study it. It also requires goodwill in the area of taxes, taxis and fiscal fees, taxes. She says the states of the parties will not subject refugees to taxes, taxes and taxes. The refugees pay for both, the second and the third. When you make changes to the Administrative Tax Act, let us free those refugees, free them from taxis at least. They're not that big, but they're a burden, because, with a request for administrative fees and a fee for the work of the state authority, we pay a number of other taxes to get other documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6165	According to the Rules of Procedure, the vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly, then Petar Jojic, then Zarko Korac, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 136 and 161. The Rules of Procedure, where we are talking about an urgent procedure and the necessity to pass this law, and here you have seen all your intentions from the beginning, before what the president of our parliamentary group spoke of, Mr Nikolic, when you incorporated amendments that have become an integral part of the law and thus completely changed it, your MP, Petkovic, that it is about the hypocrisy of the worst possible rank. Mr. Jocic, you, as Mr. Martinovic told you, have conditioned the right to citizenship. I will now explain to you on your case, since you were born in Montenegro and have obtained citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and if you were hypothetically willing to have the citizenship of Montenegro, when you were soon no longer a minister, sign up there in your birthplace or anywhere in Montenegro, they would tell you, because that is how they will be, according to their new constitution, that you are looking for a discharge from Serbian citizenship, or that you are not a Montenegrin, so that you can get their citizenship by automatism, because I assume they will favour those, in the wake of this campaign that is being led against the Serb people in Montenegro, who plead as non-existent Montenegrins. What they're going to write in the constitution, whether they're Montenegrins, Martians, aliens, it's completely irrelevant, because what's called Montenegrins, it doesn't exist, it's an imaginary nation and they're going to put it in the constitution like that. You have just admitted, in an explanation of the emergency procedure, that you want to reward those who broke the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the separatists who have affected us in this situation and that the Serbs in Montenegro are in this situation. You see what you have written, Mr Jocic, in the reasons for the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure you say that ''the basic reason for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure is seen in the need to change in the area of citizenship, which occurred after the inauguration of the Republic of Montenegro from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, making the Republic of Serbia a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as soon as possible to regulate and to ensure protection of persons who, under the circumstances they could not influence, became non-citizens. ''The separatists from Montenegro, which you will reward and put in the same rank as the Serbs from Montenegro or the Serbs from any part of the world, from America, from Canada, could have just, Mr. Jocic, influenced this to happen, and you say you would have done to those who could not under the circumstances. I would understand that you accept the amendment of your fellow Radet, which we are still discussing both in business and through replicas, that there is such an explanation, but you were just not consistent to the end. You say you need the law for those who couldn't influence, and they broke the state, held a referendum with the help of Shiptar and Lajcak, under suspicious circumstances, and now you will reward them. On the other hand, Mr. Jocic, you know that in no country in the former Yugoslav republics, so there will be no case in Montenegro either, because you follow, I suppose, and you know that in the course of their constitution, residence cannot be the right by which someone will get citizenship. Go, say, to Slovenia and tell the Slovenians - I will be registered with you for six months, a year and ask for citizenship. They did not give their citizens by law in 1992, they had until the end of 1992, since it was the first secessionist republic from the former SFRY to declare: either they want to be citizens of the former banana republic or they want to be citizens of another, although it is Serbs who are of the origin of Serbs. Therefore, now to make it happen that some Serb, who will, and lives in Slovenia, will, but may give up theirs. What do we care? What did he ask for in theirs? Serbs from Serbia's Montenegro should get all the rights, because they are the ones from this argument that could not affect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6167	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6168	One correction. Ms. Jovanovic, I was born on September 7, 1960 in Belgrade at the Railway Hospital and was brought from the hospital to Kursulin 22. We didn't want to reward anyone. Everyone's right. What we have brought, which is very clear and loudly said, is that a member of the Serb people, who does not have a residence in Serbia, has the right to be admitted to Serbian citizenship, if he is 18 years old, not to ask for forgiveness and not to account for it. In the second position, we have given other rights, which are not members of the Serb people, but can only benefit from this right within two years under privileged circumstances, and Serbs can forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6169	Thank you very much, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6170	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a national issue, and I think the best interpretation and explanation regarding this importance has been given by the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. This is also too serious a question, a question beyond many issues when it comes to national interest. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments and additions had to cover those contents and those rights covered by the amendments to the SRS, particularly in the amendment tabled by the SRS MP, Mrs Verica Radeta. Ladies and gentlemen, back in the years, when it comes to resolving demands and problems related to citizenship, the state has absolutely not updated this issue and does not attach as much importance to it as it is to citizens and Serbs. I ask the question to Mr. Minister, since he is present, how many applications have been filed so far for admission to citizenship from 1990 to today? The second question, how has the requirement for admission into Serbian citizenship been resolved after years, again since 1990, since the beginning of the crisis and since the beginning of the Serbian people and their troubles? The state of Serbia does not pay attention to its citizens, to its Serbs, as other countries guarantee it in parallel, and comply with international standards, when it comes to gaining certain rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked two questions and I expect Mr. Secretary to order the service to answer. I set this up for the reasons that a large number of citizens have been speaking to me for years back from Croatia, who have been expelled from Bosnia and are not in a position to resolve their status, and in particular points to the troubles of our people when it comes to obtaining certain rights, especially when it comes to gaining immobility, because it has not been possible for them, based on previous passports, ID cards and refugee ID cards, to allow over-purchase contracts and obtaining real estate, as well as mobile things of greater value in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'd only have two or three sentences left. (President: But to really be two or three sentences, because we still have a lot of people reporting in the Rules of Procedure. I'll finish. When it comes to Article 17, Article 18 and Article 19, I believe that this is where it was meant to be harmonised, as the proposer suggests that the procedure for resolving requests for the acquisition and termination of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will begin before the date of entry into force of this law, it will end under the provisions of this law. Now, Article 18 of the Home Affairs Minister will comply with the regulations of the sublaw, but it is given a 60 - day period. However, in Article 19, this law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the 'Official Messenger'. It doesn't make sense here, it doesn't have harmony. I think the interior minister has the opportunity to regulate sub-legal regulations within 60 days, which will regulate the way in which citizenship is acquired in the process and within that time period, because if the law applies within eight days, it is 60 days long. That is why the deadline should be shorter and it should be shortened, because citizens need to get a passport sometimes for legitimate reasons and get citizenship as soon as possible in order to obtain certain rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6171	Thank you. National Messenger Zarko Korac, then the MP of the people Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6172	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, honourable Members of the People, I've been thinking before about whether to report when the draft of these laws is put on the agenda here. The minister just spoke about the problem of working ability. I must tell you that our country is a signator of a large number of conventions that protect against prejudice. There are, believe it or not, and prejudice towards mentally ill people. Whether you like it or not and mentally ill people have their nation, their origin and their parents. It can't be a reason to deny someone citizenship because he's mentally ill. It's simple, that's right, the world is the way we live. So that's one heavy discrimination. I warn you, the law may fall on you because of it, if someone catches it and starts chasing it, which, of course, I don't want or ask for it, by some European institutions. That can't be the basis for denying citizenship to anyone. Because he had a history of mental illness, he's currently mentally ill, not to mention here, I apologize, I don't open that topic, that someone can and can heal and, of course, that it happens often, or that it can heal, or be in remission, etc., and be a capable and active member of society. So that kind of discrimination just isn't allowed. This can't be the basis for a lack of citizenship. By the time I got here, different countries actually regulate this differently, the question of citizenship. There are countries that give you citizenship just because you were born in her territory. For example, Brazil, the United States has had it recently, and we have a check of a number of our citizens, or citizens, who went to America in a different state, and when they were born, they sought citizenship for their children and received it. America recently introduced some restrictions. So that's basically true. So it's regulated differently, it can be very extensive, as proposed by the law and there are, of course, principles so-called. Blood principles of blood and soil, so I don't open that topic. It could be combined. You define yourself here as so-called. The principle of blood. This means that the members of one nation all have the right to citizenship, and the law regulates how. There are many countries that regulate it, it can't be said that such a practice doesn't exist, but there is one much more serious problem here, this is what our parliamentary group has been talking about, that this right can come into collage with the right or regulations of another country, in this case Montenegro has been mentioned, but Germany can also be mentioned, and there are other countries that do not allow dual citizenship. Of course, you can say -- that's not our problem, that's that particular citizen's problem, whether he can solve it or can't solve it. But you've opened a much bigger topic here, it's that many countries make a difference between citizenship and voting rights. In my opinion, when a law like this is proposed, it is not in line with a law that regulates who has the right to vote. In our country, and it exists in some countries, it's completely even, but there are a lot of countries that separate those rights. So, you can be a citizen, but to vote, it's not enough to be in the polling list, but you have to satisfy other conditions, let's say that during the year you stayed 30-45 or 15 days in that country, or that you paid taxes that year, etc. I want to say that it can really create a lot of problems that we have all lived in the common state, and with us the issue of citizenship, Yugoslavia has fallen apart, is not as abstract as the issue of Norwegian citizenship or the question of Danish citizenship. So if we're giving citizenship to all of our people, we're offering them that chance, then we have to answer the question -- does that mean that all people who may be living abroad for 30, 40 years, went after the war, gained an automatic voting right, and what it means in practice for our country, that in the elections someone, pay attention, who actually doesn't bear the consequences for what he voted, unlike all of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6173	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6174	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jocic, I have reported in accordance with Article 101. Rules of Procedure. I'm not properly interpreted. I've made myself very clear, Mr. Jocic. I said that you have offered one explanation of the amendment and addition of the Law on Citizenship which is completely contrary to the reasoning that the Government has presented to us here in Parliament in amendments to the Law. You said you offered an explanation for the amendments to Article 23, not for the amendments to the entire law. But you did not answer how the government subsequently realized that it should deal with the issue of all Serbs and what it was crucial to change the decision, which had previously been related exclusively to solving the problems arising from the fact that there is no longer a SCG state union, and that here in Serbia we have an undefined number of citizens, citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, who are now actually living in the status of apatride, i.e. people without citizenship. What was so important, so the government now decided to start resolving the status of all Serbs outside Serbia on issues of resolving Montenegrin status in Serbia. These are completely different goals. The voter's body is mentioned, but we're glad that it happened, because in the debate we would certainly be talking about the goals of these changes. One of the speakers, I think, was the head of the SRS parliamentary group, because he said, among other things, that the function of this law is in the counting of Serbs. But allow the fact that someone can be a Serb, and a citizen of another state, the one in which he lives, is not a prerequisite for Serbia's citizenship. This results, it can be interpreted in such a way, because no one has said it, but it can be interpreted in such a way that it is a Serb who has a Serbian passport, and who does not. We're not saying that anyone who wants to be a Serb must have Serbian citizenship. It's not said in this law, but it's real as a consequence of this law. If we wanted to list Serbs, we could have done it another way. If we introduce the citizenship criterion as evidence, as the only credible evidence and reference fact, then we take on the state of Serbia obligations that it cannot respond to. It's a very important matter of paying taxes. We have a Serbia that is full of citizens who do not pay taxes here, because they are citizens of another country, so they pay there, and the same answer is at that other address. We know some of them. Some of the largest Serbian tycoons when you ask them -- where you pay taxes, they say -- in Montenegro, and when asked in Montenegro, they say -- they pay in Serbia. One of them, of course, is Vojin Lazarevic, as you mention him, has no reason not to talk about him openly. Let him choose a man whose citizen he will be, and then let him pay his taxes in the country where he lives. That's clear. We, among other things, insist on it. So, the fact that someone is a citizen of Serbia commits him is binding on that Serbian citizen. How will someone who is a Serbian citizen, not lives in Serbia, meet those obligations to the same extent as citizens living in Serbia? Of course he can't do that. Did he ask any citizens in Serbia if they were willing to finance this alternative list of Serbs in the world? We're against it. We believe this will produce new crises, complicate interstate relations, especially in the area of the former Yugoslavia. Because, primarily, the amendments and additions to the Law apply to the Serbian people living in the premises of the former Yugoslav republics, not to Serbs in America or Germany, as some have commented, above all to Serbs in Montenegro, Serbs in Republika Srpska, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Serb community in Croatia, which, if politically engaged, has completely different views from those formally represented by the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6175	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia ask for an explanation from Minister Jocic of what business ability and adulthood have to do with the acquisition of citizenship. Mr. Minister, forget when you're discussing the law on amendments to the Citizenship Act that you're a member of the DSS. Forget you're a minister and think like a lawyer. In the Constitution of Serbia, I remind you, I don't know which way, it says that the state of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people. The state of full-time Serbs does not say, and does not say the state of the business-skilled Serbs. Your explanation that a man must be of age to decide whether to be a Serbian citizen or not is hypocritical. If anyone asks a underage child if they want to go to elementary school or not. Anybody ask him if he wants to vaccinate or not. If he is a minor, he is legally represented by his parents, and I guess parents can make a statement on behalf of a minor child that he is a Serbian child and wants to be a Serbian citizen, and when that underage child grows up, when it becomes full-aged, if he does not want to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, he can again walk out of Serbian citizenship with his own free will. It's such an explanation, that a man has to be a minor and have to be a business capable, hypocritical. You deliberately use this amendment, written by your MP, to narrow the rights of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 1 at the very beginning, defines Serbia as the state of the Serbian people as the state of Serbs. It does not say as a state of Serb adult and as a state of business-skilled Serbs. You deliberately introduced this into the bill to prevent the Republic of Serbia from becoming a state of the entire Serbian people under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6177	According to the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Alexander Vukitch. Here you go, Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6178	If I understand this correctly, and correct me, it means that it is possible that the father and mother are Croats and to tell the underage child - he is a Serb. It is possible by you that what you said that parents are making a statement that their child is a citizen of Serbia, and that they are Croats, if I understood well, if I didn't, correct me. Again, there is simply a legal solution for those under 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6179	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Jocic resorts to extremely incredible structures, extremely tense reasons, only to prevent the adoption of the SRS amendment. Mr. Minister, you're a member of a party that says it's legal, that you're fighting for the Constitution, etc. Once again, the Constitution in Article 1 has been written very simply, concisely, there are no dilemmas - Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and do not put into such a clear constitutional formulation any restrictive provisions. This example you set is purely hypothetical. After all, the question of the nation, I suppose, is the subject of subjective feelings. You have now mentioned to us here the Bosnians, and Bosniaks, etc. I don't know what kind of nation that is. Montenegrins, Bosnians, Bosniaks, fully invented communist nations. We're talking about real people and their real problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6181	According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is reasonable to debate in the National Assembly and to make these discussions harsh, and that representatives of the executive authority and representatives of the opposition present arguments that they think are most reasonable, that they are most acceptable to citizens, but above all for those to whom certain legal standards will apply. We have heard here on several occasions today a misreading of the words spoken by Serbian radicals and ideas that Serbian radicals have. Of course, one word that was used to show itself, which would be good, as well as how many Serbs there are today and how many Serbian citizens should be, was an opportunity -- yeah, you'd be counting something again or I don't know what. We have a census every 10 years in all normal countries of the world, when emergency situations are going and more often, so we're all listing ourselves, so there's other than saying what you're by nationality, and you can say, you have the right to say that you're an Eskimo or an Indian. Most of us Indians were somehow after 2000. People lost in 2001, so they pleaded as Indians in a small number. But anyway, I've made this a little bit of an adjudication as a joke to those who transfer the fact that we want to see and what we want to know how many Serbs there are, and it's not good for Mr. Jovanovic to take on the role of defender of the ideas of the SRS, it's understood that completely wrongly interpreting the ideas of Serbian radicals. We are proud to point out our desire and intention to help our people, in line with the fact that all the nations in the world, not just great nations, do so. Not only can you not touch an American in any, at any part of the globe, who committed some kind of crime or crime, because his country is behind him and because they've made the world's largest melting path, not only when it comes to Americans, but we have Croats, which you all like to talk about. Serbs here today and Serbs in Montenegro, for example, are not looking for anything more than the Croats in Montenegro have. Croatians in Montenegro have been entitled to dual citizenship since 1993. If there are 1.14% of Croats in Montenegro and they are allowed to do so, it would be understood and it would be logical, rational and normal for 31% of people who plead as Serbs to do so. Then we can say in some ways that we have the right to say that these people speak Serbian, not native or other fictional language, because I have not heard that in Australia, Canada or America they speak American, Canadian and Australian. There is a much greater difference in language between British English and American English than between the Serbian language spoken in Prijepolje and Pljevi. If anyone sees any difference, I don't see it, but nothing at all. Not by dialect, by nothing. But our purpose is to help our people, what we are ashamed of, is for all citizens of Serbia to do so, but we want to help our people, as all other great nations do, and there is no great philosophy there. I've come up with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, you won't mind me, because some political passions have obviously been passed on to the street. Yesterday in the afternoon he was brutally attacked, and it was attacked by more people, members of the SRS, but when I say brutally attacked, a special reception attacked Mr. Slobodan Vukovic, the city council member of the SRS. People had a stand where they collected citizens' signatures to directly transfer the trial of Vojislav Seselj, which is due to begin on November 7th, to take the role of RTS. Some motorists showed up, we don't have a license number, but I'll show you right now, one was a big white engine, and the other two were big per gabarita, per cubic. We don't know any other names, so I'd like to ask the police minister that, if that's not a problem, I don't think there are many big white engines in Belgrade moving in groups, it happened between 27 March and Dalmatian Street. It would be good, and it would be important for the attackers, whom Mr. Vukovic was guilty, and by the way, and the spray was sprayed in his eyes, so that to this day man sees almost nothing. So, it would be good for these attackers to be caught, to tell the public who they are, who would be on the street to expand, whether political poisonings or political conflicts, we have no doubt of anyone precisely, it is clear that those who do not like the SRS and Vojislav Seselj. That's what they're entitled to, but with ballots. They have no right to do this. Please do, Mr. Jocic. It wouldn't be good if we were looking for them. Please don't make us do this. So we'll leave it to the police all the time to do it, so all the authorities can do it. I wouldn't want us to look for it, it wouldn't be good, it wouldn't be good for us either, and believe me, it wouldn't be good for them either. In any case, we will not allow anyone to harass our people who, in accordance with the law, fully legal, absolutely civilized one civil initiative, which, by the way, was signed by Velimir Ilic, and Nenad Canak and many others in this assembly who do not agree with us at all, Serbian radicals... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. I'm sorry, please, for taking so long... ... They're in completely different ideas. So, to attack people only because of their party membership or closeness with a particular political organisation, it's absolutely unacceptable. If, of course, the competent state authorities don't, we, I'm telling you now, will be forced, but believe me, sufficiently competent and successful to defend our own members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6183	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6184	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, the chairman, I have to ask Mr. Minister a question, it was not clear to me just now, when he cited that example with those two Croatian parents who declare to be Serbian for the child. With this citizenship as you now suggest, on the basis of a statement that someone is saying that he is a Serb and that he recognises the state of Serbia, he must absolutely be a subjective category. There is nothing you can do to prevent Muhammad Vukadinovic from saying he is a Serb or a Croat. Are you introducing any objective criteria over it or not? So everyone's right, if someone named Roger John Smith, if they say he's a Serb, you have to take him in. I'm just saying, there's no way that you're using some objective criteria to convince someone whether he's a Serb or not. Are you trying to make that citizenship really a category to be abused? What's the element of this procedure to even establish it? Do you establish any objective criteria, so you will seek and investigate blood cells - who is a Serb and who is not a Serb, political likeness, religion, how will this be determined? In this case, everyone has the right to declare that he is a Serb. I'd like you to say that it's just going to be some objective criteria to know, to introduce it into the law, not like we had yesterday, and then there's no procedure for the Finance Committee to choose the State Audit Committee, and it can be whoever it is you want on that audit committee. There's no explanation. Or you'll prescrib some kind of procedure. This is how we got the impression that you're going to extract blood cells, or you're going to have to accept whoever says he's a Serb and admits the state to Serbia, they're all Serbs and done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6185	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 225. A Rules of Procedure and a question for Mr. Minister. I'm interested in how business ability will be determined, when it became a qualified environment in law for those people who claim to gain Serbian citizenship, they lived abroad and how we can know if they have a business ability, or whether they've been deprived of their business ability. The second question, I didn't attend that part of the session when the debate was in principle, you, Mr. Minister, said that you would protect the data on obtaining citizenship, that is, only one who seeks citizenship will be able to take them. Does that mean we'll have one category of permanent citizens? Are we reintroducing some new script for the Balkan spy play? What does "secret citizenship" mean? How are they going to demonstrate, say, in the election? Will these people be included in the voter lists? Is that how the protection and secrecy of that information is lost? Where are they going to vote? The amendment adopted by the government has damaged the Constitution, but since we don't have a Constitutional Court, then none of it is a violation of the Constitution. I'm afraid that this law, or debate on this law, has turned into a senseless debate and a new competition in patriotism, and I don't think the assembly speaker should be a place for that, and especially not a legal regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6187	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a matter of status-law that I have to open here, given that it is very important to point out one fact, and the fact concerns the legislation of the former SFRY, which had in its foundation legal provisions under which the citizens of that country had two citizenships. One citizenship was SFRY and another Member State. The legal force of one citizenship and another citizenship was the same. What did the Croats do? In order to deprive certain citizens of the right acquired once, and above all to the Serbs, they passed a law that allowed them to take away both citizenship and to get a new citizenship of the new state, they passed a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, under which all citizens who felt they had to apply to the Croats, apply the documentation and get that right. What is the fate of former SFRY citizenship in Serbia? What legal act has the right to citizenship been denied by former SFRY citizens? No legal act. All former SFRJ citizens, and now live in Serbia, have the right to do so. Please, Minister and Secretary, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are in force, which oblige you to act in the administrative procedure and resolve the case within 30 days. In your secretaries of the former, now police administrations, departments of the MUP and today, you have dozens, not to say hundreds of thousands of cases that have not been brought to an end, or that is not followed by the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which oblige you to resolve the case in an open procedure of 30 days, or in an additional procedure of another 30 days. Therefore, refugees and all others who have addressed citizenship have been denied by the state authority in the administrative procedure to obtain a solution, negatively - negatively, with the legal direction to supplement, deliver, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6189	Miroslav Petkovic first, then Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the DSS-NS Parliamentary Group has attached three amendments to this bill, as well as the other parliamentary groups we have discussed on the Committee on Justice and on the Committees of this amendment. I'd like to read the amendments that we suggested and explain briefly. The amendment we have submitted to add a new Article 7a. which reads: "A member of the Serbian people who has a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has the right to be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, without dismissal from foreign citizenship, if he has turned 18 years of life and has not been deprived of his business ability and if he submits a written statement, that he considers the Republic of Serbia as his country. ''In the second position added to this article, from the conditions set out in Article 1, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia may be admitted to another nation or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The relevant 2004 law is quite liberal with regard to the acquisition of citizenship, but we believe that these proposed amendments need to be clarified and specified by some institutes. In addition, it should be kept in mind that in the Republic of Serbia both members of other peoples and ethnic communities and this amendment, it is also possible for them to declare within two years whether they want to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, we simply thought of all Serbs, whether they live in neighbouring countries, whether they live in Montenegro, Germany, America or Canada. They must be granted a permanent right to Serbian citizenship and to a Serbian passport, which has been fully and enabled by these amendments, under reduced conditions and because they are not required to be released from foreign citizenship. Also, one of the amendments that we have proposed is predicted to protect data for all those who wish to receive a Serbian passport. I am sure this law will be adopted by a large majority of votes in the National Assembly and I thank Minister Jocic once again for accepting the amendment of the DSS-NS parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6191	Thank you. According to the amendment, Branislav Nedimovic, a MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, in the past more than two hours, we have discussed amendments to amendments to the Law on Citizenship and have been retained on this amendment, which is, in fact, the key to these amendments and the addition of the law on citizenship. There are a few things to note. The amendment, proposed by counterpart Petkovic on behalf of the DSS, which was adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, certainly brings a great expansion of rights than was the previous law on citizenship. First of all, it is possible for all Serbs, regardless of whether they live in Montenegro, whether they live in the Republic of Serbia, whether they live in the US or Germany, all members of the Serb people living in the diaspora, are given the possibility, without forgiveness, to acquire Serbian citizenship. Why is that? Because in this way they can, in accordance with their will, accept Serbian citizenship, because they have that will. So far, they could possibly have problems in their countries, or where they are now as citizens, if they wanted to accept Serbian citizenship, they could suffer possible consequences in countries where they are currently located. The very important thing in view of the 2nd amendment is what, under the conditions laid down in Article 1, citizenship, the Republic of Serbia may be a member of another people or ethnic community in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, within a time period of two years. So in this way, this right was extended to all the peoples and ethnic communities, which was given to the Serbian people, which was guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is a very important status issue and it is certain that this whole debate, which is going on these days and which is going on today about this amendment, and here will be agreed by some of my colleagues, and who are nodding in favour of this important status issue, and it is good that we have discussed it this way, to come up with the best possible solutions, because I say, this is how we extend the rights given by the basic text of the Law on Citizenship. It's a very important thing. I'd like to make a point on two more important things. First of all, the refugee population, because I come from Srem, from Sremska Mitrovica, where a large number of refugees and displaced persons live. It is certain that the adopted law on citizenship could not have provided for all the situations that could arise. In this way, by extending this right, we also allow these people to gain Serbian citizenship and gain all the rights that come out of it. One more thing, perhaps at first sight, that doesn't have that much influence, and it's only about the economy. The amendments to this law will have reflections on many spheres of social life. We often say that we want the capital to arrive by our diaspora. Of course, we already have him, he arrives in Serbia and it is very good that Serbia has an economic growth greater than 7% per year. Surely we want to see more growth, and we want that capital coming from a foreign Serb alive to Serbia. But in this way, we will further support the will of our citizens living abroad, to come and invest in Serbia, because it will certainly be one stimulating gesture, one stimulating act that will surely succeed in our diaspora mobilizing to come to Serbia and invest in Serbia, besides all those who are currently investing here. I'd like one more thing, although it has nothing to do with this amendment, it's about data protection. The amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship and the adoption of the amendment by counterpart Petkovic are introduced in one quality way to protect these citizenship data from possible abuses and it is certainly one of the essential things to which this legislative proposal has been adopted. In the end, I would just like to say one more thing, pay attention to this amendment and to this law, and surely it is very important and certain that it is important to you, because in one systematic way one issue of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, referred to in Article 1, is that Serbia is the state of the Serbian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6193	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been waiting all day for the signator to come forward, not to say the applicant of the amendment, since Mr Jocic admitted that he is actually an amendment, and that someone from the DSS Group has come forward, to explain why an amendment that is so different from the SRS amendment was submitted, only that the minister and the government would not accept what our amendment is, and what essentially has to do with members of the self-called Montenegrin people. So, what did we hear? We heard Mr. Petkovic, especially Mr. Nedimovic, who mostly spoke here about the amendment I submitted and repeated part of what I was saying. I really don't see what the difference is then and what is unclear about this amendment, which says that the citizen of the Republic of Serbia is also considered a national of another country, a member of the Serb people, if he makes a written statement, that he is considered a member of the Serbian people and that Serbia is considered his country. What's the difference, Mr. Nedimovic, is that's exactly what you said, perhaps in other words. You said that this law, as amended, should apply to all Serbs, so that's what I said in the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. That story of some kind of economic effect, of course it doesn't have much to do with this law. That is what Mr Cedomir Jovanovic tried in his statement to explain in another way, that we want as many Serbian citizens as possible to take their taxes, which, of course, has nothing to do with the intention of the SRS, first because, unfortunately, in Serbia, we have a million citizens who have no job and do not pay taxes, they have nothing to pay taxes on, so it was no intention at all. On the other hand, what Mr. Nedimovic claims is that we will have more income from the diaspora and more investment in Serbia after this law, it is really peripheral and it is irrelevant. A lot of income from the diaspora could be talked about. There are a lot of data, and we will talk very quickly about this, about some resources from the diaspora that were sent to the government of Vojislav Kostunica even in that previous meeting, with concrete intentions where these funds should be spent, and now these same diaspora, or people who participated in it, are asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a report on where these funds have been spent. You think about diaspora all the time. No, that's not what the SRS thinks. (President: Time.) I'm done, Mr. Judjevich. Let me just point out once again that the essence of the SRS amendment is that all Serbs around the world, wherever they live, wherever they are born, if they want to, if they are declared in writing and say that the state also considers Serbia as their country, that the state allows them to enroll in the citizens' book. It's the only thing that we insist on, as usual, we never ask for anything and we never suggest something because behind it is something else, like you do. No, what it is is the position of the SRS, we make it clear and loud, and it's always exactly what we heard. Mr. Nedimovic, I repeat, everything I said, you said, in your own words. In fact, you have explained here my amendment, not Mr. Petkovic's amendment, which is incomplete and insufficient to achieve the urgency of amending this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6195	Replica, colleague Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6196	Mr. Krassic, don't be in such a hurry, I won't be long, just a few sentences. Mrs. Radeta, I absolutely stand by everything I said earlier. If you've been listening carefully to my exposure, I haven't said anything to you at all. I didn't speak that way at all to say that your amendment is bad. I was saying that the amendment of MP Miroslav Petkovic in one more detailed way worked matter, and above all regarding the matter of unconditional dismissal of citizenship, that it has the right of every person, a member of the Serb people, without firing from another citizenship, to become a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So that's what I said. Another thing about the economy, let's leave time for it to define how changes to this law will affect some economic flows, and don't put me in touch with members of some other parliamentary groups, because you know I don't think the way someone else thinks, so let me think the way the DSS Members are thinking. Once again, I would like to invite you to take another look at my colleague Miroslav Petkovic's amendment, and then you will see what I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6197	The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Ivica Dacic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, fellow Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the amendment to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship was submitted by Mr Ivica Dacic, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. He submitted an amendment to the first proposed law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship. The essence of the amendment submitted by Mr. Ivica Dacic, on behalf of the SPS, is exactly what we've been talking about for a little over two hours. The point of the amendment is that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, are considered all members of the Serbian people wherever they live. That's what we insisted on during the principle debate. I want, despite the fact that there has already been a lot of debate here and that, essentially, there is something in common, and that is that we are complex and that every Serb, wherever he lives, has the right to Serbian citizenship. That's what pleases us. I want to explain to the end the SPS's position. The government, in response to this amendment, has given one unnecessary explanation and one that brings us into a dilemma. The government, in its explanation, says it does not accept the amendment, because the Republic of Serbia, as a legal follower of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, has the obligation to make citizenship easier for all citizens resident in its territory, who, after the Republic of Montenegro has stepped out of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, have become non-citizens for it. I ask the Minister in absentia, what does this argument mean? We didn't question what was written at all. What was written was the essence of the first proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship. At that time, the concept was only to allow those who, after the referendum last year, stayed to live, or have a residence in Serbia, to gain citizenship. We said in the principle debate that it was necessary and that we had nothing to do with it. We agree, but it's not enough. We believe that amendments to the Law on Citizenship should have the other part, which is that all members of the Serbian people, wherever they live, have the right to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. If the government had stayed with that concept, as it had offered in the first proposed law on amendments to the law, this argument would have been understandable. But the government, which is well, has changed and accepted a comprehensive concept, which we have also advocated during the principle debate. Then this argument is too high. This second view was quite enough for the government to say "by accepting the amendment to Article 23 of the current law, the government has ensured that members of the Serbian people in the diaspora gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia without prior termination of foreign citizenship". That would already be enough to say -- you know what, we don't want your amendment, we don't want an amendment to the SRS, we want an amendment submitted by fellow DS MPs, and we don't mind. We also said in the principle debate - we are not vain, accept whatever amendment you want, but who in essence has this that all members of the Serbian people, wherever they live, have the right to citizenship. But the government, apart from showing something good, and it's good that in the meantime, it realized that it needed to be fully resolved by accepting the amendment, showed a bad relationship. The bad relationship is with all those who have advocated such a concept that the government has also accepted, and let's say she did not find it appropriate to sit down and -- let's now agree on the story that this solution is, since we all agree that this concept is good, let's now see what is the solution that's about the best. Then we'd avoid all these discussions. Such a business possibility exists, between the principle debate and the debate in particular, the committee shall have the right to propose an amendment to the text of the law. And if it were so done, if it were so agreed, we wouldn't have one strange situation right now if we had two laws, one proposed basic text of amendments to the law, which seems to me to have 19 members, and one other, which, meanwhile, appeared, with 21 members. How? So that of the 19 members was complemented by two new members, who were of course not known to the MPs that they had been completed until we received this report and we now have the situation that we have proposed amendments, and have become an integral part of the law, so the amendment and addition of the Law contains 21 members. The question now arises what about this amendment that we have submitted when it is an amendment relating to Article 16, and the Government has already introduced a new Article 7a, which has already passed before the debate on this amendment and adoption. I don't think it's a good procedure, and that the government, in particular, if she showed good faith, if she accepted that the concept she offered wasn't enough and that this formulation that was discussed was also needed, and the essence of the fact is that members of the Serbian people, wherever they lived, had the right to citizenship, could have done so through one correct agreement with those, the amendments were submitted by DS, the SRS and the SPS, could agree and the story would have been concluded, because there is no fundamental difference. However, regardless, we are satisfied, we wanted in the principle debate to point out, our goal, whoever submitted the amendment, is no matter how much you think you should accept someone else, not ours or not, whose essence is essential to us, and the essence is that members of the Serbian people, wherever they live, have the right to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we're happy with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6199	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Batic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and another question for the minister. Has the adoption of the amendment, which has become an integral member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Citizenship, taken into account the comparative practice in the case of dual citizenship, been kept in the account of the possible consequences for people who would become Serbian citizens? No, because some countries do not allow dual citizenship, so people who want and have their citizenship, to gain Serbian citizenship, can lose many status rights in those countries, among other things, the right to work, that is, to work. So I'm asking if it's been taken care of, and apparently it's not. That's one thing. Secondly, while I am behind the speaker, to say that unfortunately Mr Tomislav Nikolic, speaking about elections abroad, about what was going on in the past and let's say about the relationship to the diaspora, mentioned that DHS had sent observers to our diplomatic missions abroad to threaten as election controllers abroad. It's simply not true, it's not true for the simple reason that we've been against such a selective way of holding foreign elections as a party, so DHS and Priors have been, for the simple reason we've never had registered voter lists of our people in the diaspora. And I repeat, we were against the presence of controllers in such elections. I do not dispute that some other DOS members have sent their controllers, but I speak only on behalf of the DHS and now I have just told Mr Nikolic out of this room. Says some parties, possibly, not slow, very likely, but DHS isn't. Speaking of diaspora, one more thing, there's not much to worry about diaspora. We have some conventions, gatherings, where honey and milk are promised, but on the other hand, our relationship with our countrymen in the diaspora is more or less disastrous. I immediately notice several people from abroad, no matter what anyone thinks about them, who tried to invest here, simply came up with them. Some, like Milan Panic, led disputes before arbitration in Paris and won, Divac gave up participation in those malversions, whose creator was Dinkic and his friends, about the privatisation of Knjaz Milos. We have now had a case with Traveller and Mr. Srb Ilic, whom Djelic does not want to return to the Traveller, and yet this dispute is lost before the arbitration in Paris. I only repeat that this relationship with the diaspora and the motivation of the diaspora is completely inadequate, with much more than that old diaspora, I think of these people who went back years young, smart, educated and it's a tragedy for a country, but again because of this and this government and government are increasing ranks in front of the embassies. So much, let's be rational and see what gets and what gets lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6201	The reply to Mr Batic's public envoy's presentation has a National MP, Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would agree with one part of my predecessor's exposure when it comes to diaspora. Unfortunately, we as a state have treated our people quite irresponsiblely who have had to go abroad for various reasons. There's also the part that had to go for economic reasons, but there's also the part that had to leave the country because it beat one side and it cost us, to the most part, our relationship with the diaspora exclusively based on ideology. Those who were opponents of the regime in Serbia, they were treated not as our citizens, but as opponents of our country, and it caused us great damage. For almost half a century, this country's relationship to the people that our own were dominant. Unfortunately, it extended later and extended to the largest time during the DOS, as the DOS also referred to our citizens abroad as people who were in favour of the regime or against the regime. That's the biggest problem. At a time when they believed that one part of these citizens abroad was influenced by propaganda, in some way by a potential DOS electoral body, they put our citizens, our diaspora into the electoral lists, and gave them the opportunity to appear as voters and vote in our consular representations. Unfortunately, that was said by Tomislav Nikolic, many DOS parties have used this right, not only from DOS but also from outside DOS, as was the party of the SPO foreign minister, believe me, I don't have that information now, but since I follow the election results, to normally follow this election procedure when it comes to reporting controllers to polling stations, we are like a party that takes care of the state and the interests of the state, and the interest of the state is that some things are not economically unwarranted, thinking that sending observers from Serbia is insane. That you from Belgrade are sending for Toronto, Chicago, Melbourne and I am not telling everyone where the polling stations are opened, and when, after the elections, approximately, see how many votes the party received, they have sent more members of the election committees than they have received voters. That's the problem. Some parties are not in this parliament, and when Tomislav Nikolic said small parties, I suppose Mr Batic was the first in his sight, as an apparent small party, and he mentioned it in that sense, but of course there is data exactly for every party that she sent and how many people she sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6203	The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vlad Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6204	I have made an amendment for the reason that gaining citizenship can't be just a privilege, but it should be a duty. As I was saying earlier, this is like courting a new potential electoral body and a lot of politics, and this story of the adopted amendment has further confirmed. The point of the amendment is that people have certain obligations, that, for example, they report their assets here, that they pay taxes here, because we have many people, the government's favorites, who were Montenegrin citizens, are reported in Montenegro, they allegedly have no business and no property, they don't pay taxes. They collect billions here, they don't pay taxes because they're reportedly reported there, and they're supposed to pay taxes there. The case of Vojin Lazarevic has been reported. What do we do with these people, and we have an even worse situation, that they don't have to have a place here either, or that they had one, with this amendment. Nationality can't be just a privilege, it has its own obligations. I wanted those obligations to be stressed. If Serbia, gentlemen, is in your heart, report your property here, pay taxes here, and not publicly, not to be a secret citizen, Alexa Cvorovic is trampling Serbia again. What does the story of secret citizens mean? He'll just know he's a secret citizen. He is ashamed and must not say publicly - I am a Serbian citizen, because in Montenegro he will bus into his chest that he is a citizen of Montenegro and has nothing to do with Serbia. You can't do that. If somewhere public is necessary, transparency, it's when someone's a citizen. He should be proud to say he is a Serbian citizen, not to hang out there in some halls and say to see if he has or isn't there anymore. Minister Jocic said something that is unimaginable in the real world, that secrecy will be guaranteed. So, people, we're going to have conspiracies, who are going to be swimming at some point. Well, that's why he hasn't been my intern for a long time, since you've been provoking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6205	National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6206	It is obvious that these remarks concerning the Minister of Interior and his knowledge are probably partly stemming from those first days of his professional training, because this amendment requires that 'when he submits a written statement that he is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and reports in Serbia his property and incomes and a request for registration in the register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. ''He should also say then - I will not kill, I will not steal, I will not avoid, so all that is already in the laws that bind all citizens of Serbia, or citizens of Serbia. Why should we just limit ourselves to this problem? We have a much bigger problem with some who are citizens of Serbia, but represent the interests of just these separatists and Milo Djukanovic from Montenegro, allegedly arguing for some things, and are essentially in favour of Milo Djukanovic's politics and the possibility of Milo Djukanovic achieving its political goals in Serbia. The most drastic example was when we were here asking the question of Bishop Fillarrett. I'm sorry to be back on the subject, but I didn't want to go out at the time, but now I'm going to tell you what this is about. Many have come out here, talked about everything, about the moral-political likeness of Ruler Filaretta, about his character and work and so on, but they essentially didn't want to say one thing, which was most important in all of this, that in Europe there is a state that violates human freedoms and rights in the most drastic way. Just because someone's voiced their suspicions, there are sanctions. Well, please, not even in the states, let me say, in which the dictatorship of any kind is, it was formally considered to be a verdict, and based on a verdict to deprive some individual's rights. And here only because someone suspects human rights and freedoms are being violated. We had that, unfortunately, in our history, so-called. Left turn. Mosha Pijade was one of the relatives of such a way of thinking and doing the will of a party, or force. He defined it, enemies and potential enemies, especially in Montenegro, all those who were thought to be potential enemies, could have been executed even by the death penalty, not to mention other things. That, unfortunately, continues in Montenegro, but by the regime. If it had been done in Serbia, the whole world would have stood up. One church dignitary is violated by fundamental human rights and freedoms. And here's the story of the character and his work, whether he needs it or not. I see, sometimes, unfortunately, the church was in such a position as to determine who the patriarch would be, so they had to pick him out of their hats. Looks like some of us can't get rid of those habits to do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6207	Thank you. Following the same amendment, counterpart Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6208	The applicant for the amendment wanted to say something with this amendment text. Before we really interpret what he was going to say, and I doubt that's what he just said from this pay phone, I have to say that this could never go through, as far as this amendment is concerned, because in that relationship between a natural person and his legal relationship with the state, it's just too important that his obligations to the state are above all. You have there at the discharge to seek proof that the settlers have reached tax obligations, etc. It is the only link where the state, while taking care of its incomes, condition the layoff if these incomes are settled, that is, those obligations that the citizen has that has asked for discharge from citizenship. It is inappropriate for such a formulation to define something as a condition for obtaining citizenship, because if this would lead to 'logining in Serbia its assets and revenues', it is not clear to me whether only the property and revenues it has in Serbia or not. There's a commitment. According to tax regulations, every citizen is required to report his assets for payment of property taxes. Every citizen is obliged, which is directly indirectly, but always counts as a citizen, to keep records and pay taxes neatly on the income of citizens, regardless of the form of that tax. These are certain obligations arising not only from the fact of citizenship, but from the fact that it is resident or not resident of a state. I'm trying to tell you that this could not possibly be in the law of citizenship, but Mr. Batic has opened an interesting topic here. We can hypothetically imagine what would happen. Milo Djukanovic has been a good subject of the interest of Italian judicial authorities for 15 years. I seem to have notified the public once from this pay phone, but it is no problem for me to say that again, he was the subject of their highest court's interest, as the prosecution requested an answer to the question whether the immunity of Montenegro's president was valid abroad. Then they said no, only in Montenegro. When abroad, based on the principles of international criminal co-operation, they can pack it and finish the job. That's why he hasn't been anywhere for years, poor guy, or traveled, and if he went abroad, then it had to be a big guarantee, security. It is theoretically possible that Mr Djukanovic would like to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I know that the very fact that his signature is seen on some paper, that it says that he wants to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, that he is considered a Serb, etc., can cause some kind of reaction, whether positive or negative, but in any case, there will be astonishment. I can take another example, which would not be an astonishment from the point of view of origin, is Svetozar Marovic. It is originating in Lastva Grbaljska, the coat of arms, the most Serbian part of all Serbian countries, is not now the Shumadi, as you share, but absolutely. They still talk there when our peasants come and think of the Chetniks. He's from that family, but he's Latin. It's like he drank helium, they've got pure Roman Catholic, Latin; Latini, don't ever believe it, it'll always fool you. You know he's been in Belgrade for a long time. He's done a lot of things. I hear there's a son here, I guess that's where his son lives. And he can apply for our citizenship. So there's this ethnic factor, there's this factor called residence, and from the point of view of the law, regardless of what's going on in Serbia, but compared to respecting the law in Montenegro, you're two percent better. Those two percent are decisive for him. Now I'm putting in this story, say, and Lucky Kestner. It's a famous friend of the tobacco mob. He spoke in Switzerland, explained how it was done, who taught them, who stood by, mentioned who in Serbia did it, how much Djindjic over Micunovic was given in 1996 to preserve demonstrations under Jovica Stanisic's orders, which he brought in bags. It's all described, you know what you've been doing, there's no more strangers. This has already been published in books and is found in court files, not only in the country but abroad. I get the impression that Mr Batic wanted to distract all of us with this amendment. What he was saying about the secret electoral lists and the secret list of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he has some knowledge and has not come out fairly here to tell us what it is. Now I'm guessing he may have some knowledge that some have become rich in Serbia, through Serbia, because they were supposed to be citizens of another republic, so they had some protection. That wouldn't surprise me, because I know in 2000, and almost, when it was their referendum, all the officers Milo sent here were going to do their civic duty in Montenegro in 2006 to be independent. Mr. Batic means that there is this malignancy. It is based on the following, the people usually interpret it this way - the cabbage looks, the meat pulls out. I get the impression that we here somehow in Serbia are either very naive, or we're genetically stupid or somebody really needs to shut us all down and beat us up. I really think so, because I don't see rational behavior. He's gone, the minister. He ran away because of it. Their concept of law is based on the protection of elected people, not everyone living outside Serbia, is of Serbian origin and wants to be a Serbian citizen, and wants to be a Serbian citizen in order to protect Serbia. He doesn't care about those people. You know when these people are gonna be interested? If the patriarch Paul had sent these words to Tadic in one letter. We killed ourselves for four years for those diapers, you remember, those amendments, and you can't, and over here, and over there. Patriarch writes two sentences, the government changes their mind. We've been killing, killing, changing your mind, there's no way you're changing your mind. Non-noble persons affecting the government, MPs do not affect the government at all. So this is where there's a special category. I find it a little strange that Mr Batic is doing this, because I know when it was in 2003, independent Montenegro, the most drastic on the subject were Batic and others, I will not mention others, because they are very nervous, but in that financial part one performed and in time warned people about what would happen to Montenegro. No matter what my political opponent, he was right at the time, explained to DOS what would happen, who should be a state agent, why they couldn't be etc., but that's your record thing, I don't care. But those whom Djukanovic has given passenger cars to lead in Serbia an independent Serbia campaign, they are now protecting themselves in this way, they are thus portrayed as being the protectors of the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, which confuses us. I know that some of the "audies" got Batic, and I know that Hashim Thaci gave some money. Not only Chaddy, he gave it to others. They went to the Grand Hotel to make deals, do things. And when he slaps that amount of strange heart to which, at first glance, you can't react, there's nothing you can do to blame Batica for what he was saying. Almost nothing, a beautiful lullaby. Then it's on, let's take a look, get off the surface of the dust, see what the background is. The background is that people had a fight over money, very simple and simple. Basically, there's money, so we're clear. Some interested group found that they were disturbed by this other interest group. In finding the reason for the attack, it can come from that and where his grandfather was. You just heard someone say "sniffle," don't "sniffle," that's our national instrument, where we're lucky to have a gusli academy, the Bulgarians have a gypsies academy, you're attacking geese, aman, I don't know what that's like? You're attacking something that is the traditional value of the Serbian people. The other day, he was attacking a tickler, and now they're squirming. Don't, and I'll calm you down, just like I calmed Djelic down. He advertised his bank over the one that said, "More Marco, don't plow the road." And, one day I meet him here in the hallway, a year and a half ago, and I say - Djelic, come here, is that your bank; well, you know, this, that; whether Kraljević Marko is a historical person; he says, is; whether Zoran Djindjic is a historical person; well he is not yet, but he is; well, when I am in power, the videos for my bank have to be how the government of Zoran Djindjic shares drugs and shares money. The next day, they broke off the "Marie Marco, not the Ori Roads" videos. Don't touch my geese, don't touch my land, don't break my country, don't touch my spoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6209	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16(3) of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Master Dejan Mirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6210	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 16. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship should be adopted for the following reasons. The Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe in Article 1 states: "The protection of national minorities and the rights and freedoms of members of these minorities is an integral part of international protection of human rights and as such falls within the area of international co-operation. "On the other hand, according to the 2003 census in Montenegro, Serbs were a minority in Montenegro, and Serbs accounted for 31.9% of the total population of 198,000. So, when we look at these facts, it is clear that Serbia as a member of the Council of Europe has the right to care for the Serb minority in Montenegro. Of course, the provisions of this Framework Convention of the Council of Europe should be applied within the meaning of Article 2 in good faith, in the spirit of understanding and tolerance, and in accordance with the principles of good neighbouring countries, friendly relations and co-operation. In this context, the SRS adopted a declaration on the rights of Serbs in Montenegro, which is now calling for the principles set out in the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law also calls for the 1997 European Convention on Citizenship, but also the provisions of that Convention give our country the right to settle the issue of dual citizenship, as foreseen in the amendment to Article 16. It's a bill of law. For example, in Article 1. The Convention provides that each country, by its own right, should provide for provisions on who its citizens are. Also, in Article 7. The European Convention on Citizenship states that there should be a real link between the State of the Contracting Party and the resident citizen abroad. In Article 18, which regulates the issue of state and citizenship succession, the first principle provides for a real and effective link between the person and the state. So this member is now regulating the situation that took place in 2006. When we look at these international provisions and the reality in Montenegro, it is clear that there is a real link between the Serb minority in Montenegro and Serbia. In this context, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe and its provisions can serve as the basis for defining this real link. More specifically, the Framework Convention in Article 5 provides for the obligation to improve the conditions necessary for the maintenance and development of the culture of members of national minorities and to preserve the national elements of religion, language and tradition. So that's the definition of a real relationship that needs to be applied to the Law on Citizenship. It stems from only Serbs in Montenegro having an actual relationship with Serbia. For example, Serbs in Montenegro are believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church, not some other newly established organisations or associations. Serbs in Montenegro speak Serbian. On the other hand, some senior state officials in the neighbouring country claim that there is a Montenegrin language. If so, it's two different languages. There can't be two different languages, or one language with two names. Therefore, the amendment does not enter into the scientific justification of these claims of new languages, the amendment is solely based on the reality in Montenegro that produces one political will dominant in this neighbouring country. In this respect, the amendments also support the provisions of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages of 1992, as well as Article 10. Serbia's constitution, which prescribes that Serbian language is officially used in the Republic of Serbia. As regards tradition and cultural heritage, which is also foreseen in Article 5. The Council of Europe Framework Conventions, and there is a real link between the Serb minority in Montenegro and the state of Serbia. On the other hand, there is a political reality in the neighbouring country of Montenegro, which forces a different interpretation of tradition and culture. This interpretation is represented by some high-ranking state officials, numerous media, newly established organisations and associations. In this sense, it is claimed that the difference between Serbian tradition and culture and this other Dukljanska exists from a period of thousands of years ago. So this is also a political reality. Therefore, as arguments to accept the amendments, we will not cite the historical results of the 1909 census, nor the ones of 1921, nor the words from the interview of Milovan Gilas, given to French "Mondu" in the early 1970s, nor do we want to define someone to plead. The basic argument is the reality in Montenegro. Amendment to Article 16. The draft law should also be adopted because of the provisions laid down in Article 17. Framework conventions of the Council of Europe, which provide for the right of members of national minorities to establish free and peaceful ties across the border with persons legally staying in other countries, especially those with common ethnic, cultural, linguistic or religious identity or common cultural heritage. Therefore, European international standards give the legislator the right to adopt the amendment to Article 16. Also, we do not dispute the amendment's good intentions to Article 23, but this adopted amendment essentially does not change anything. It is a failed attempt to compromise between our amendments and the solutions that already exist in the law. In that sense, the amendment is also far from the reality that exists in Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator claims an urgent procedure is necessary to regulate the status of about 260,000 Montenegrin citizens living in Serbia. I agree that this is a very important question. It is certainly necessary to regulate the position of these people, these are our citizens, but it should be pointed out that they were to be cared for in 2006. They had no right to vote in the referendum, although this right was guaranteed by numerous international conventions. For example, the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the ban on restrictions on election law of 2005. The resolution recommends members of the Council of Europe to "provide electoral rights to all citizens without imposing conditions of residence". Also, Article 25. The international pact on civil and political rights guarantees the right for every citizen to vote and be elected. In this sense, the political and malicious interpretation of the Venice Commission that the Council of Europe resolution does not apply to Serbia-Montenegro is an example of double standards. At the same time, the provision laid down in Article 5 has been adopted. The law on the voter lists of Montenegro, which reads: "The voter list also lists citizens who reside abroad according to their last residence before going abroad." So there was an absurd situation that the citizens of Montenegro who lived in Serbia had no right to vote in the referendum, and those who lived in Australia or America did. That's why 260,000 people, who would likely vote for the common state, are left without the right to vote. In this context, the following questions are asked - should this referendum have been held? Was the EU a well-intentioned mediator or should the Russian Federation be required to intervene? Is success, as it claims in our public, that after 88 years we lost our way out to the sea? Either way, these questions will be answered by history. That's why the future needs to be turned around. You don't need to be burdened with past events or those of the '90s. Now reality is different. International circumstances have changed. Russia is a great force again. Its economic policy depends on the whole of the EU. International law and many international conventions are on our side. So nothing dramatic will happen if we give citizenship to Serbs in Montenegro. In this way, we would sort of correct the 2006 mistake, when it is only possible for double standards to be applied in the case of Serbia-Montenegro alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6211	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment, proposing that a new Article 16a be added after article 16. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. As we no longer have amendments, I conclude the review of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I suggest we take a break by 2:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6212	We'll continue our work after the break. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON THE AMENDMENTS AND APPROVAL OF THE DUVAN You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: Petar Jojić, Nebojsa Stefanović, Vjerica Radeta, Veroljub Arsić, Srboljub Živanović, Milorad Krstin, Zoran Krasić, Slavko Jerković, Jadranko Vuković, Marina Ragus, Saša Valjarevic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Momir Marković, Jorvanka Tabaković, Dejan Mirović, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Dragan Zivkov, Radiša Ilic, Aleksandar Martinović and Zoran Antić. You have received the amendment submitted by the Government. You have received the Government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. You received a letter informing the Government that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly, when considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tobacco Act, was appointed Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic is not in the O.R. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Stefanovic want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6213	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 that effectively reduces administration in terms of reporting by manufacturers and tobacco processors. I'll read you an entire article: "Face entered in the registers of Article 5 paragraph 1 point 3-6 of this law are not entered in the register of Article 6 paragraph 1 of this Act, they are obliged to deliver half-yearly... - My shift is "annual." - "... the data reports on which the records are kept no later than 15... - "I suggested "30 days" - "... from the date of expiry of the period for which the report is submitted. "The member goes on, but these are the changes I consider necessary. The government did not accept my amendment, noting that in such a way it was made impossible, in terms of the Excise Act, the tobacco administration to carry out the tasks provided for by this law, that 'the half-yearly proposal to the Government was the most popular price of tobacco products to determine excise duty, etc.' That would be true if I agreed with the government's policy on the Excise Act. The SRS does not consider that the Excise Act that has been passed is good and we believe that in this law too, especially given that the tobacco law, which we are talking about today, cannot be seen in general until we consider it in terms of the adoption of the CEFTI Agreement and that is, in fact, the essence of what it is. Since my amendment is only one in a series of amendments, which you will hear more from my other colleagues, which the SRS has submitted to the tobacco law, wanting to correct what we consider to be a bad law. The purpose of the adoption of the tobacco law is, in fact, to reduce the obligation to buy or manufacture domestically processed tobacco, tobacco products to some 1,600 tonnes, or to amend the Government to 1,200 tonnes per year, and from 1 January, in fact, there will be no more obligation under the law of buying out domestic tobacco. That's how it comes out to local cigarette manufacturers. However, it is significantly damaged by tobacco producers. Although the government says that in some cases there are no, in some situations, sufficient quantities of quality tobacco varieties to produce cigarettes, the question is why. There may be some weather damage, so it can be reduced annually by a certain quota, which can be understood. However, essentially and strategically, without state investment, which will be prevented by signing, i.e. ratification of the CEFTA agreement, because this will be considered as unfair competition, without essential state participation in helping tobacco producers, as well as in other strategic products in Serbia, which we have talked about a lot, it will be difficult for these people to have serious production and it will be difficult for them to survive and feed their families. Remember, when we talked about the tobacco law, we mentioned the bad consequences of the small customs duties we had, only 15% of the imports of cigarettes, while for example. Croatia had 38% at the same time, the EU 57%, leading to Croatia, for example. Serbia is importing 11.3m euros in cigarettes without Serbia exporting a single euro, not a single cigarette to Croatia. The company Philip Morris, which operates in Croatia and Serbia, although it has 11 to 15% of the market, imported cigarettes from the EU in Croatia because it was far more profitable, although the factory in Serbia is much closer. I'm speaking again in connection with the CEFTA agreement, and it'll be a shame for Serbia if the excise duties stay on this level, and customs are gone. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I will repeat once again, the essence of what I propose here is the fact that these people are going to have to submit to the competent state authorities, and the government should work better and closer together with manufacturers and those who process tobacco, have much better cooperation with them and predict how it will move, so they will have much better insight into what kind of excises to suggest and what to do in this area. So, the state needs to pay attention, this is a strategic area for Serbia, such as oil production, Serbia has to pay much more attention and protect domestic production, but also to protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because you know that excise duties are one of the ways in which the budget is most charged, as well as in any other country. But with what is planned, both this law and what is planned, by ratification of the CEFTI agreement, the state budget will be significantly damaged in the coming years, not only by the state budget, which is of course very important, because it depends on many state budget users, but also tobacco producers themselves, which we think is really important. We do not worry too much about multinational companies, but about manufacturers, but we need to ask ourselves, and what kind of message we are sending about people who have come to invest, according to the law's already proposed, more than a billion dollars in the previous few years in the cigarette industry and in general tobacco and tobacco processing in Serbia. So the question is, what kind of signal we send to other producers, when this is how we destroy one such investment. Of course, we need to protect the domestic manufacturer and we need to protect the direct tobacco producer who lives in fact by his work, feeds the family and pays for all his contributions. Also, when I say so, it should be borne in mind that tobacco and in general tobacco and industry that are engaged directly or indirectly over 130,000 people in Serbia, which is about 6% of Serbia's employees. That's what worries about what kind of blow this is going to be to these people and how many of them are going to be out of a job. In the difficult economic situation in which Serbia is present today, I think this is a very serious issue and that it takes much more attention to do so, and richer and more serious economists, both on the side and in other countries, give a negative view of such moves, as they take place in our or in other countries. Even serious papers dealing with the economy have written about it, especially about the economic burden the state will bear, since, for example, the structure of income, when viewed by the largest businesses in Serbia, sees it as an example. The largest net profit of 4.66 billion dinars just had a DIN - tobacco factory from Nis. So, when you take all this into account and everything we talked about about the tobacco law, and I say this is my amendment and only the first of the 20 amendments that the SRS has submitted, in order to correct what is proposed by this law and to improve the position of the manufacturer, and to protect the Republic of Serbia, and to protect the citizens, but also the large companies that invest here, because we really want foreign investment, because that provides new jobs for the citizens of Serbia. I call for you to adopt this amendment, as well as other amendments to the SRS, and try to truly fight for the citizens of Serbia, for their better lives and for something that will really remain for them and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6214	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Radeta want a tail? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6215	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, one piece of information for the public, so that it doesn't turn out that the MPs are inconclusive. We sat in the hall for 25 minutes waiting for Minister Milosavljevic, for the record. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the law on tobacco and amendments that I have filed on behalf of the parliamentary group on this law, it is necessary first to say a few principles. This law was adopted in 2005, changed in 2006 and changed here in 2007. It is indeed becoming degutant, and particularly unserious that we have been in this House for several years now making single-use laws. As a lawyer, of course, I understand that the laws of living matter, that laws are changed, complemented, that situations in society arise when necessary, but to pass one law and each year change it to the least is unserious. To the soul, you ministers weren't responsible at the time, but to expect that this would be a change and a supplement for some long time. There is now something strange about the government to the MPs. We received the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law on June 15th of this year, and was then told that a representative of the Government in the Assembly was appointed Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance. Now we get, today, 18. 9, a notice from the government where it tells us, you received a proposal and we inform you about this that, when considering the proposed law, it was decided by Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. This is a hoax. So, the government is right and has appointed Minister Cvetkovic at the time and has the right to, in the meantime for some reasons, Minister Cvetkovic may not be in Serbia and has some other obligations and it is all something we can understand and understand. But then the government should have said nicely - because Minister Cvetkovic cannot attend the National Assembly session, Minister Milosavljevic will represent the government in the discussion of details. Then that's fine. The government can't say three months later that the government's representative was appointed as the minister who's here today. So much for the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the amendment that I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it refers to Article 3, where we have proposed that a new position on 2 is added after Article 1, which is said to be deleted in Article 7 of the basic law. Article 3 refers, of course, to these amendments to the law, and Article 7 of the basic law, where I propose that paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted, refer to Article 1, 2 and 3: ''The person entered in the registers referred to in Article 5, point 1. 1) and 2) of this law are obliged to provide three-month reports to the Ministry of Agriculture concerning the information on which they keep records referred to in Article 1(1). ''St. 4th is that ''case 3 reports of this member shall be delivered no later than 10 days from the date of expiry of the period for which the report is to be delivered. '"Why did we propose an amendment to delete these two attitudes? First of all, for a principled reason and to show, both the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, that the SRS has a principled view on every issue, that the SRS is, for the respect of the law, for the application of rights, for legal certainty, for the rule of law, not only declaratively, but for real and for real. Why am I stressing this? Because the SRS, when we brought these so-called. Your reform laws in these last seven years and when you have installed in every law adopted in this House either a directorate, or some administration, agency, we have always said that we are clear and that you are doing so to employ as many staff and activists as possible of your parties. The larger the coalition in the government, the greater the need for various agencies, administrations, etc. So we're basically absolutely against parallel ministries, because what you've introduced as a newspaper in our legal system is parallel ministries. On the other hand, if the congregation majority passed such a law, then we in the SRS will always advocate the application of that law, no matter how much it may be and no matter how much we disagree with it. When the time comes, we'll change the law. As long as we don't have the opportunity to change the law, we insist that the law is respected. If you have provided for tobacco management in the basic law, then there is no need for the competent ministry to take over from that tobacco management. The government and the competent ministry, according to basic law, only exercise control and control of the work of the Administration, and do not do its job. So, Minister Milosavljevic, please state, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that there is no Administration, which the SRS agrees with, but that you do your job exclusively to the ministry, or you keep the ministry, but then you give the work of the Administration to do. You can't mix grandmothers and frogs. He can't do both. We need to get this thing straight. Here's what the government says why it doesn't accept the amendment I filed on behalf of our parliamentary group. "Amendment is not accepted because the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs, within the framework of its work round defined by the Ministry Act, is running a policy of development and financing of primary production and treatment of tobacco, for which it is necessary to have continuous data on manufacturers and tobacco processors in the Republic of Serbia." So this argument has nothing to do with the essence of the amendment that I've submitted. In the light of the amendments, I have written to you that it is the jurisdiction of your ministry, automatically and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You and this member have shown your indiscipline, you have shown that you do not know what you want, that you do not seem to read the laws, do not follow the continuity of your own government, which is necessary, no matter who was in the coalition in the previous government, in which you are now. Are you here in some non-contract or in some misunderstanding with the part of the government of Vojislav Kostunica from the previous term, that's your problem. This wouldn't be a single case, not a single case. We hear every day about how many of you in the government of Vojislav Kostunica behave like horns in a bag. We follow in the media, the one group minister has a completely diametric opinion on an important state issue from a minister from another group within the government. But these are your statements which, of course, as politicians and we comment on and we make certain conclusions based on them, but when we talk in the National Assembly about the bill, then we have to keep an eye on, above all, the MPs, of course, all of them, but the lawyers should certainly take care that, at least what is a flagrant violation of some legal principle, cannot be incorporated into the law. You're passing laws, and this is one of the examples, which are, in fact, inapplicable. What are you going to do, as Minister, with the director of the administration, to knock down the arm, who's stronger, and who's going to do this job? The law must be decadent, clear, precise, legal norm in the law must also be clear, and not now someone needs to read five regulations to figure out what you wanted to say here. Mr. Minister, I call on you to accept this amendment, because when you think about it a little bit better, you'll see that this amendment is really, I'd say more like legal-technical regulation of the text of the law, it doesn't go into the essence of any basic law, nor these amendments and the additions that you've proposed. So to have a law that really has one legal form, to have a law that can be applied without any doubt, accept this amendment will be much easier for you. I don't know who's going to be the one who's going to arbitration between you and management who's going to do this. You know, in one law you have to do this management, in another law you have to do you. Who's the arbiter who's going to say, by noon, the Ministry will be working, will be working the administration or vice versa? This isn't serious, Mr. Secretary. You may not even be responsible, given that Mr Cvetkovic was in charge of the bill, but again I assume that in the Government, except that you are discussing the ministers' and assistant ministers' salaries, that sometimes you are discussing some of the bill's proposals before you propose them to the MPs. If the minister does not accept this amendment, I call on fellow Members to look at and compare what I have said and what we have written, you will see that it is indeed a very logical amendment. I suggest you vote on this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6216	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6217	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in connection with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to request a notice from Mr. Secretary. In fact, Vojvodina's past months have been hit by an unremembered drought that has caused enormous damage to agricultural producers in Vojvodina. Of course, members of the Hungarian national minority were particularly damaged by this drought because a large number of our community members are engaged in agricultural production. In some villages, this drought has taken over the situation of a natural disaster. A few 40 days ago, the president of our party sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to Mr. Minister, in which we presented this problem and in which we sought and offered some possible solutions, so this way I would like to ask Mr. Minister what measures the Government will take on this problem, is it ready to approve some tax relief, reduction of contributions, debt reprogramming or other measures?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6218	National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since October 5th, it seems that it has become a practice of forming a double organ in the authorities of the state administration, so other than the ministry, we have various agencies, we have formed various administrations, so here we have the tobacco administration. The tobacco administration, according to the law itself, which in Article 4 says it is required to care about the production, transport of tobacco and tobacco processing. Article 7, to which I have submitted the amendment, is about the records to be kept, to which they are kept, to whom they are registered and who is responsible for the adoption of forms to be completed during certain applications. I must say that this law was passed when the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic and there is no law, and there is no area in which that man did not get involved. He's a superman, literally gone. Here is now that you look at which ministry he runs, he interferes with employment, and in the programmes for the unemployed, etc., and we have a competent ministry that needs to work. This is where Mr Dinkic, in basic law, asked that he be the one to ask for everything and who will decide everything. The amendment was rejected by the government's argument, which says the amendment is rejected ''for the reasons it is in accordance with the applicable regulations governing the work of the state administration, administrations as bodies within the ministry are not responsible for the adoption of sublegal acts'. Is that right? If Article 4 paragraph 1 point 10 is looked at, the administration is involved in the creation of sublegal acts to implement the provisions of this law. ''In Article 7, where I submitted the amendment, the administration is not mentioned anywhere, but simply said - ''The Minister in charge of Finance Affairs is closer to regulations the content and manner of keeping records by the tobacco product manufacturer. On whose suggestion? On your own. Is that the job of a minister? Of course not, it's the ministry's business. The finance ministry should work, not the minister as an individual, as a civil servant, as an official of this National Assembly. To see the senselessness of such provisions of the law, it is already seen in Articles 83 and 84 of the Law, where it is well stated who is responsible for the control and implementation of this law. It is said that a Republic market inspector is competent, he is the one who will oversee law enforcement and how decisions under this law are respected. Is the finance minister in charge of the market-based republican inspection? It's not. In Article 84, powers shall be conferred on the market inspector. Is the finance minister responsible for the work of the market inspector? It's not. And why in that same Article 7, which is covered by the amendment, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Minister of Agriculture, because you confused the Ministry and the Minister, you kind of evened it out, is the one that prescribes certain forms, and the old agricultural republican inspector is applied to them directly. That's what you say in article 80. So, for the implementation of this law, one minister cannot prescribe, another ministry that it is competent, and a third body to exercise and control. The whole story about you wanting to establish control over the production, processing and traffic of tobacco processing is falling into the water. You just wanted to create a monopoly where the small ones would disappear, where you would give benefits to large traders, large processors, large producers, to remove their competition and thus allow them to make more money on this job. Even EU countries, which have a regulated tax system, which have much more regulated product control than Serbia, have problems with tobacco products, because it is excise goods, where there are high rates of fiscal giving and where the benefit for every illegal trade is high. So they did not deal with the problem of forming various administrations, where they would hire their party councilmen, give them bread and allow them to make abuses, but they were trying to solve the whole problem through a single body that controls everything. Here you have literally ruined the law by the different ministers making decisions, the other ministers will implement them, the third ministers will control them. How does this government work? This government of the Republic of Serbia does not function by the principle of unity of government, but by principle, the division of power, and you all know it well. So if a minister doesn't like something, he won't respect the decisions and the government, he won't respect the laws, because he says, "I'm sorry, please, you're not in charge of this, I'm in charge, leave my job, I'll do it, I'll do it," you leave the possibility of abuse. I don't know why you insist so much on the minister and keep saying it in the law, so the ministry is an organ, the minister is an individual, a civil servant. But that is not surprising when the creator of one of these laws, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who blackmailed the previous government, also blackmails this government. If we look at all the laws that were passed at the time, you will see that Minister Dinkic was set above the law at that time, he was appointed a monarch. The parliamentary majority then gave the minister the right to put, in certain moments as an individual, off-limits to certain provisions of the law extremely important for the functioning and application of the law itself. Who has the right to do so, does such a thing have the right of the President of the Republic? There isn't. It can only be done in monarchies, but not those that are parliamentary, but only in dictatorial. So, at the very least, I need to follow some amendments and additions to the law, and I believe that what you missed to fulfill the wishes of large tobacco processors and traders will be quick to make a proposal for new amendments and additions to the tobacco law. At least when it comes to the adoption of forms, it should be the Minister of Trade, or the Ministry of Trade, who will prescribe forms, which his market inspectors will carry out, not that the finance minister does. It's about time that once with that practice of parallel state authorities, it's over. If you have formed a tobacco management, there is no need for reports to be submitted, that processors, sellers of large and small reports submit to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the tobacco administration. The tobacco administration, if it is already formed, should do its job in accordance with the powers that the law has given them, and some reports they receive forward to the ministries that are asking them to do so. You're trying to convince me that the Department of Agriculture will keep records more precisely than the tobacco department itself. It's hard, because there are enough other problems we're going to talk about when some other amendments are involved, there are enough other problems. And he can, for his planning, report, always request a report from the administration to get it, and therefore make some plans for the tobacco plant and the traffic of tobacco processing. But when it is such a situation, why is it that the Minister of Agriculture does not appear here, because he does not have to be one authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the Minister of Trade; the finance minister is not needed here. Finance is about tax policy. For tax policy, there are tax authorities and tax police, and for trade and traffic, we have other ministries, other bodies that need to be looked after, not the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6220	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6221	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, waiting for the ministers of agriculture, I expected him not to appear by chance on the Lipinare, he probably solved the problem too, so here he appeared in the Assembly. The Serbian Radical Party proposed after Article 3rd new Article 3a, which reads: "Yes in Article 9. Law item 1 after the word "communication" is added to the word "a farmer". Explanation. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that the state must stimulate agricultural production directly by the agricultural producer, not make them work for others. Ladies and gentlemen, when we were discussing the law in general, I was saying how much careless or how little this law covered an individual producer, let's say a peasant, a raw tobacco. This is a very significant production, because this raw tobacco production will also depend on industrial production. However, I must honestly say, here in this law nowhere does this production or agricultural producer appear, only in this amendment appears the word "communication" and nowhere else. It means that the Ministry of Agriculture, related to this type of production and aid to the peasant, did not pay attention here or give any stimulation. Last year there was this stimulation about 65,000 per hectare, and this year there is no stimulation, and we already know that it has begun much, and I think even over 80% of the harvests of raw tobacco are finished, even though we know that this year, due to the elemental accident drought, the decline of tobacco even by half. Because one plant has about 30 leaves, while this year's stork or this year's raised plant, which did not have adequate cove conditions, has about 15 leaves. Which means that by a hectare, the production of tobacco in good conditions, when rainy years and all agrotechnical measures are applied, is moving about 2.5 tonnes per hectare, and now I don't believe the same thing, as agricultural producers, that it's going to be up to a ton and a half, even half of regular production. As you can see, the state has not helped agricultural producers, which finance themselves, as I say in harvesting, in drying that tobacco, and you know, and drying it either by electricity or using wood in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, all this time, and even in this election campaign, we saw the visit of certain municipalities of Mr. Minister when he declares and when he says, here's what we in DOS promised we were actually doing. It is 100 euros per sown area or harvest area, or 90 euros per drowned throat. But the minister didn't say, that's what I said last time, because, you know, that's what I do, and yet I speak from my soul and soul of those agricultural producers. You know I asked the MP's question to the Ministry and I got the answer that the price of wheat, just when it was harvested, was ranging from 10 to 14 dinars. I asked why it wasn't determined, because there was no price at the time, they told me it was a market economy, the price dictated by millers. But what happens now? It happens that on the world market, the price of wheat is higher, i.e. normal and the Ministry of Agriculture should have seen it before, to see that this Serbia has been hit by a natural disaster and that there has been a reduction in gender on all planted areas, if chronologically I say from corn, soybeans, soy tails, so I'm not counting further, so it's not a decrease in gender by 10-20, but even 50%, depending on the region where some parts were getting a little rain. The minister often visited Shabac, where he was chairman of the management board of Galeb, and the company was first privatised and kidnapped by workers, and I am surprised when it was occupied by the board of directors, he had to be guarded by the police, and therefore he knew very well the opportunities in the Šaba municipality or in the Mačvan County. But in his biography, which was ahead of us, he didn't write it. He was probably ashamed, because still as a doctor of science he inherited a radio and TV mechanic Radoslav Veselinovic, who owns the company, inherited him at the post of President of the Chamber of Commerce. And you know how and what's going on in the Chamber of Commerce, what's corruption, how much is fighting for those housing loans. Therefore, I think that Mr. Minister has contributed with his reputation and his conduct. I'll move on with what's going on with agriculture. As for 90 euros per bottled throat, it's another DOS fraud or the Democratic Party, however you like, because it's the skeleton of this ruling oligarchy, so it promised 90 euros, but that promise with its own money those agricultural producers actually pay the 90 euros. How? Well, instead of the price that was 1.75 euros or 1.80 per soaked throat, living meat, Mr or Government and slaughterhouses are now buying it at 1.35 euros. Now take and calculate this relationship that is actually present now, means that agricultural producers are practically their own money, what the Democratic Party is offering them, it's actually their money that they had when the 1.75 euros was that price of a drowned June. What I must say further is, as you can see, there were very little subsidies in agriculture, related to spring seed, that I'm not counting now, and now we're on the verge of the autumn wheat seed, where the government in that field has done nothing. Even through our locals, let's call them, institutions, agriculture directorates, who do some kind of marginal work, write some elaborates, how much of what is sown and how harvested, and not what are, in fact, the measures that they would help agricultural producers. You know that there were no stimulative means in the spring seed, any regression related to any instructions, whether or not mineral fertilisers, whether or not for seeds, whether or not chemical agents used for plant protection. That's not what happened. If we look, especially in this year, but also in the period of these seven years, their ambition was to destroy agriculture and to import agricultural products from the EU. Let's just look at the mineral fertiliser production factories, because we had five large mineral fertiliser producers in the premises of the former Yugoslavia and in Serbia. Today we only have one factory and it's the Dust. It works because it has to use byproduct from Bora, sulfuric acid, and otherwise it probably wouldn't exist either. Azotara Pančevo was sold and held a monopoly over the production of ammonia, a component needed in the production of mineral fertilisers. What's going on? It was bought by tycoons that are not engaged in the business, which agricultural production in Serbia is not interested in, so the lack of ammonia, which is needed in the production of mineral fertilisers, led to their closure. When we look at it, we see that the goal of this government was, in fact, only to destroy agricultural production and that agricultural products can be imported from the EU or from NATO countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time for the Ministry of Agriculture to turn to the village, turn to the most valuable population, people who, by their work, want to preserve their hearth, to preserve agricultural production, because these are small factories, and you told them after Doss's arrival to power, that they would be able to open their doors without an intermediate lobby to export their goods. But that didn't happen. You've created a five-octobaric revolution, a five-octobaric coup, or individuals have become so rich over that labor hero, in his bloody sweat, because at this temperature of 40 degrees he couldn't carry on his back air conditioning and it wasn't then that legal norm that the government brought in to stay at the outside temperature for certain hours. No, they are exposed to all the times; they are washed by the rain, and are dried by the sun; and they expected much from you, that you will help them, but they did not know when they turned to you in a five-octobaric coup, while they thought that they were well-being. But they saw what they had come to see. Their hearths leave children because they have no perspective. What you need to know is that there are over 10,000 single boys in Machovan County. It's a prerequisite tomorrow that will be 10,000 closed households. And if we don't talk about nursing homes, which you've cheated on and given them 40 grand each, that's helping you before the Dossian government elections. What did you do after that? Very quickly you took those 40,000 because they were supposed to pay for health and pension insurance, which means they ended up without it. Understand that Serbia will not be able to go this way that you have traveled, and I hope that a very soon Serbian peasant will understand who wants him well. The Serbian peasant will understand who he should vote to tomorrow, which is the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6222	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6223	Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to point out the activities in terms of decision-making, subsidies, premiums and all the incentives within the Ministry of Agriculture for one single reason only. More recently, from the moment I became an MP to some activity related to how people in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, Pester, Sandzak use the resources that the state uses through various ministries, through various funds to make use of them. I was simply surprised at the possibilities, and for those people who literally don't have time to read, not to inform themselves, nor have the opportunity to get at the right moment of information what they can use, this time I want to highlight the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, and not for the reasons that it's the minister of DS, but because all these subsidies and premiums have affected people to feel that there's a chance that there's a chance of personal engagement, that they can make the most of their potentials and improve what they do and make their lives easier. For this reason, I wanted to point out that surely at least hundreds of agricultural producers from Sjenica, Novi Pazar and Tutin used subsidies and incentives. I know they've now applied for the subsidies that were missing in this to be used for 2008. For that reason, I would like people to know from our neighborhood that they have a chance and that they have opportunities for all these funds that are available from the Ministry of Agriculture. I also know these days from the Ministry of Culture that the state of Serbia allows people, whether they are Bosniaks or Serbs in the area, that it is very important that these places are declared marginal and that they have an exceptional opportunity to use, in particular, as rural and undeveloped areas. For that reason, all those who have made those people living downstairs, where more than 60 percent of people live on agriculture, on their farms, have a chance and can live much better and easier. So, regardless of who you said, who's the minister in which the ministry, it's important that they have a chance and that they have people to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6224	National MP Dragan Todorovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker wanted to point out in some way the role of the DS minister in the fact that I don't think it's right, here's an argument, that a large number of peasants or people dealing with agricultural production in one part of Serbia are allowed to do so. I don't think it should depend on the minister at all, and it doesn't depend on the minister. The government is operating on the basis of some of its programs. This should be the government's strategic goal, to develop this country, society, to make it possible for every citizen, regardless of what he's dealing with, given the most impoverished way, the best way for him, to take advantage of all the advantages he has. Is the speaker the best place you'll invite people to read what is brought to the government or in the Serbian Parliament I don't know. I know for a fact that all our citizens know what's best for them and as soon as they hear from someone, they get well informed, and they try to take advantage of all the opportunities they have, and there's nothing controversial about it. What's the issue here? The problem is that politics is being abused in this kind of help. We had in the previous government a minister from another party, who used it, that is, the party abused the fact that the minister was from their ranks, so through the registration of rural households conditioned membership in the party. That's what the problem is and it should be completely eliminated. For this government and for this assembly, it is entirely irrelevant that our citizens of religion, nationality, education, everything that this country has at its disposal under the same conditions should be available. The problem is that this is being misused, and I don't think it's right that the Serbian Parliament's pay phone is being misused, because it turns out that the DS minister wasn't doing well, and now everything's great. Or maybe it's, in a way, maybe even worse, some sales contract related to presidential contracts, maybe it's some kind of rematch for voting in the presidential election, but it's not right at all. That means, if you vote for me, we'll look to channel some funds into that part of the country, and if you don't vote, there's nothing. Which is absolutely true. We have, say, the ministry, before it was for capital investments, which exactly paved the street or the road to the village where they had a certain number of votes, where they didn't, there's nothing for them. That's the problem. I think it would be correct for all of us in the Assembly to make an effort to eliminate it, because today they are in a position, tomorrow they will be in opposition and therefore should not depend on the quality of life of our citizens, but in principle on the fact that what rights they get can be used without political conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6226	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Munir, I assume it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6227	It's not intention, a man can defend himself and everyone knows who he is. This is just a confirmation of what you said. I want to tell you that for the last two months, I have gone down and the rainy end, and Požega, and Lukara, and the cave end, regardless of whether a Serb or Bosniak is in the area, in order to promote what was offered by one or another ministry. I just wanted to carry, as much as I wanted someone to be read, to get information, the most important thing is how much a man reacts and collects and takes what is provided to him, and my role in that direction is what you pointed out. Regardless of whether it belongs to one or the other party, I've been going around with Milan, without a problem, that neighborhood, where it's supposed to point out the importance, something that needs to make it easier for that man. In this area, everything that comes from the Ministry of Agriculture is far more important to our citizens than to someone else, because more these people feel the benefits than that, and that's the intention. The point is to point out the importance of what you said, and that is to highlight the importance of this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6228	Thank you, Mr. Munir. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the incentives that the state has to take, given that it's a production that requires and requires a lot of resources, which is working-intense, because it requires a lot of labour engagements, and that state has to give incentives. We in the agrarian budget for this year have allocated very little money. Unfortunately, we have nothing for the tobacco industry, which is just the result of all the activities the state has taken since 2003 by selling the tobacco industry and the entire tobacco industry, a very profitable industry, has given international companies that are abuses such as abuses. I'll just say experiences from the EU. Italy singles out 3,000 euros per hectare, Spain 5,000 euros, we through the agrarian budget only 100 euros, and if we want to level our producers, then this difference cannot exist. Therefore, the ministry is tasked with providing funds, and we cannot provide for the next reason. We have also not leveled with the EU through the excise system. Why? Because by selling the tobacco industry, we put buyers in a monopoly position and they dictated our excise conditions. The state achieved over 30 billion euros last year, we are planning 37 this year. What are the excise duties in the EU and what are they like in our country? From 2005 to 31.12. In 2006, we paid 10 dinars for cigarettes from imports, and domestic production was one dinar. At the same time, excise duty was paid in the EU up to 57 per cent by 2003, and 39 per cent plus 34 euros per thousand cigarettes have been paid since 2004. So he comes to us for a hell of 55 dinars. We pay one dollar for our local cigarettes. This year it will be in 2007 to pay two dinars. Domestic producers, and 10 dinars. You see what the difference is, five times more. So we put a few dozen billion more into the budget through the excise system. We could've singled out a lot more in the agrarian budget and helped producers who deal with tobacco production, but that didn't allow us monopolies, or they didn't let you, because you sold it, closed the market, gave the monopolies the opportunity to do what they wanted. Multiple damage. Instead of helping manufacturers, we are now limiting through this tobacco law and reducing the ransom through the possibility of ransom, and again we are going and raising monopolies to those we have done multiple services to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6230	Thank you, Mr. Buhi. The People's MP Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Spaho according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6231	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting under Article 226 and asking for an explanation and please reply from Mr. Minister: have the funds in the budget been provided when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture for 100 euros per hectare? Did any of those promised to get 100 euros per hectare get 100 euros, and if not, when will they get it? I know you didn't promise, but the representatives of your party, or the DS, promised citizens during the election campaign, especially those who deal with agriculture, that they would get, regardless of what we thought was demagogy. We know that a large number of farmers have very few hectares and that the 100, 200, 300 euros would not mean much, but I think it would be good for you to answer whether this promise from the election campaign will be fulfilled and when it will be fulfilled. Also, I expect the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Oliver Dulic, to have fulfilled his promise when he said he would appoint missing members for the Lustration Commission, which he has promised several times both publicly and through the media. We didn't expect, simply, from the DS ministers not to keep their promises, from some others we did, from you we didn't, and therefore I ask you to tell me when you'd keep that promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6232	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Mr. Secretary answered for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6233	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to thank all those who, by reading and analysing the proposed Amendments and Supplements Act proposal, have tried and tried to improve this document through this debate. More questions were related here to the farm portfolio, and here I will only give three brief answers, and also take the opportunity to invite interested MPs to the session of the Assembly Committee, which will be held on Tuesday, the first, at 14 o'clock, so that whoever has a desire to hear and what we do, and what we do, and to ask the question and that some proposal, welcome. About 100 euros per hectare on the last issue of the MP. It's a promise to be fulfilled and this is the first year, the first budget from which direct payments to agricultural producers go. So far, about a billion and 800 million dinars have been paid on that basis. All resources are secured. I agree and thank all the MPs who say the agrarian budget is small and insufficient. That's true. It should be much bigger and much more money must be allocated to agriculture, as it is one of Serbia's rare development opportunities. But, regarding this promise, the money is secured, it will be paid in spite of these billions and 800 million dinars, which have already left the vault, for a payment of no more than two to three weeks, still waiting for about a billion and 700 million dinars. Since the deadline for submitting the application on December 1st of this year, I am sure that all those who registered the land, reported areas under cultures, submitted a very simple request to the ministry, will ensure their right to receive and receive those funds. I agree they're not big, but this is a start. I'll give you another comparison. In Austria this year, about 330 euros per hectare, in Slovenia about 250 euros. We started with 100 euros and no matter how rich and better we produce and develop economically, I'm sure this amount will grow. So there's money and they'll all get it. About the drought, a very short comment. True, this year's drought has indeed taken over all the conditions of the elemental disaster. We are very careful to analyse and prepare suggestions on how to mitigate the effects of drought. We are still harvesting the autumn war cultures, waiting for final results and sunflowers, and corn and some other cultures. Around, the thinking goes from reducing certain contributions to the water industry to postponing commitments on the basis of agricultural credits made for a while, to tax exemptions on cadastrian income. We will try to make sure that over the next two to three weeks, when the results of this year's agricultural production will be known, that we propose a few more creative measures to facilitate the position of farmers. Once again to all of you who, as distinguished members of this house, have the right to vote, I am grateful that you are fighting for a larger agricultural budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6234	Here you go. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have heard from the minister that, on the basis of the agrarian budget, so far, a billion and 700 have been allocated. (Freedan Milosavljevic, from the place: Only 100 euros per hectare). Look. So the agrarian budget is at 23 billion. A billion and 700, a billion and 800, that's seven and something or eight percent. It's September 18th. Agricultural production starts not on January 1st, but begins far before that. So agricultural producers, especially peasants, must accumulate funds far earlier this year for that year. So, you didn't do yourself the courtesy of the budget. The ministry must begin to share the funds from January 1st. It's September 18th, you've only divided seven percent. How do you stimulate? People give up, and then you give up the 100. Not 100%. The village and agriculture, as well as agricultural production, deserves far more. According to the national programme of economic development, you gave priority, the government adopted it, and I hope that the Assembly will also take its stand and make adequate solutions. You've given priority to agricultural production, but you're clearly talking through these measures of yours about the meaning of this production, about the sense of stimulation and the totality of that production. There is no such production unless the state takes all the action to fund it as it can. There's money in the budget for it, regardless of the agrarian budget. You had to share it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6236	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6237	Thank you. Only inaccuracy is related to one segment of the agrarian budget, 100 euros per hectare, so far worth a billion 800 million dinars. The total agrarian budget is spent and around 60 per cent so far, and this regulation was adopted sometime in July, payments first started on August 20th and 100 euros per hectare paid from August 22nd to yesterday, 800 million dinars. It is not a whole agrarian budget, but only a part, which refers to 100 euros per hectare, i.e. a regulation to regress the inputs into wartime production, for fertilizer, fuel and seed material.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6238	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta called. It's good to talk a little bit about agriculture, and it's good, I thank the Minister for his participation in the debate, because that is our greatest chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6239	I don't know why you thank the Minister for taking part in the debate. It's his job. However, his immeasurable contribution to this constructive debate stems from his early youth. It is obvious that man has knowledge and experience from agriculture, back in the days he acquired in Svilinc, when he bought eggs and sold them at the Belgrade market. That activity certainly contributed to DS's success, and I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate DS on that great success in Svilinco. They should certainly be especially grateful to Mr Milosavljevic, though also to JUL's bodyguard Sutanovac, but here today is Mr Milosavljevic, and I ask that you continue this debate as much as possible with your experiences from the time you were reselling eggs from Svilinc in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6240	Thank you, Veronica. National MP Milorad Krstin submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6241	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as the chairman said, it's nice to talk about agriculture, but it's interesting that here, for the third year in a row, we always have amendments and additions to the tobacco law. It is already a sign that something new is being inserted by the minister who comes or orders him. But I don't notice that he puts or makes some sauce, tobacco manufacturer and tobacco processors, to once make a nivelation, who's there to get more, whether this tas producer should be above the processor, because it's logical that he who invests his work and effort should be worth it. However, with us, thanks to some wicked acts again, it comes to the fact that the manufacturer is always the one who wins the least, and the one who has least invested is the one who gets the most. That is why I have also submitted an amendment in front of the SRS parliamentary group, which is - after Article 3a added a new Article 3a, which reads: "Article 9 of the law after Article 1 adds a new position 2 which reads - The farmer does not have to meet the requirements of Article 1, point 1. Four and five." Minister, I'm just gonna remind you what and why I'm taking it. Namely, in Article 9(1) point - it is registered in the register of economic operators for the operation of tobacco production, in order to have at least five hectares of farmland owned, or in cooperation with the physical face of tobacco producers. I don't know why you found those five acres. I don't know what led you to be five acres. Why? Because they have to be tenants who have over five acres or not to say they have over 5,000 acres. Thirdly, what is most important, Ministers, is that it has technical opportunities for agricultural processing and preparation of land for sowing, harvesting, drying, sorting, packaging and other necessary operations to prepare tobacco for processing. It is one agricultural culture or gentle plant that normally, like all others, goes from seed, which is placed in warm leu, though, now they bring them into containers, to a certain height when they grow up, from warm leus go to the field and then an individual agricultural producer, when the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't think so much about them, simply plays the pigeoneer and looks into the sky waiting for it to rain. Tobacco is a plant that can't, certainly not like the others, but especially tobacco, can't bring it in unless it's under irrigation systems. It is particularly wrong for the previous Ministry of Agriculture, headed by Ivana Dulic-Markovic. This is the sixth time I've asked a parliamentary question. In fact, he was in the past meeting from the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. from the Agricultural Development Fund to irrigation systems allocated 180 million dinars. From that, three subjects were given, as you stated, this is what I'm saying as a member of the Committee in the previous agricultural council, at 60 million. And you see, if that's for five years, with one year of grace, that one has to pay back 15 million every year. We've asked on the Committee dozens of times to deliver names and names or names of that entity or those three entities that got it. However, you see, because of this, a number of tobacco producers are not able to increase their yield in such a dry year, because it depends on the rain, as farmers say, on Spasovdan. I will point out that there are a lot of tobacco producers in its Central Banat County and in the Northobanat County. We had a factory, and now we have a tobacco factory in Zrenjanin, which was bought by the Vranje tobacco industry, and they, like everyone else, privatized and bought the British American Tabaco. However, Mr. Minister, there is something that needs to be made more clear to you. Now production from the municipality of Zrenjanin in Čoka is contracted, and that doesn't matter, in Sainta, it doesn't matter, but it's important that last year, in 2006, they were paid the first class of tobacco at 1.35 euros, while private factory purchases from Indija Bonus paid for two euro first class last year in 2006. You in this law have so much of these legal provisions for punishment, fines, etc., and they continue to walk in the field. Now, the price for the contract with these same manufacturers is 1.80 euros. And they are already in the field, again from India, buyers -- yes, Jesic -- and they pay 2.20 euros. You, Mr. Minister, have the legal opportunities to prevent it, or simply be in the ranks and give the same price or legal price below which the first class of tobacco cannot go, be as much as Jesic, the Bonus factory, with its purchases on the ground, 2.20 euros. You should know that the European price is now around 2.50 euros. What is it, Mr. Minister, with premiums? The agricultural producer that planted four hectares has so far spent his money of 250,000 dinars, which means three thousand euros, and so much is left of that total area at the price it received last year, which is 1.35 euros. So what he's earned now is just to invest in this year, so what he gets in 2007, if at all, will be invested in 2008. Is that what you want to improve these changes and additions to the tobacco law? You can, and especially fellow Bhuha, by paying taxes you have enough money, the Serbian government has allocated enough money in the agriculture ministry's budget to pay these people honestly. Unfortunately, we all have to realize that tobacco is something that kills, but people live on it. However, the tobacco mafia has tightened and spread its arms more than lung cancer in this Serbia, especially by causing damage to very individual agricultural producers who are nothing from you, the ministry is getting big, nor will they get. I ask a parliamentary question, Mr. Minister: will there be a premium for individual agricultural producers producing tobacco? And let's get something straight, because I have time, and I have this informant of yours in front of me, about 100 euros or 8,000 per hectare. It's you, it's got pictures, and it's nice, in August it's already come out. Minister, you've allowed individual farmers here who have up to 11 hectares of no need to file any fiscal accounts, as regards diesel fuel, mineral fertilizer or declared seed. Now let's talk about those over 11 acres. Do you think that one who has over 11 acres is so rich that every year he can immediately pay for the seeds of wheat, corn, fertilizer, whether it was 3.15% of the hour, or 16.24%, whether it was for eating cannes or urea? Or those who are more than 15 hectares do not identify with those up to 11 acres. And worst of all, you should know as a minister that somewhere around 40% of individual agricultural producers in the natural exchange take from certain representatives of some oil factories, oil factories, make sunflower contracts, whether they are 5 hectares or 50 hectares, they take from those same ones because they also give corn seeds, and wheat seeds, mixed fertilizer 8, 16, 24, three 15 acres, cannes, ureum. With them going back through that, as I said, natural production, they're going to go back through the wheat, through corn, through the sunflower, but they can't get to what you're looking for, they don't have an account, they don't have a fiscal bill, because they made a natural exchange deal, and these people have delivered you a seed plan. The one who registered the agricultural land that the previous ministry proposed, you now don't believe these people that they really sent what they said, but you're asking them for an account. I am responsible for telling you that 40% of individual agricultural producers in Serbia are making contracts, as I said, with certain factories, processing, so they supply for seeds, fertilisers, for protection, I apologize, I forgot to say, and normally they can't get an account at that time. They won't enter these, so to speak, privileged, who have an account and who can bring in a fiscal account and can participate in this. There's one more thing I have to show you, look at the fiscal accounts, this is a list that's nice to see, the fiscal account of the elevator since 19.10.2006. Then this is the second fiscal account standing in the drawer, not standing in the sun, and look, this one's faded, it's all certified. This pale, and also certified by the fertilizer, that's completely faded. One's 8, 16, 24, and the other one's a canoe. It's from the fiscal register, and look at the certified ones, and this would probably be now if we gave it to the SUP, if they made sure they were figures here, because I showed you something well visible, poorly visible, and invisible. Invisible because the introduction of these fiscal registers puts some huge money in his pocket, and now we or those poor agricultural producers, who hold each account well, not to say they keep it in notebooks, now that he has to take it and to bear it, to get something from this country, which someone promised in the election campaign, and referring to Minister Milosavljevic, DS, on yellow, has now yellowed the paper. It's all yellow, there's nothing left, there's no bill, there's no money. So, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6242	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6243	I forgot the paperwork, but I'll get back to you and I'll get it. In this law, there's one big feller and a big flaw, yes, Mr. Batic, there's a big shortage and there's no need to be surprised. I was present when this law was passed. There is no legal system in this law and that is clear to you. You don't know what's first degree, what's second degree, so it's strange to you, but I'm explaining to you that you don't know, not because it's your place of former, but you don't know. What's this about? There is no system of legal protection, nor of those who produce, nor of those who process, nor of those who make cigarettes. I may have used a bad term, but you know what I mean. We have not received an answer in seven days to see the fundamental difference between the term fermentation and the processing. That's not what Cvetkovic could explain last time and I don't know if we'll ever get that answer, but I would really care about what it is. How did this government deal with some problems in continuity? First and foremost, agricultural land is a state resource and it has special treatment. The production of tobacco and the transport of cigarettes is a state monopoly and should be a state monopoly, because the state thus provides large funds. There are more ways to solve this, in Serbia the worst way. As far as production is concerned, we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and this management of the tobacco agency. As far as traffic is concerned, we have the administration and the ministry again, and now that's the other thing, it's the Ministry of Finance. There's still a whole government in one distance. That's the wrong answer. Why? Because when there's a large number of organs that are responsible for something, then there's something hiding. A large number of those who participate in something, and that's the same as Churchill's, is that what we want not to solve, we will. Let's make a commission. And I'm treating this like a commission and it's never gonna get rid of it. Why? Mr. Buha has provided very precise data, as many of the grounds are lost by this kind of state monopoly, which is reportedly decentralised, etc., and in fact our market, both as far as production and this traffic are concerned, was given into the hands of someone who had to be given. Now they're complaining, and they're gonna catch a piece of that cake. One determines the production balance, and the other makes some balances, looks at how much traffic, how much imports should be, and what should be imported. Everything by system that cigarette manufacturers in this country are protected. The first excise law, where some five-year-olds were given to relax, was given because they were quite involved in the coup. Just to remind you, the biggest expert in the government, Zoran Djindjic, was Zarko Korac. So remember that, we build a factory in Kragujevac; yes, he was the greatest Zarko Koraq, and he spoke in public. There was Cane in the back, we all know that, and it's already known. We now have a beautiful song here and it is said first, the regulations of the World Trade Organisation, as a free market; how there can be a free market in that area representing the state monopoly. How? This country doesn't have any agricultural policy, it first insulted all the people who process the country. They registered agricultural households. He won't be a registered peasant. You promised those who were registered, they'll get it. All right, he'll get some. Just to draw your attention, all those registered were G17s. Do whatever you want, you're that coalition, whatever you want, but there's no agricultural policy here. Someone in this government is talking to us about the free market in agriculture. Where is it? Probably Bangladesh, Biafra. Are these measures run by the government in the EU? The biggest fight in the EU is who will come up with the common agricultural budget and the right quotas, make some systems, some levels, first, second, third category, the state stands as a guarantee. The European Union became the power of the moment when it stabilised its agricultural production, and these liberalists tell us about some free economy, free trade, all freely, and there are no of our producers. You go to Europe, you can go to Europe, but don't drag anyone else who won't. You go ahead, you have visas, you have everything. A few days ago, I showed Minister Cvetkovic here, he wanted to faint, when a video solution to some recognized tobacco variety was, etc. I told you it caused permanent damage, for seven years this land can no longer be used. Now understand what tobacco production, tobacco processing and cigarette production are all about. The government of the Republic of Serbia destroys Serbian households, destroys tobacco production, destroys a small peasant who manufactures tobacco. It will destroy even those who have traditionally grown tobacco for 50-100 years. You don't know, there used to be, if the daughter's daughter is to get married, the poor and the poor in Serbia, there's to be organized some parcel, tobacco is produced, sold to the monopoly, funds to get married, because tobacco production was a tough job. Just to remind you, it used to be hard to get raw tobacco down so it could be put on drying, but these new ones don't know it, they don't care. They're interested in what the standard is. Where? In Tungusia. What a profit it will be. For who? For the ruling furniture, for some individuals. He was in the chamber, everyone told him -- don't get caught up in being a minister of agriculture, there'll be a big drought. He says I have to. What is this greater force beyond that? What was Councillor Buliji? What's the reason he has to? We all know that the Minister of Agriculture will be recorded in black letters in 2007. For what? And for the drought, and for other things. But the answer is - I have to. That it might not be because of Vlahovic, because of Djelic, because of Pitic, that I do not order further. Your bills. That's what our governments have been like since 2001. Your account in the first place. In some subsequent provisions, someone else has submitted amendments, you will hear, will explain why he has submitted amendments, you systematically reduce our production by excluding responsibility and states, and tobacco processors, and the one who needs to make cigarettes. Why? You let everything go free. Why? Because those who own the cigarette factory have been pushing you for a long time because they're asking to import tobacco from abroad that's cheaper. When they spin it here, when it leaves without excise stamps, half of Europe will clap. They are not fighting for this production in regulated countries, but on the edges and periphery of the protected part of the EU. They count that there's an airless space where everything is possible, and what's desirable is laundry. Everything in our house can be washed. Foreign banks come in, launder mob money. Some foreign producers came in, the question is whether they're foreign, they're being washed, there's being legalized capital, there's a lot of things going on. Last time I told you, in the tobacco industry in Nis, for probably a third of the officials who work in the administration, the official language is English, not Serbian. They don't care, they don't care. They say -- that man paid, there's something left for Nis, we took something, and Zivkovic, everyone's happy, the best privatisation in that year. What are the consequences, what do the producers say? I'm guessing you're the state's monopoly on cigarette sales and tobacco production. Why in tobacco production? To ensure well-being, to guarantee stability to the tobacco manufacturer. The one who makes cigarettes, you keep him under control, so he doesn't smuggle. You know, you've read books, I guess you've read books, what's written about tobacco, what's written about tobacco smuggling, where roads went, where donkey trails went, etc. See how it's regulated in other countries That was two days before you were born. [[overlapping from the O.R.: When was that?]] It's famous. It's not a long history of having to read some old books. No, books are editions, you're contemporary. It's destroying itself. Why is it destroying? Because of someone's interest. It's no longer an interest in hanging out with someone. Why? What they're pushing us in the regulations isn't in Europe. Evidence that there is no - the EU has jointly filed a lawsuit, on behalf of 10 countries, against the world's largest cigarette manufacturers and has a claim of at least 10 billion euros on behalf of illegal trade organised by these companies through its exhibits and via the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Since the '90s and some years, there have been five smuggling channels, proven to be smuggling channels. If you don't believe me, ask that wolf who hired him, Mladjan Dinkic. It's all written. Read the book Cane Frog, the King of the Duvan Mafia. It's all described, with official documents. Milo Djukanovic is not in jail because his sister, for half a year, when the topic is activated, as a lawyer, takes a million euros to the prosecutor, he calms down and for the next six months is peaceful. It keeps turning. The EU will not forgive anyone for its 10 billion euros. With the cigarette manufacturers, these of us, with that name, the question is who owns it, it's a wide story, they're all registered in New York, they have businesses in Geneva, they're looking for these tax credits where they could force their business, etc. Why? Of course, to launder money, to make money. They're troubled by the Serbian peasant and his tobacco being produced here. The production in Serbia must be shut down, but every farmer must prove that there is no economic interest in producing tobacco. If he does not accept it voluntarily, then Ivana Dulic will plant that seed for him and will not give him anything for the next seven years. I guess after this, you can see what's changing the tobacco bill. I'm not saying that the basic text is good, far from being good. There were restrictions -- 40%, 20%, some amount that must necessarily be domestic production, etc. It's coming off. It says -- it's the CEFTE regulations, they're international standards. What international standards? What international standards apply in the EU? You go to France and talk to their co-operation committee with the EU. You know what they're going to tell you -- we've created an additional committee that is reviewing the rules adopted at EU level, both in parliament, and in this ministerial council of theirs. What suits us, what doesn't suit us, we don't apply. When you're going to say - what's right for Serbia we're applying, what doesn't correspond to Serbia, we don't care. We act like French, we act like Germans. For five years, the Germans have not applied those Mastricht regulations on the budget deficit. That's where 3% is said, they're pounding 5%, no one can look at them, tell them anything. And with us, I don't want to tell you what they're talking about, ever since they let that blonde in there, so she's an expert on The Hague, and she's an expert on return, and tax rates, and customs rates, all experts. Where are these experts, what's better in Serbia than that amount of experts? Reduced production. Where? Everywhere and everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6244	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, go ahead. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't know what I provoked Mr. Krasic to mention me on several occasions. I've neither been involved in writing this nor the previous law in any way, nor I have anything to do with tobacco. But since Mr Krasic mentioned in a negative context the previous government, first of all the Government of Zoran Djindjic, whose member I was, has some indirect connection to the tobacco, I must say the following. Zoran Djindjic was someone who wanted to get in the way of illicit trafficking and tobacco smuggling. Mr Milosavljevic is a witness to this, although I am surprised, if you would be kind enough to listen, I will explain to you, although I am surprised that this part of Mr Milosavljevic's portfolio was not taken over by Mladjan Dinkic, because he is the minister of general practice, he has taken over parts of the five-six ministries, and it seems to me that he is very competent in this country when it comes to tobacco. What's this about? The most widespread brand of tobacco was Monte Carlo, in these areas, the manufacturer of Japan or Japan Tobacco. I mentioned this last time, but since Mr Krasic invited me to establish some material. So, they were the most disturbed by the burning of cigarettes, standing in the way of the black market for cigarettes in this country, headed by Zoran Djindjic. The main promoter of Japan or Japan Tobacco was a very discreet company of England, which was called FIA, it can be accepted that it was part of that mafia, so Lord Armstrong, Jessica Divassia, Vukasin Wolf Minić, etc. The problem is that the same firm served Mladjan Dinkic, as the then governor of NB one SRJ, to seek money in Cyprus. In fact, the common denominator of Japan Tabak and Mladjan Dinkic in the FIE engagement, and I have a lot of documents on this, is the discreditation of Zoran Djindjic. That was then headed towards Zagreb's National, according to Hrvoje Petrac, etc. The point of the whole story further is that FIA's Cypriot money has never been found, Vukasin Wolf Minić, testifying in the court procedure, admitted what the FIE role was, why Dinkic spent several hundred thousand dollars to hire FIU, who did nothing, because he should not have done anything, but to compromise Zoran Djindjic. But the story has continued, Japan Tabako still exists. His main promoter is in Limassol, Cyprus, named Isa Auda, the headquarters of the Four Seasons Hotel in Limassol, the same hotel that Serbs obviously like, where money should have been paid in the follow-up to the 'coffer' affair, it's the same place. Japan Tabako is interested in buying or building a factory here, so this same Isa Auda, who lives in Cyprus, began that famous project of building a tobacco factory in Chačka, remember that story. Well, the foundation, and there was some bishop to bless the tobacco factory in Chačka. What's going to happen, we'll hear more, that story isn't over. So, the story has a sequel because of the cost of the same Japan or Japan Tabaka Mladjan Dinkic, with a crowd of journalists, travels to Japan in September 2000. At the time of the IMF delegation, Mladjan Dinkic, and not someone else, opened a tobacco factory in Senta that he bought, which he privatised and became the owner of the same Japan Tabako. That's why I mentioned all of this, not to say that some controversial Jankovski character in Macedonia was in charge of distribution here, and his sub-distributor Ekrem Luka, and Ekrem Luka's chief financier, Ramush Haradinaj, etc. So the tobacco story has a lot of legs. Now there's something else, I'm done, I'm sorry. There are warrants issued for some tobacco smugglers, but some are not. Governmental favorites, both sponsors and tycoons, have been excluded from the persecution of tobacco trafficking, such as Miskovic. I'm afraid, as far as I'm aware, some arrest warrants have been rejected, some serious countries will react to that. Remember it started with the tobacco story, and it ended with the story of the assassination or the murder of Zoran Djindjic, so Prosecutor Radovanovic arrested Radet Terzic, so Rade Terzic was released, and for the award, prosecutor Radovanovic became a state prosecutor. How and why? But he'll come under responsibility, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6246	Thank you. Comrade Zoran Krasic. Replic or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6247	I need to take a critical look at what Mr. Batic said, so it doesn't turn out now that he and I are some kind of coalition. Although, I must admit, there are some new details that will help me greatly in the dispute against Mladjan Dinkic in front of the court. But, Mr. Batic, if you're saddened by what to do, then we'll do it together. And you're sad already? Oh, so you opened the season. Now, there's new details. Please, I'm seriously interpreting this. There are completely new details, which change a little picture of what's been going on, but Mr. Batic, you have to agree with me that the bar is very small, and that there are a lot of crocodiles and now they have nothing to eat, so they start pulling each other. Yeah, you laugh, but you did. Mr. Minister, after this time of mine, I'm going to deliver this complete paperwork to the public. There's documentation that proves that systematically destroyed tobacco production is in agricultural producers, peasants, farmers, whatever you want, paora, gege, interpret whatever you want. It all started on the basis of an organized coalition of enemy forces against the people and the state. The coalition includes those who imported some seeds, wanted to register it, those who allegedly carried out the check and said they could, those who distributed to agricultural producers and those who had cheated on those agricultural producers for several years -- and that's not why this, and that's not why. Here's a full court case where it's been proved to be permanently lost production from some land, which is traditionally or in some order, I don't know these particulars, was intended for the production of tobacco. The damage has been done and you have here very rude letters from the Nish tobacco factory, where it says, "We're breaking contracts, we won't cooperate with you anymore." And here you have a picture of some Evgeny Sidoli. I just want to remind you that in the end, if you look at this picture, these are Serbian peasants. These are the people that are damaged. You're the Minister of Agriculture to these people, and you're nothing to this, he's a stranger. You should control him, if you break the law to arrest him and ban him from staying, not specifically this, but this type of people, stay in Serbia, because it is harmful to national, state and economic interests. That's what Serbia is authorized to do. He can forbid anyone from entering. So, he's in the coalition, I've listed who's spinning in that coalition, and these are our peasants. You're the minister because of these people. I'm here for these people. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Esad are here for these people. We accept this one here if we can skin it. You're laughing, but I use a very acceptable economic term. If we have any interest, go ahead, work, if we don't have any interest, take a shot and go somewhere else. We're not a team for that kind of transaction. I would ask you, you have complete documentation, you have an initial letter from a gentleman who tried very objectively to explain what it was, very briefly, and I ask you, since I have long since had no answer to what happened to that solution, which measures will be taken against those who were in the state service, who knew what it was and who deliberately signed one solution, which aimed at destroying our tobacco production.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6248	Thank you. National MP Slavko Jerkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 3. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Good luck, Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Slavko Jerkovic has submitted an amendment to the amendments and amendments to the tobacco law by saying that a new Article 3a is added after Article 3a, which reads: "Article 21. The law, paragraph 4, is amended and reads as follows: "The appeal of the resolutions of the Article 3 is submitted to the Ministry of Finance". Namely, a colleague, Slavko Jerkovic, wants only at the Ministry of Finance to ensure two-stageness and that is an observation of the technical character, and I would not be much concerned with the analysis of this amendment, that is, the essence of this amendment that he has submitted. However, counterpart Krasic opened a very interesting and interesting story, which is the aim of this law on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. Mrs. Vjerica, when she spoke of the government's first-ranking representative under this law as Mr. Cvetkovic, and now Slobodan Milosavljevic, to explain to you, remember that he spoke in his opening statement for three minutes and 16 seconds. After a brilliant presentation by the authorised representative of the SRS, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, a man froze, had nothing to say. I don't feel sorry for him, I didn't vote for him, I won't be sorry for you either, Mr. Milosavljevic, because you won't have answers to questions raised by the SRS. We have submitted 22 amendments to this law. We took an active part in the debate in principle under this law, and you tried to draw attention from what is the essence of 100 euros per hectare. Neither did Mr Todorovic comment on why it is now divided 100 euros per hectare. If by any chance you had made your political promise, pre-electionally, to a maximum of 500 euros, we would have nothing against us from the Serbian Radical Party, on the contrary, we would be glad to help our farmers, or to start developing agricultural production slowly, that is what we expected after 2000. However, you are in no condition to do so. We have observations about how and how it is shared, and therefore Mr. Poturak when he spoke, he talked about one piece, and we think it's mostly done in pre-election campaigns, so now I'm going to give you an analysis of how there was a premium payment for tobacco per year. And you'll see, when elections happen, then the premium of tobacco is paid per hectare, regardless of the quality of tobacco, regardless of the amount achieved, or the amount obtained per hectare, and at best it's 1.7 tonnes per hectare. So in 2000/ 2001, you gave a premium per kilo of tobacco. In 2002 there were 40,000 dinars per hectare. In 2006, because we had elections, 65,000 dinars per hectare of sown tobacco. This is going to be a problem with other agricultural cultures, and we can't tie it to one hectare. It is not interesting for small agricultural producers, they will get extremely small amounts, but large agricultural tycoons, which you have since 2000 and further helped rob Serbian citizens, they now have thousands of hectares, so when they receive the premium, it is a huge amount of money for them. Just up to 100 acres? Well, they're buying, I know the ministers for sure, not to buy everything in one name, but to buy in multiple names, and when they're slowly required to apply, they're nice here. So, in practice, things work differently. What did the state accomplish with such a negative relationship to tobacco producers? I accept the full words of Mr. Paja Momchilova, it seems to me that Rajko Baralić was also talking about tobacco damage. I'm someone who spent that product back in the month, but I agree that he has a negative impact on the environment, on the life of every consumer, but here we're talking about something else. Here we say, and you said in the light of the law, that about 120,000 people were engaged in this branch, of which 8,000 directly on tobacco production, on direct tobacco production, and we have the consequence that 9 of the largest tobacco producers, therefore, are those factories that organized the primary production and processing of tobacco, that have now been shut down, among them is the factory of tobacco from Bajina Basta ''Bajanovac', is that right, colleague Jovanovic, who has a long tradition, over 200 years of tradition in production and these fine, oriental tobacco. We're now in a situation where we've closed nine other factories next to Bainovac. We have nine tobacco producers left, with Sent, one of the largest producers. I can't think of one, about 35 tons of it. This way we're going to get into a situation to shut down not 8,000 jobs, but half of these 8,000 produce as much as it takes for 120,000 -- to deal with the production and processing of tobacco. Minister Cvetkovic, in explaining this law, just so you know how shyly he explained this, said, well, we are passing this law for reasons to facilitate retailing, because now not every year, but every other year, we will apply for a license, to facilitate it, we will cut costs and relieve the tobacco administration. I can tell you that the tobacco department is quite up-to-date, upon request, issuing those licences. She's not much of a pain in the ass. But what's going to happen here now? You didn't increase this without reason by four thousand, it's actually not four, but it's four and a half plus 150 dinars of administrative tax. You didn't do it for no reason to increase it to two years. So far, it's been every year, and now you say every two years. Because you expect, either in this 2007 or, of course, in 2008, there will be elections, and then you generously, all that comes together in two years, when the Serbian Radicals are probably in power, to share to the agricultural producers, whether tobacco, wheat or something else, we don't know, and then they will say, bravo, Minister Milosavljevic, you're a good man. That's why you did it, but they'll read you, they know what it's all about, and they certainly won't. Whether agricultural producers, presented in the Chamber of Commerce for Tobacco Production, were with one meeting in Novi Sad on September 11th, one of the two ministers who represented and defended this law in the Assembly, and one of the two ministers said, so what are you going to do, accept all the suggestions and suggestions of these producers when multinational companies are stronger than the state. Is this why Serbia organises elections, brings to power such people who will admit and say, although it is often stronger than the state. You know well that our producers are seeking a 90-euro premium, and in the European Union, the premium per kilogram is 2.90 euros. In fact, there is the goal of completely destroying tobacco production in Serbia. Of course, according to the other amendments, individually and in part, we will bring out what this government is up to and what is its goal, the high-accumulated production of tobacco is, that is, a large living workforce. You know well, they probably pointed out to you that for the same production, or on the same surface of the country to produce wheat, one worker should be hired, and 70 workers should be hired to produce tobacco. It is something that Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, must pay attention to and help them. You know, we don't say this with pride, but there's something we could do from the Republic of Croatia to see how it's done. They, probably because of those who bought a factory in Rovinj, and we know exactly who owns it, didn't say there was a mandatory purchase of tobacco, but they said that in a cigarette there is mandatory 60 percent of domestic tobacco, and if it has 60 percent of the domestic tobacco content, then it qualify as a domestic product and then it has all the benefits that tobacco producers mean a lot and such or similar relationship have premiums that have been defined five years in advance. And we don't know about 2007, when we already have the tobacco harvest, when it's slowly coming to an end, we don't know what the premium will be, although this association insists on being 90 cents and the total value of tobacco being 2.1 euro per kilogram in Serbia. We'll keep going, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6250	MP Veroljub Arsic. There are five minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment submitted by Mr Slavko Jerkovic, the MP on behalf of the SRS, asked that Article 21 change the position of 4 which would read: "The appeal for a solution set out in the 3rd article be submitted to the Ministry of Finance". The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that the amendment be rejected. Listen to the explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 214. The general administrative procedure law stipulates that an appeal against a first-degree settlement can only be made when the law provides for it." What are we discussing here, Mr. Minister? We're discussing the law, the hats, what? The MP submitted an amendment to the law, asked for an amendment to the law, was required to have a two-stage decision and, of course, not intended, because if it were provided for in this Article 21, then there would be no amendments. Is the law itself not intended? That's not true either. At least teach those interns to read the whole law, because in Article 17, when they are issued and the conditions are prescribed who can deal with tobacco trade, etc., paragraph 9, says, "According to the conclusion of Article 8 of this article, a complaint may be made to the Minister responsible for financial affairs within 15 days of the date of delivery of the conclusion". So you started with two degrees in decision-making. Why didn't you bring it to an end? And because you don't know how to write the law, just look at the previous points of 8 and 7. Look at that. The decision of the 8th member's position - Management is taking, in the opinion of the ministry responsible for agriculture and the ministry responsible for health affairs. Then you go back to the solution, to the conclusion, so one way or another is the conclusion, the other is the solution, so the conclusion is the solution. One simple question arises -- why is there no right in other members, when a person loses his license to trade tobacco, that it is not the Administration in the final administrative procedure to rule. You refer him to the Supreme Court. It's not an administrative procedure, it's a lawsuit. Let's take a look at these conditions - under which conditions someone can lose their license. At the request of the licence holder, it's not disputed, no one's going to file a complaint. ''If the holder of the permit ceases to meet the conditions prescribed by this law for its release. '"What are the conditions? In that same Article of the 17th that I quoted, let's say, when the processing and tobacco are transported by their own transport, that the vehicle must be marked for the transport of tobacco and that it meets the hygiene-sanitary conditions prescribed. Where are they prescribed? Who's going to control whether they're prescribed and how they're prescribed, and if there really are such conditions, or if they're going to be left to an inspector, or even to a traffic cop, because they've been building something smart lately, so they're looking for severances, so they're looking for a stamp, they're looking for this, they're looking for it. The goal of all these amendments isn't just to go out for a pay phone and talk. The amendments were made by the MPs of the SRS to try to correct the law, all that was unarranged. There's another member who's losing his license. "If the person responsible is the holder of the permit has been fined for the offence and if it is punishable for the criminal offence of illicit tobacco trafficking." There were a lot of articles in the press -- the tobacco mob was arrested, arrest warrants, etc. Here, for all the years you've been in power, the seventh is at the end, the start of the eighth, we haven't seen a single tobacco smuggler in front of the competent judicial authority. You were saying there was a criminal complaint against Stanko Subotic Canet frog. I am now asking a parliamentary question to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor - whether an international warrant has been called for these criminals or, by old custom, as soon as someone starts to stick a finger in his eyes comes to the gentleman's agreement - let's get out of the country, we'll raise a criminal report, but we won't pass it through Interpol, enjoy what you've acquired in an illegal way and what you've taken from the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6252	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question of Minister Milosavljevic: what is the legal mechanism for having the permit to process tobacco to protect its civil rights, when the government rejected the amendment of MP Slavko Jerkovic's amendment to Article 21(4). The tobacco law changes that attitude so the appeal can be declared to the Ministry of Finance? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the holder of the tobacco processing license has absolutely no legal mechanism to protect his rights. The tobacco law has deprived him of the right to make an appeal, and the government says in a statement as to why Slavko Jerkovic's amendment refuses -- can press charges for the initiating of the administrative dispute to the Supreme Court of Serbia. Mr. Minister, he can't. By law governing courts, or one of the amendments to that 2004 law, you set 1 January 2007 as the date on which the Administrative Court is due to start to act in the first instance to resolve administrative disputes. Now on 19 September 2007, the Administrative Court is gone, the Serbian Supreme Court has lost jurisdiction to settle administrative disputes. Now I ask you, in what way will the holder of the tobacco processing permit protect his rights when he has neither the right to appeal nor the authority to lead the administrative dispute. Next, you're completely misreading article 214. The General Administrative Procedure Act. It is not the law that states that the complaint can only be declared when the law is allowed, but only by law can the right to appeal be excluded, provided that the entity in the administrative procedure has the right to initiate the administrative dispute. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, of the provision of Article 36(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: ''' Everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision that decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest. "Now explain to me, as a People's Messenger, how the holder of the tobacco processing permit, when you take that license away from him, will protect his rights. You didn't allow him to complain, and there's no jurisdictional court before which he could lead the administrative dispute. This is a drastic violation of human rights and freedom, and that is why, Mr. Minister, and MPs of the ruling coalition, I call on you to accept Slavko Jerkovic's amendment, because it is the only way to protect human rights in the administrative process, when it comes to the permit to process tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6254	National MP Jadranko Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act, which reads - after Article 3a, a new Article 3a is added. Article 28. The tobacco law has a lack of participation in a public call, i.e. a tender in a section relating to the length of the public call. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just amazing that the public call isn't time-defined. This amendment does not affect your concept of amending and supplementing the tobacco law, but only to avoid abuse that is characteristic of your exercise of power. In addition to what is regulated by Article 28 of the three positions, I would like to add on behalf of the SRS another position, which in a precise and clear way regulates the length of calls in the public tender, which is between 30 and 60 days. This removes the possibility of abuse which, once again, is characteristic of your exercise of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6256	Anyone else want a word? Here you go. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6257	Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Vukovic explained very precisely why this improvement he offers, especially regarding terms, is much better than the proposed solution in the law, I would not go further. I called to say a few things, or to warn the MPs about what was going on, which we had the opportunity to talk about at the previous sessions, but since the topic is so important for Serbia's future, I think it's always important that we go back to it. When it comes to protecting domestic production, which we had here, in the last few minutes, an opportunity to listen to, I think agricultural production is something of the most vital interests, strategic interests for the Republic of Serbia. Of the countries that ratified the CEFTA agreement, you should know, the last state to ratify it, Bosnia and Herzegovina, has set up legal excise and customs mechanisms to protect itself from imports from Serbia and Croatia, namely its domestic agricultural production. The Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, does not behave like this when it comes to tobacco and oil, and agricultural production, which is important as a strategic product for a large number of people, and in trade chains, and of course for agricultural producers as number one, and in light of the filling of the state budget, of course what is important to the Republic. It is also impossible to talk about this law, nor about agriculture without any insight into the CEFTA agreement, which, in fact, if it is ratified by this assembly, predicts that the state will not be able to react to any contingents, or other agrarian measures, or other incentives, or premiums spoken of by my predecessor, colleague Krstin, we will not be able to help the domestic producer to achieve what the aim of the Republic of Serbia is, that we strengthen exports, that we are fighting for our own production. Every economic expert wants to tell you that something that every normal state advocates is freedom of trade, a big trade in goods, but among economies that are similar forces. Our economy, agricultural production, is in a very difficult position today. We are not able to be competitive on the market in a way that we can fight evenly without enough state protection, without telling you that agriculture is in a difficult state that it can't stand that the state isn't currently helping, even if it's the most important and underdeveloped branches. We're talking about agriculture, and we're in a situation where we don't have, for example, anti-building protection in Serbia, so when the first city falls half of the agricultural producers think about buying a gun or a gun, what to do, killing themselves. There's just no way they can be implemented without state aid. And by the CEFTA agreement, this state aid will be disabled because it will be treated as unfair competition. We are forced into the Law on tobacco customs issues, excise duties, especially on the problem of imports with Croatia, to resolve after the implementation of this agreement has started and we will put decision-making into the hands of bodies that Serbia will not have a significant impact on. We will have a situation that with opportunities and problems, which are of vital interest to Serbian production, countries that are directly competitive in imports will decide. I am simply sure that in these cases we will not have the opportunity to win this situation, or to make a fair decision. It is very important, when I talk about it, to support certain facts, such as in the import of agricultural products. I mention Croatia, as the strongest economy since the countries that have so far signed, or ratified the CEFTA agreement. We can say that food and drink are imported at 33 million and 175 thousand dollars, which is an increase of about 41.2% compared to the same period in 2005. Also, in the first seven months of this year, Croatia recorded an increase in exports of 8.5% to Serbia compared to the same period in 2006. It is very important, too, to say that a political climate was created within Croatia itself to make it impossible for the Serbian domestic capital, our state, to buy capital in Croatia, especially when it comes to large systems and trade chains. At the same time, Serbia opened its doors to everyone. You know what that means. Croatians have even on their economic sites of analysis, which they openly say Croatian consumers do not want and do not want to buy goods from Serbia, which will naturally cause more damage to Serbian products when, at worst, they appear on their market. So, what's the point, we need to protect our production. We have a first-class raspberries, raspberries such as do not have any Poland, which has a large production, or other countries of Europe. It's one of the strategic products, I take raspberries as one of our country's largest export products. We must not be in a situation where the state is not in a position to protect this production. Here, now we've got a milk shortage. I'm sure the Minister knows this, but what's the reason, what are the measures the state is about to take? What are the measures we're going to ensure that this doesn't happen? We won't be able to do it after the ratification of this agreement. So what Serbian radicals are fighting for in this assembly, which is why each of our MPs is trying to engage most strongly in this work, is to protect the domestic producer, our production, our Serbian product. Just that, nothing more, but nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6258	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6259	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, therefore, on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have been amended to the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. Therefore, Article 4 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 29 of Law item 1 point 7) after the word "Republics" is replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. ''Accepting this amendment prevents the monopoly of Stanko Subotic called Cane Frog, Peconia and others. What is now necessary to say is, just to remind ourselves, what point 7 of Article 29. Therefore, point 7) reads: "The right to participate in a public tender has a company, a company and an entrepreneur, if it fulfils the following conditions: (among others in point 7) to undertake to produce or purchase domestically processed tobacco in the amount of at least 50% of its own annual production of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the Republic, with that quantity not less than 2,000 tonnes per year. '"I read this with intent, with an apology for probably wasting your patience, taking a little more time, but simply the political stance of the SRS is that we will never be in favour of monopolizing the market. I'm glad Mr. Minister is here in the O.R., so we have the opportunity to express our views in public, and what the SRS would like to know is how this government is going to stimulate small tobacco producers. So, what you've been doing since the beginning, or since 2000, since the revolution you've promised the people a better life, an increase in standards and the end of the totalitarian system, and a complete devastation of all the institutions of the state, we've been waiting eight years to see which decision, which act, which act, you will take and spend that the life of an ordinary man, the average citizen, will be better. The SRS can only welcome attempts, but only attempts, which are obviously just declarative nature, resolutions actually with all criminal activities in society. However, on the basis of all the opportunities we have to see during these assembly sessions, you have failed to convince us in any act, and especially this proposal to amend the tobacco law, that you want this state, which has become a hiducia, to make a good and secure state. That you want to improve the lives of people who are on the verge of ruin, that you want to bring what this country seems to be losing forever. What our fear is, and we now know that this average man is following us, listening and watching, will continue to derrogate all the institutions that unfortunately exist, that the petty producer, in fact all the producers in the state of Serbia can only imagine what it looks like to live from their own work, because unfortunately, besides Canet, Peconia and them alike, they will never come to feed their families. They'll probably turn up to sell everything to repay the loans they're taking, because we're slowly, but we're certainly sinking into a completely slave-owned society, and they can only think about what it's going to be like the next day, whether some new regulation, a completely criminalized government... 'Cause I'm sorry, if the government doesn't implement what it says, and it is, we'll end up with all the criminals, here, we give full support to it. In 2003, Dr. Vojislav Seselj on 1,000 pages gave complete evidence to end the story with Stanko Subotic Canet. He then welcomed every act in the perspective of any government that caneta, but not a system of discrimination, and put all similar criminals where they belong, behind bars. What's a direct question, colleague, is this - why didn't it happen? What we are fully interested in is this - how long will it take for all such fish to be found in a network that the prime minister has begun to lower? It's sad that these stories are used regularly for individual promotions. It's sad that even every attempt at argument comes at laughter and ridicule, because as long as we sit here and try to follow what this government is doing, that average citizen doesn't see his perspective. That average citizen has no one to complain to. The average citizen is at the mercy of those who are slowly, but surely buying this country, buying politicians and living in parallel reality. I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to also answer my question, how this average entrepreneur or at least a citizen who fantasizes about taking a loan, to start some production, how this average man, with a big dream of a simple life, can do it with such bill. I would also like you to answer my next question -- how anyone in the state of Serbia can see that perspective, when the average profit is as large as it is, and pensioners have 8,000 per month. I would also like the entire Serbian government, which also lives in some parallel reality, because you know gentlemen and ladies, it's very difficult to imagine the life of a normal man from dark cars, from large squares of the apartment, from multinational companies, who earn as much as that average man can't even dream. I'd like to see every single member of the government and those who introduce such monopolization, draw fantastic jobs, which only bring astronomical gains to certain people. I'd like to see you, and you're facing it, and it won't be long, this will happen, to get out in front of people who will be on your streets, because they won't have anything to eat. To get out in front of people who can no longer think of which banks the parties can ask for new loans to refinance old loans. That's the reality of the simplest possible dictionary spoken. People who have absolutely no choice but to promise their children not foreign schools and universities, but only a man's life. The SRS, be sure, will endure to the end in everything that you are declarative principles and names and names will call anyone who has not impoverished us, although we do not live in this parallel reality, but who has made life miserable for every citizen of the Serbian state. On behalf of that every citizen of the Serbian state, who can only imagine what it looks like to include as much as 1,000 euros a month, be sure the SRS will fight by all means. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6260	I thank the People's Parliament to Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6261	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, in the amendments and additions to the tobacco law, as well as in the explanation of the amendments of my colleague, Marine Ragus, it is said that you are changing the law, as you say, because of harmonising our legislation with EU rules and laws, the World Trade Organisation and the CEFTA Agreement. According to this Article 4, just to remind ourselves, you suggest that a compulsory purchase be abolished, namely the production of homemade tobacco to tobacco producers, and that is explained by an equal treatment with foreign producers. You have released companies that are stronger than individual states, "Philip Morris", my colleague Stefanovic referred to that, "Bat", and Mr Dinkic could write to us in memoirs while he is in prison for his relationship with Japan Tobacco. I hope your memoirs come out very soon, that he'll be in jail, that we'll have a chance to read it. Since you say this law is changing and in line for the signing of the CEFTA agreement, I must once again point out how harmful this agreement is for our economy right now. I'll give you an example, in fact, of the official data of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. According to her data, only seven representative companies from Serbia work in Croatia, while in Serbia, Croatian firms have more than 190 representations. Between 1998 and 2006, Croatian companies invested 328.6m euros in Serbia, and in the last three years 100 million. Serbia's investment in Croatia is only 80,000 euros. You have to admit, it's really minor. I will just point out that the deficit in the trade of goods is a wide consumption with Croatia $14.8 million. So, one agreement is signed with the countries of the environment, above all with Croatia, and we know in advance that this agreement will not be implemented by the Croats. You know that Croatia and I have unresolved many other disputes. First of all, you know that Republika Srpska is temporarily occupied. We Serbian radicals do not recognize this occupation, normally. The Croats never defiled the victims of World War II genocide, the Serb victims, even in this war. I also mentioned a strong argument, it is a deficit in exchange with Croatia. This is how you open the door, through this law on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, "Rovinj" tobacco factory, which is a non-quality tobacco manufacturer. Normally, the tobacco industry is unhealthy and I can't praise the quality of a company compared to them, you open the door wide, you let Western companies, like Philip Morris, JTI and Bata, you have to explain to them why the excise duties on their cigarettes will be bigger and less on import cigarettes, the rubies. I will refer to another data, although Slovenia is not a member of CEFTA, the same terrible deficit in relation to the trade in goods of general consumption, and if my colleague Stefanovic says that on Croatian sites it is recommended not to buy Serbian goods, this is what I want to appeal to consumers in Serbia not to buy Croatian products, because this is because they finance some criminal projects against our people, that they do not buy Slovenian products, because Slovenia advocates an independent kiM, to think well before they look at their product on the shelf and decide to do so. Another one, Mr. Minister, I must inform the public of Serbia's damage to the CEFTA agreement, you, Mr. Vlahovic, Djelic, Cvetkovic, Dinkic above all, participate in a criminal association against our economy and financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6262	I thank Parliamentarian Topalovic. The People's MP Zoran Despotovic came forward, so Bozidar Delic. The SRS has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. This morning I received a fax as a representative of the municipality of Prepolje, which says: "We former workers of the shoe factory "The Limka" address you as the last and only institution that can help us solve our difficult position. In fact, on December 9, 2004, we went into the worst form of bankruptcy, i.e. The liquidations, and we workers stayed on the street and most of us are in a very difficult and unexplainable situation. We don't have basic incomes and living conditions. Our property was sold for 17 million dinars, and the goods themselves in stores of raw materials and finished products were worth around 11 million. Workers were not paid back or their earnings from the period 2001, 2002, 2003 and three months from 2004, as well as allowances that we did not receive under the law. All our attempts to get in touch with the bankruptcy manager (and you know that bankruptcy managers, along with the presidents of the trade courts, members of the bankruptcy mafia), were in vain because he treated us not as workers, but as people who do not have the right to enter the factory. We former workers of the Limka shoe factory (and Limka) are one of the extremely good factories, which worked as a boot for our army, even exported) ask for the following: to check with the Agency for Privatisation which was the real value of the factory, to examine the work of the bankruptcy manager, to put us in the same position with the other workers who remain unemployed, to find the possibility of paying back back the earnings, as well as the severance for workers who have lost their jobs. "It's none of this, Minister, of your ministry, but yet you are in power and you should hear this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6264	I thank Mr. Despotovic. The word is Bozidar Delic, vice president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6265	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like you to respond to how many acres this year have been planted with tobacco, because it is important, not only because this year has been very unfavourable, but also because of that legal provision that has been given here through Article 9. If you look at this argument, Mr. Minister, it is said that the tobacco industry employs 130 thousand people, that it makes up 6% of the total employees in the Republic or 11% of employees in the economy. I've tried all these days, as much as we're discussing this law, to find out where those 130,000 people were employed. We almost don't have any more domestic factories, factories are bought, here in each room there are two to three thousand people, you'll see that you can't go out to five thousand employees just in those factories. So, if we take employees in that whole system that used to be called the tobacco industry, it can't possibly be 30,000. It turns out, Mr. Minister, that then the 100 grand is exactly the category that is directly growing tobacco. This law that you have proposed just destroys that category, that most difficult category. If in every branch of the economy there's some work that's said to be people who eat bread with nine crusts, in agriculture it's people who grow tobacco, because I know it, and I used to do it myself, how hard it is. It's in the whole system of categories that make the least of their work. Looks like they're the last ones in a chain that only deals with the distribution and sale of tobacco products, that's the people who make the most money. It's these 100,000, there must be more, it's the category that's affected by this law. For what? Mr. Minister, if it is provided and so is said in Article 4, that this law eliminates the existing discrimination of domestic tobacco producers against foreign producers, not to ask you now who these domestic producers are, because these "domestics" are actually foreign producers and ask you to protect them from some other foreign producers by this law, because they bought our market and they want to remain alone on this market. Just because the tobacco industry has been a system so far, the people who planted that tobacco have been credited, starting with what they've been getting from other organizations, if it's tobacco, it might not be clear to some, there are varieties of tobacco called "punilator", that's "virginia" and "berlay," and there were those other varieties that give tobacco quality and aroma, that's what they call oriental tobacco, that I don't explain it in particular right now. One of my predecessors said that two and a half tons per hectare can be tobacco, it can only be 'virginia' and 'berley', while if we're talking about'stick' or any of these other species it can be far less, whether it's 'power', 'oil',' etc. When we have a year like this, then you can figure out from that what it's like to earn these people, and even if we know that there are when tobacco drys categorization, first class, second class, third class. Now there won't be any. If the obligation to buy the tobacco is lifted it is therefore an obligation lifted and anyone credits the production of tobacco. Tobacco is a non-eating thing, although there are some kinds of chewable tobacco. These people will no longer be in a position to plant tobacco, because until now that production has been credited and there has been a guaranteed ransom to the last kilo. There's no interest, there's no way these 100,000 people can survive growing tobacco further, they're going to have to be determined according to another agricultural production after all. The following is also important for Serbia, these varieties of tobacco, especially these aromatic ones, did not require quality land, while "virginia" and "berlay" were planted on quality land precisely because they could make large yields on such land, meaning that certain categories of land that have been practically engaged only for tobacco so far will not be planted on other agricultural cultures. Therefore, this law with such provisions should be considered, especially in Articles 4 and 9, where it is predicted that since 2008, there will no longer be a compulsory ransom, that it does not go in favour of our citizens, but goes exclusively to harm, and you, Mr. Minister, will not be able to say that you have 130 thousand employees, because then the tobacco, or that fermented tobacco as raw materials, will be imported from some other country, and our 100,000 people will practically be out of work. I wanted to draw your attention to something else. My data says 8.051 acres this year was planted with tobacco. If 2,244 tonnes of tobacco, i.e. tobacco products, were exported in 2005 and 4,015 tonnes in 2006, and total production in 2005 was around 22,000 tonnes. Therefore, if it is some 2,000 tonnes, and in our land every year, which through imports, through some other forms of production, goes 22,000 tonnes, then 2,000,4,000 thousand tons, as produced in our territory, should not be a problem for your ministry. But there will be a big problem, a social problem, if 100,000 people, because of these provisions in Article 4 and Article 9, are out of a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6266	I thank Mr. Bozidar Delic. National MP Sasa Valjarevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. Here you go, Sasha. I ask Mrs. Verico to take my place and manage the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as SRS MP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 to add Article 4a. Article 4a: Article 32 The law of the fourth word "indulgence" is replaced by the words "once a year". I wrote in my explanation that it is absolutely unnecessary to adjust the compensation twice a year for the reason that this government, as well as the previous one, claims that the inflation rate is low, which is not true. In today's Justice, Serbia's National Bank Governor Radovan Jelasic's latest statement that the National Bank of Serbia is preparing to introduce more stringent measures. And for what? Because it is provoked by a poor and irresponsible policy of the Serbian government. Here, your governor from your coalition, who otherwise had no support from the SRS and the Finance Committee, has not received support to pass and failed on the Committee, but he himself criticises the work of your government and all the ministries in which this dossage coalition is. What does he say? It states that the projected inflation in this year is 5.6%, and the latest information from the National Bank of Serbia is that inflation has already crossed 8%, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has provoked by public spending, as well as the private and state monopoly that the government is conducting. The National Bank is being built on not creating inflation, but it must fight it, since it cannot affect this irresponsible government and they have found the easiest solution, which is to reduce credit payments to citizens in banks. So, the SRS, which every day in all the media, accuses you of constantly calling on you not to do well, of constantly imposing on you some untruths, or telling the truths, you see that your governor also says that you are doing bad work and that these 100 days, on which you have shown that you have changed a lot compared to the previous government, is not true at all. I'll give you the latest data on what the image of Serbia looks like since this government worked. Serbia's foreign trade exchange with the world in the first four months of this year reached 7.7 billion dollars, but an external trade deficit of 2.7 billion dollars was recorded, which is 40% more than last year. Foreign trade debt, which ended in March 2007, amounted to $20 billion, which is 1.4% more than last year. For 83.3% is a multiple debt than in 2000. For seven years you have been in power, when you came to power, when you introduced that democratic option into Serbia, Serbian citizens are getting worse and worse. We're witnessing that after privatisation, millions of citizens are out of work. There's a similar situation in agriculture, very bad. What the new government is now trying to do now or what was promised by Mr. Minister and his party to improve agriculture by 100 euros per hectare, let's wait and see what his ministry does. I'm going to give you an example of how local self-government is doing with the SRS. We have a fund for agriculture where independent commissions, so they're not party, where we talked a lot yesterday when it comes to audits, but that people who are from professions, who understand agriculture, are considering all those proposals or all those projects that are being applied to by agricultural producers from the Pogorec municipality that I come from. And then credits are shared only by those projects that meet the criteria given to the competition. So, there are no political divisions, in the sense that only loans are distributed to similar party members or that is done, as you try in many local areas, to share loans to farmers, usually focus on those who are powerful agricultural producers, that, possibly, as good hosts in their midst, bring you as many votes as possible in the next presidential or local elections. I've given you an example of how the SRS is doing in the local environments, where they rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6268	The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is more about a technical amendment, so it is about how prices and duties of tobacco products and reprocessing are aligned. So far, the law itself says every six months, and the amendment has been proposed for a year. The government refused to accept this amendment. The question now arises, who is being protected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it protects cigarette manufacturers, not tobacco producers, what they now have, will be bought, and those who finish the job, what they have earned, have earned; protect their budget, of course, but again at someone's expense, the damage of Serbian citizens, not to the damage of those from CEFTE. Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia simply not recognise the real inflation, not the one published by your Republic Statistics Institute, because it is avoided all the time to say that what is fundamental to the citizens of Serbia, which is food, is expensive. It's not about single-digit inflation, double-digit inflation, it goes from 15% to 30%. I don't care about the citizens of Serbia, the vast majority, whether the more expensive refrigerators from Croatia, Slovenia, TVs from Taiwan, cars from Germany or any other Western European country, are interested in them, Mr. Minister, how much food they have accumulated and what inflation there is, and how much the state has worked to avoid such inflation. Many times in the not so distant past and the manipulations that take place around food production have shown us that Serbia, whether we want to admit it or not, is a agricultural agricultural agrarian country. That prices of life supplies disrupted all financial and production flows in the country, and even at one point in 1997 they managed to disrupt the national currency as well. I don't know if you remember that over-export from Montenegro, which was organised by your like-minded Milo Djukanovic, when the mark jumped from three to six dinars, precisely because of the price of living cattle in Serbia and the shortage made by the Montenegrin government at the time. You can't treat Serbian citizens like this and individual farmers. On the one hand, you don't protect strategic products, you don't protect domestic production. That's why there's a market disturbance. About a year ago, about this time, just when it comes to food production, there were also major market disturbances, especially when it comes to living cattle, meat and milk, and the reason: excessive imports. Another reason: the state did not bother to place extra products produced by our agricultural producers outside the country. Why do we have stock reserves, Mr. Minister? What are they for, just getting paid? When there were such serious disturbances, and it was a month ago, but you administratively banned it, they didn't intervened the stock reserves. Stock reserves are required, if the offer is higher when it comes to strategic products, to absorb and purchase the surplus product. When shortages occur, the same surplus will return to the market and in a certain way stabilise both producers and consumers. This government has never done that. Now we're witnessing that the meat has been picked up, the reason: the bad breed of corn. How did the Government of the Republic of Serbia prevent it? It prevented her from exporting cattle. Why didn't you, when there was a similar situation last year, buy out excess living cattle offers, now place it on the market and prevent any purchases, drastic meat purchases and other foods, and at that point prevent the destruction of a peasant or an individual agricultural producer? Such a concern about the only thing that remains seriously in Serbia has actually begun since the DOS came to power. Never, whenever inflation is discussed, agricultural production, etc., has anyone taken and seriously considered what will happen to those agricultural producers that do not fit your concept of agricultural production. So, the strategy is to build up agricultural households, to have more blocks, etc. And what will you do with those who cannot do so, and those are in the great majority? They're going here all over Serbia now with tobacco dealers, Mr. Minister, what are they doing? The farm land was never cheaper. The same money, which they earned by smuggling tobacco, buys the best agricultural land in Serbia and makes the start of a monopoly, a single empire. The deed is a deed, it can't be challenged, only if it can prove that the money is illegally acquired. As far as I can tell, they're now going to privatize some major systems. Answer me, Peconi, who got rich in cigarette smuggling, did he buy a farm-industry combination of "Verbas"? Yes, it is. Does he have the land next to him? It's going. It's not just about the warehouse space, etc. What money? I'm smuggling cigarettes. Then Dinkic shows up and says - we'll check all the privatisations, where the money came from, that someone didn't accidentally take the money from Cyprus without him knowing and not sharing it with him. That's the only reason Dinkic will control the origin of the money. But whoever stole with him and who he helped to do the job, that control will not be done. In a situation like this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia must finally tell the citizens of Serbia once how much it costs to live in Serbia, with all the taxes you've imposed, along with all the restrictions you've given to local self-government, along with all those false taxes that you've duped local self-government and transferred to them, those taxes that you can't charge and thus justify yourself to the citizens that someone else is going to introduce taxes to them, so all of this is some price that Serbian citizens pay and that makes certain inflationary flows in Serbia. So I don't see why this amendment wouldn't be accepted. If nothing else, the only one who can suffer some damage because of this is the wholesalers, not those small independent shops, and producers, or processors of tobacco processing, and not those who plant it and who invest the days of work and effort to create something for themselves and their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-19-0.u6270	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I thank the MPs in line and discipline, thank Mr. Minister and his team, thank Mark and the professional services for helping us finish this session successfully today. I thank you all. Please, it's not hard to be nice. The continuation of this agenda will be tomorrow at 10.00 hours. It would be my pleasure to re-manage under similar conditions. Thank you.
