ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 226 Members of the People. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the service to make a count of the Members of the people present. I find that the count finds that 230 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanovic and Vladimir Petkovic. I also inform you that they are invited to attend today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the MPs: Mr Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Slobodan Samardzic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, according to the members 87 and 88. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session: a representative of the Office of the European Union's Observer mission in Belgrade, representatives of "The Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed from 1998-1999 in Kosovo and Metohija" and representatives of Serbs from the Serb villages of central Kosovo. Allow me to welcome the guests present on your behalf and on your behalf. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, in agreement with the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the State Negotiation Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on the negotiations conducted in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007, with a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair settlement of the issue of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija based on international law, submitted by the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was called upon by 127 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Consideration of the State Negotiating Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on the negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007, with a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair settlement of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija based on international law, which the government submitted. According to Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will continue its work after 1800 hours, or until the work is completed on this agenda point. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – THE REPORT OF THE COUNTRY CONTRACTING TECHNICAL TEAM FOR KOSOVA AND METHOCHY ON THE CONTRACTINGS LEADING IN THE COUNTRY OF 21. FEBRUARY TO 2. MART 2007. For years, with a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair solution to the issue of the Kosovo-Methochia-led Kosovo-Methochy based State Negotiation Team for Kosovo and Metohija on negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007, with a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair settlement of the issue of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija based on international law, which the government submitted. You have received an amendment submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov on the motion for the resolution. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, MP Group "Liberal Democratic Party" - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, one national MP - 5 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. I give my word to Mr. Boris Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4913	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, has been a year and a half since the UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari began negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija in February 2005. The state negotiating team, based on the platform, has consistently represented the establishment of essential autonomy for the southern province of Serbia, in line with the provisions of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Defending Serbia's state sovereignty and territorial integrity, our negotiating team has offered a decentralisation model based on European solutions, which would effectively protect the interests of the endangered Serb community in the province and other non-Albanian ethnic communities. Starting with a firm view that any independence of Kosovo is absolutely unacceptable, the state-level negotiating team has offered Kosovo Albanians special rights and competencies for the autonomous development of their community within the Republic of Serbia. The result of Vienna's negotiations, as is known, did not lead to a desirable compromise, acceptable to both the negotiating sides, Belgrade and Pristina, nor to a solution that would, with mutual consent, with the application of European values, permanently resolve an old interethnic conflict, open the perspective of reconciliation and common life within modern democratic and European Serbia. Despite our genuine willingness to reach a compromise, neither on the Albanian side nor with international mediators, it was reluctant to respect the legitimate interests of democratic Serbia and the specific needs of the endangered Serb community in the province, as well as other communities that had been expelled, such as Roma and mountainous. On the contrary, Marty Ahtisaari's proposal opened the door to the independence of the southern Serbian province, offering Serbs from Kosovo far less than they have today, and for the eighth year it is insufficient to protect their vital interests, their survival and their return to their own homes. To remind me, more than 200,000 Serbs left Kosovo in 1999. To date, according to official UNHCR data, only 7100 have returned. The failure of the Vienna negotiations also resulted in the absence of a permanent UN Security Council member's agreement on the content of a new resolution on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Unity in state policy towards resolving the Kosovo issue has brought Serbia and adequate support in the international community, among individual EU members, but above all in Russia, whose commitment to the preservation of the principle of international law created the possibility of new negotiations without setting deadlines and a predetermined outcome. Today, negotiations continue and put under the auspices of the Contact Group, but a legitimate decision on Kosovo's future status can only be made by the Security Council. The UN institution's only decision can have confirmation of international law. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Serbia, given the moment when the negotiations on Kosovo begin, is better today, but this does not mean that we are in a great situation and that everything is settled. We have very difficult days and negotiations that do not yet know the form or who will lead them, and all of this has yet to be defined. In any case, there is a new chance of defending Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and there is a possibility that the process of negotiations eventually will have a compromise solution acceptable to both sides. Among the two calls of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the state negotiating team, consistent with the platform and mandate of the National Representation, managed first to postpone, and then to challenge the pre-arranged plan on the inevitable independence of Kosovo, which would only be confirmed by the final proposal, now fully challenged, Ahtisaari's plan. Serbia's top representatives rejected the plan as unilateral and unacceptable in March of this year's final session of the Vienna negotiations. Today, following the formation of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to educate a new negotiating team, which will have a clear mandate and appropriate powers to present new ideas to help reach a compromise solution to the province's status, in accordance with international law. With full respect for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, we advocate that such a solution be reached by diplomatic, legal and peaceful means, not by war and new violence. Let me remind you that the history of the Serbian-Albanian conflict lasts for decades and has culminated in the 1990s. However, one of the most vocal arguments used in the international community as a cause for granting independence to Kosovo Albanians is the violence of the Milosevic regime. At the same time, even some negotiators say Kosovo should be given independence in order to avoid potential violence by Albanians against Serbs. One party, therefore, is punished for applying violence by taking away part of the territory, and the other rewards by gaining independence just to avoid resorting to violence. Today's democratic Serbia does not accept the threat of violence as an argument to end the borders of legitimate democracies and to break international law standards. Serbia therefore warns of the inconceivable consequences of such an unscrupulous, wrong and dangerous policy and remains attached to the search for a peaceful and diplomatic solution. The threats of Kosovo Albanians, I repeat, are in sharp contrast with the European democratic principles that Serbia advocates, protecting the interests of all its citizens, which, of course, includes Kosovo Albanians. I therefore call on Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija to refrain from any form of violent, unilateral approach to resolving the province's status and their legitimate representatives to approach renewed negotiations in the spirit of democratic dialogue that would lead to interethnic reconciliation. The assembly resolution on Kosovo and Metohija should determine that Serbia has defined a single state position in negotiations on the province's future status. The resolution should once again confirm Serbia's policy in the process of resolving Kosovo's future status and put all state institutions behind it. It will be a significant message to international political actors. The resolution reaffirms that Serbia will fight all political and legal means to preserve integrity and sovereignty throughout its territory. It is important that the government of the Republic of Serbia draws up a negotiating team, in order for the institution responsible for the negotiations to get the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take the position of seeking a solution for Kosovo, which is acceptable for both sides. By safeguarding Serbia's integrity and sovereignty, we do not need to predefine measures towards those countries that, possibly, would unilaterally recognise Kosovo's independence, because this would prejudicially prejudge us for an unfavourable solution. Instead, Serbia must consistently, argued and persistently continue to defend its national and civil interests in the upcoming negotiating process. Parliamentarians, gentlemen, there will be intensive consultations with the international community, the EU, Russia and the United States on the form of future negotiations, on jurisdiction, on the number of new intermediaries, as well as on other technical details relating to the negotiations. I therefore expect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today to adopt a proposed resolution, to entrust the government of the Republic of Serbia with the mandate to educate the new negotiating team and support further efforts to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4914	I give my word to Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4915	Dear People's MPs, I am convinced that this is exactly the best time for the National Assembly to consider the current policy and determine Serbia's future policy in resolving the most important state and national issue, which is, of course, the issue of the future arrangement of the province of Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian Parliament, whether or not it should be reminded, is being held several days after important, and as may later show, the crucial event that took place in the Security Council. Namely, after a long trench struggle, which lasted since UN Secretary-General named Martti Ahtisaari as an international mediator, the US and European co-sponsors of the independent Kosovo resolution made a decision to withdraw their proposal from the Security Council. There should be no doubt that the proposed draft resolution aimed at ensuring the start of the Kosovo and Metohija independence process. Accordingly, it is clear that the withdrawal of the Security Council resolution represents a significant victory for Serbia and the result of Serbia-Russia's common policy, aimed at protecting the UN Charter and defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. We can safely say that this victory is over, in fact, the first phase of Kosovo and Metohija's defence. We know equally well that we now have an even harder fight and even greater temptations to try to keep Kosovo within Serbia's borders. But if we look back and look at what we have been able to do in the past few years just because we have been in agreement, then it is hoped that with the common forces behind which the whole of Serbia stands, we can still choose to achieve this greatest national and state goal. As is the time for this to be said "real", so the Serbian Parliament is the place where I want today to invite all citizens of Serbia, all institutions and all social, economic and cultural organisations and, of course, all political parties to show true patriotism and unity in a fair push to keep Serbia within its internationally recognised borders. I call for true patriotism because Serbia does not want to kidnap anything that is foreign, but rather wants to preserve what belongs to it under the UN Charter, which belongs to it under the Constitution of Serbia, which belongs to it according to democratic values and rules that apply throughout the world. Serbia, in one word, wants to preserve what is hers. In our hands it is therefore the strongest weapon of any true patriotism, and these weapons are justice and justice. In the previous period, we saw what all the policy of force was trying to contribute to Kosovo's independence and made sure that eventually the force remains powerless before the arguments of justice and justice. Dear MPs, it is a real opportunity to remind ourselves of several important facts that have marked this recently completed first phase of the negotiation process. You will remember that Ahtisaari was in early February, while the elections had not yet been completed, let alone a new government formed, brought to Belgrade, he said, a fair proposal on an independent Kosovo. You will also remember that Ahtisaari insisted that it come right in early February, because the negotiation process had to be completed by the end of June. Today it is July 24th and thanks to a clear, consistent, patient and determined common policy of the state institutions of Serbia, we are at the beginning of a new negotiating process to resolve the future arrangement of the province. For this, now-versed, new site in the fight for Kosovo, the National Assembly must establish its resolution a continuation of a policy that will be based on just now shown clarity, consistency, patience and determination. The natural expectation is that Martti Ahtisaari will not participate in the new negotiation process and that his role has ended with the withdrawal from the Security Council of a resolution based on his plan. That, in fact, finally ended the Ahtisaari era and his plan is now part of the past. On the eve of new negotiations, the most important thing is to establish a basis for the talks that can lead to a compromise solution. The only path in determining this basis for negotiations leads us to Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. The essential elements of Resolution 1244 are the only possible basis for successful negotiations, and three are, as is known, the key elements of this resolution: 1) to explicitly confirm Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity; 2) that the solution is essential autonomy for the province and 3) which is particularly important, that there is no mention of Kosovo and Metohija's independence in the resolution. Starting with these three essential elements of Resolution 1244, Serbia will, as so far, participate constructively in the new negotiation process. It is understood that new negotiations can be conducted under the sole mandate of the Security Council, as only this UN high body has the mandate to make decisions on the future arrangement of the province. The role of the Contact Group was undoubtedly very important in directing negotiations in the process so far. After all, the Security Council approved the so-called. Contact Group's leadership principles, as some kind of conversation guideline. The Contact Group worked to a significant extent complexly, until Ahtisaari made a plan on the independence of the province, which the Contact Group had never adopted. Serbia expects the Contact Group to be active, but also to have the whole new negotiation process under a clear mandate of the Security Council. It is only natural and logical to adopt a new Security Council resolution based on a compromise solution, which the two sides come into negotiations. In the new negotiation process, it is particularly important to call all things a real name, which means there is no problem with Kosovo and Metohija, because it is an inalienable and inseparable part of Serbia's territory. There is something else, an open issue of the Albanian national minority in the province, and it is necessary to find the right solution to this issue through constructive dialogue. The historical fact is also well-known that the Albanian people have already self-determined once and when the Albanian state was created. In any case, nowhere in the world, no national minority has the right to self-determination and to break up recognised international states. The question is how many countries would even keep their borders if all national minorities around Europe and the world started to self-determinate. To say that the Albanian national minority is special and has special rights, as well as that the state of Serbia is special and that only it can be broken, as well as to argue that such a thing will never happen again on the globe of the Earth again, is a safe start of undermining the very foundations on which the peace and stability of the existing international order rests. Serbia therefore calls on European countries that have developed autonomy systems for their national minorities to tell us -- this is how we resolved our national minority issue, why Serbia does not take over the same model. We immediately respond in advance that Serbia is ready to accept every form of autonomy that exists today in Europe. Who can argue that this is a European way of resolving the situation of the Albanian national minority in KIM? Dear MPs, it is also important to address two kinds of threats coming from Albanian separatists. The first is their favorite threat of resorting to mass terror if they do not gain independence and that innocent victims will actually be responsible for this violence. The international community, which has taken full responsibility to ensure peace in the province, is obliged to respond to this brutal blackmail by Albanian separatists with a clear and firm message. The second threat is seen in announcements that Albanian separatists will unilaterally declare independence. I must say that the long tradition of unfair declaration of independence in Kosovo is and it is clear that the Serbian government will immediately annul such an anti-legislative act. We cannot, unfortunately, rule out a single number of states to recognise the province's unilaterally declared independence. We have seen such announcements coming from individual countries for the time being in ambiguous form, but let us now ask ourselves, what would, in fact, mean such recognition of Kosovo's unilateral independence. This would mean that when representatives of the force's policy, when they realize that their project cannot be obtained in the Security Council by the necessary legal legitimacy, they simply decide to violate the Security Council's decisions. This would not only be a violation of the Security Council's decisions, but would be a direct violation of the World Organisation's authority and an open message that the force's policy opposes a valid order in the UN. In other words, in this dangerous scenario, there would be new rules, under which anything that cannot be passed through the Security Council in a regular way, can be achieved through a detour, at the cost of direct treading of UN institutions and rules. It is our duty that, while there is still enough time, we patiently and persistently explain that decisions on the future arrangement of the province cannot be made anywhere but in the Security Council and that this solution must be compatible with the UN Charter. No country, however powerful, must put its policy above the UN. Any recognition of Kosovo's unilateral independence would mean nothing more than implementing a force policy. Let this home today make it clear and loud that Serbia is in advance rejecting the policy and policy of force and any recognition of unilateral independence that would result from such legal violence. In any case, all states that want to have normal and friendly relations with Serbia will have to respect the UN Charter and Security Council documents guaranteeing the invariability of internationally recognised borders and the territorial integrity of Serbia. It would be particularly important that NATO pact member states, which bombed Serbia without the approval of the Security Council, strictly adhere to the UN Charter and Resolution 1244, so that no way would lead to Serbia's bombing with an attempt to declare the province's independence. Our citizens should know that in the international community, Kosovo's representatives often fight a lifeless fight to achieve their goal. Thus came a frequently mentioned, almost commonly, objection that Serbia allegedly knows what it will not, but not what it wants, and that Serbia, in fact, did not offer a single solution during these negotiations, a concrete solution for the province. And the truth is that unlike the Albanian side, whose entire platform is reduced to the word "independence", we have offered a clear and concrete solution in terms of essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. This solution, developed and developed, was contained in the National Negotiation Team Platform, which was adopted in early 2006. That is why Serbia is demanding and again expecting the international community to listen very carefully and consider our proposal for a future arrangement of the province. The time has come for real negotiations and, if there is a good will, solutions can indeed be made that will satisfy the basic interests of both the Albanian national minorities and the state of Serbia. Such a solution can and must be reached and therefore, not only for the sake of this solution, not only for Serbia's sake, but for the sake of relations in the Balkans, such a solution can and must be made in order to preserve peace and stability throughout the region and in many other parts of Europe and everything. At the very end, honourable MPs, I invite you to support the proposed resolution, which determines the policy to resolve the future arrangement of our southern province. Only here, in the National Assembly, can we achieve unity and overcome all party differences when it comes to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. So far, the unity that has been achieved in the National Assembly has yielded great results and played a great role in everything we have done so far. I especially remind you that the invaluable support of our allies in the fight for Kosovo will depend to a good extent on whether we are and how unanimous we are. We are so much longer obliged to do everything that depends on us and everything within the limits of our powers, that Serbia remains whole within its internationally recognised state borders; only that and nothing more. And finally, Serbia today in its National Assembly confirms that Kosovo and Metohija are built into the deepest foundations of the Serbian state and that Kosovo is a aggregate name for our national being, culture, religion, for our history and the future. But, with this, gentlemen of Parliament, that Kosovo really needs to be independent, then someone before us would decide to give it independence. Our generation must not and will not give, and if we do not give it, we can be sure that Kosovo and Metohija remain forever where they belong, in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4916	Thank you. I give the word to the proposing representative, Mr Slobodan Samardzic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4917	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the Assembly, members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, this assembly is due today to adopt two documents, so the report by the negotiating team from the final round of negotiations in Vienna and a new resolution. That's why, in order to explain and explain, I'm going to say something about both of these documents, after which I expect the discussion to develop. So, first about the first document, about the report. The report was composed by the co-ordinators of the State Negotiation Team, Leon Cohen and myself, Slobodan Samardzic, some time ago, so when the talks ended. It refers, as you had the opportunity to see, to the content of the negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. An integral part of the report is the presentation of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica at the final meeting in Vienna on 10 March. As you may have noticed, the report was also accompanied by a speech by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica at the UN Security Council session on 3 April 2007. As the Assembly rejected Ahtisaari's comprehensive proposal for a solution to Kosovo's status on 14 February and gave a clear mandate for the upcoming talks, the negotiating team used this round of negotiations, which lasted from 21 February to 2 March this year, to table amendments to all provisions of the proposal, which were not in line with Serbia's state policy and with the positions of the negotiating team, represented during the negotiations during February to September 2006. The report sums up the essence of our views on a whole series of issues that have been the subject of negotiation. A large number of amendments and the fact that they cover all parts of Ahtisaari's proposal, so both the introduction and the annexes, other than the Annex 10, which speaks of a possible UN mission, best says how much Martti Ahtisaari and his team were biased intermediaries during these negotiations, is understood to harm Serbia. The report shows that our team has developed our state platform and transformed it into a legal form of a solution on a wide scale of issues that have been negotiated, from the most general to the most specific and specific issues. The structure of the report does not follow the structure of Ahtisaari's proposal but, covering every part of this proposal, follows matter of importance for Serbia. Therefore, he has a brief introduction. He then refers to the issue of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The next part is -- international goals and a mediator -- as Serbia sees it with its amendments. Then the third part is the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, the issue that was of great interest and interest to the international community. In these amendments, and thus in the report, details were given of the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija. Then the fourth part of the report is dedicated to constitutional provisions, the relationship between the Constitution of Serbia and the Constitution of Kosovo and Metohija. Part five is dedicated to decentralisation. Then comes the question of the right community, about the judicial system; about property and privatisation; about Serbia's international debt located in Kosovo and Metohija, for which we propose a solution and agreement. And finally, the final content part of the report is the one concerning the position of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the protection of religious and cultural heritage. Finally, there is a brief conclusion that the co-ordinators, the report writers, proposed as the conclusion of the report itself. Although the negotiations, led by Martti Ahtisaari, did not deliver results despite his so-called comprehensive proposal for us being unacceptable, for our side the last round of negotiations was not a vain business. It should be noted that during the negotiations, between February and September 2006, we were in a certain political, diplomatic and media blockade when it comes to our proposal for Kosovo and Metohija's future status. It is best said that during the entire negotiations it was only one day dedicated to the main subject of the negotiations, which is the status of Kosovo and Metohija, on 24 July 2006, therefore, exactly one year ago. Because of this, we used the last round in Vienna to expose our positive solutions to all issues and to later learn about the wider circle of international diplomats and politicians about our visions, but also to show what we will insist on in further negotiations. When these negotiations come on the agenda, negotiations on the status of Kosovo and Metohija itself, which is, in turn, inevitable, our position, which is detailed in these amendments, will take place in full expression. Let me continue in this place on another document that this assembly should adopt, which is a resolution. Since the last negotiations in Vienna, much has happened in the international plan to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status. One markedly negative trend was a line of attempts by a number of Western countries to impose Ahtisaari's proposal, despite our determined and reasoned rejection, as a basis for resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status. After a brief phase, in which further negotiations were said to be unnecessary and that imposing a solution was certain, it moved to a phase of pressure on the adoption of the Security Council with the following objectives. I'll brief them. The first objective of this resolution was to call off the practical repeal of Resolution 1244. The second was the arbitration declaration of Kosovo and Metohija by a single case, to a unique extent that it could not be subject to international law. The third objective of this resolution was to organise new negotiations with limited duration. So, up to 120 days, with the automatic application of at least two annexes of Ahtisaari's plan: one on the establishment of a European Union mission in the area of police and justice, and the other on the establishment of a new military mission in Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, the fourth goal of this non-judicial resolution was the most difficult but least visible, therefore, to the overly silent transfer of more jurisdiction of the current UNMIK civilian mission to the institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. All these goals that were to be translated into a new policy of the United Nations in the province made negotiations too high. That's why our side has resolutely rejected these proposals. Our persistent and principled request for all this time was – negotiations without conditions. We officially launched such an initiative with the Secretary General of the United Nations on 25 May. Due to the Security Council's disagreement over the attempt to impose a solution through a new resolution, and above all because of the Russian Federation's determined stance, numerous proposals and resolutions of the United Nations Security Council were rejected and finally removed from the agenda a few days ago, finally removed from the agenda. As is known, the Security Council has transferred the consultations on further steps to the Contact Group. This formation will act in the direction of formulating the proposal to continue negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. At this point, it is unusually important that the National Assembly of Serbia adopt a new resolution. It needs to determine direction, basic guidelines and a general framework for the continuation of negotiations. As was the case in November 2005, when a decision on the start of the negotiations was taken and then in 2007 when a decision was taken to reject Ahtisaari's proposal and finalise the proposal he made, a decision should be taken today to start a new phase of negotiations. Such a resolution should, as was the case with the previous one, represent a key orientation in continuing the functioning of all state authorities, especially the new negotiating team. For all who continue to work on this matter, the resolution will represent a binding framework of action. However, it does not matter which assembly majority adopts such a resolution, because Kosovo and Metohija are not just a matter of government, nor is it alone, and even less is a party matter. This is today a key state issue, which should be looked at not only in the text of the Resolution, but also in the position of all MPs of the National Assembly and each individual on this issue. That is why we have consulted all the parliamentary clubs and practically all the political parties in this assembly on the text of the motion for a resolution, which is made in the Government, and adopted most of their concrete proposals. If such a document is adopted by the majority of the MPs of the National Assembly, then it is proof of the highest level of state policy and then absolutely obliges all those who implement the state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. Then it's proof of both mature and democratic policies. And when such a policy is conducted, and the greatest opponent begins to respect you and at least seeks to understand, if not to accept the reasons and goals of your actions. Our reasons and goals for Kosovo and Metohija are very simple: we are for compromise, peace and reconciliation. We are not looking for anything by nature that doesn't belong to every country in the world, which is to preserve Serbia's state integrity and its international sovereignty. We offer maximum self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, and we are ready to leave one part of the guarantees to the international community. These reasons and objectives will be laid out and defended during the upcoming negotiations, only if they are real, just and fundamental negotiations, which has not been the case so far. To go in that direction, as we have so far, we need the approval of this congregation in the light of a new resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4918	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladan Batic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Please, MP Vladan Batic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4920	I don't understand what you're trying to do, so I gave my word to the MP Vladan Batic, because he first advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Batic. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4921	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and I request an explanation from the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the president of the National Assembly, why the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was not held. Because if there should ever be a session of that committee, which was celebrated and praised when it was formed, then I guess it should have been about this debate. That didn't happen, so I'm looking for an explanation why it didn't happen. Otherwise, the committee had only one pointless session, representing part of the Kosovo and Metohija budget, after it was already adopted. So it's a cheap demagogy, anyway, it's an irresponsibility, which has been demonstrated here for a long time. Otherwise, without any doubt, I speak here on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is not for the independence of Kosovo and Metohija because we believe this would mean a violation of the fundamental principles of international law, above all the Charter of the United Nations. But the Democratic Party of Serbia is neither for the patriotism contest, which is here on the agenda, nor for the new cycle of folk heroic songs about Kosovo and Metohija, for the willingness to spite and defiance the whole world, for returning to the crazy Milosevic politics that cost us dearly, for the politics of fresh humms and black banners, instead of white diapers and children's laughter, for the cheap stories of patriotism, which in the past ended with sad tractor columns in front of factory halls and sports halls, in front of the columns on which our national history, our national pride and national identity was loaded. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is also a question of responsibility for those who put it all on one map, on the map of Russia, which are some plans, secret secrets, as if it were the Protocol of the Sionic Wisemen, brought not into the National Assembly, but Putin, and that the elected representatives do not know what is in those plans. So they claim that they beat Ahtisaari, that they beat the Security Council, that in the new war against America for Kosovo they won victory, and if so, they should get all the recognitions and all the glory they have. But what if that is not the case, if it remains just a wish or a swan song, then it raises the question of responsibility and then there is no more blasphemy about the conspiracy of the whole world against Serbia and Serbia, then it is no longer worth talking about foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors, then that should mean a definitive departure from the political scene. Thank you. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4922	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, on the basis of Article 100, I am advocating the following infringements to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Article 104, Article 136, item 2 and item 3, Article 137 and Article 160. Let me explain and not include the time I need to quote, based on article 100. Rules of Procedure. I thank you very much, and I congratulate you on your courage in the beginning that you've taken great courage in my case. It is a member of 104th is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and this time, and for who knows which way, it does no less or less the government, what little dignity we have in public first threatens the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, next way. First, on February 14th, we adopted here a resolution under which the government and the negotiating team were obliged to deliver this report, because the government is responding and reporting to the National Assembly, and it has not been delivered to us, here, it has been six months. Now in Article 8, of the proposed Resolution, you say again that the government will report regularly. It should either stand, at least twice during the negotiations or once a month. Secondly, this session, at which we were offered to discuss the motion for a resolution, whose motion was made by the Government, was announced in the media on July 24th, and I, Mr. President, had to urinate with you about 18 hours yesterday in order to get a report and a proposal. In addition, it has not gone through the competent Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, neither the Resolution nor the report. So that the government constantly violates the dignity of the National Assembly and all the most important decisions for these four years, as much as Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is headed by the government, so also the Constitution, and the night election of the president of the Assembly, and the night budget, and the night election of the government, and this session will be nighttime too. Now I'm just wondering if to prevent the public from getting well informed or if I don't know what, to be watched by owls maybe. Article 136, Mr. President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 2 states that resolution must contain an explanation, and it is tax-listed what everything, but point 3 says, means, and an individual explanation of all legal institutes and individual solutions. I think here, if you read it, this is called an explanation and an explanation, but it's just a copy of points 2, 4, 5 and 6, and many items are looking for an additional explanation and an explanation. For example, point 6 of the sentence reads: "The Government of the Republic of Serbia and all state authorities are obliged to give timely and energetic answers to any hint or act of any international entity." So why there is no explanation in the explanation of what a energetic response means, what a hint or any other act of the international community means. We are not the Swiss Parliament, but even if we were, and then we should have such an explanation, without reminding you that we are the parliament of a state that until 7 years ago had the most infamous possible history precisely because of the energetic answers we have provided. Furthermore, Article 136(1) states that the resolution must be drawn up in accordance with the general principles of international law. And in point 5. Resolutions, the National Assembly requests from the United Nations, then the National Assembly requests from the Secretary-General of the United Nations; these are not well accepted international norms. I am surprised that MPs of the democratic majority, Mr. President of the State, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Chief of Parliament Club, who has been President of the International Committee since 2001, have not fought that, at least instead of this request, we do not have to be condescending, I do not advocate it, we expect, or another expression. This resolution is basically just serving to cool off relations with the international community, to threaten. On the other hand, there's a cat in a bag, because we don't have enough information and explanations. I ask the MPs of the democratic majority only, do you think it would be a better international signal, if you were this resolution, which, like ours, would have been submitted yesterday, but only today was it first assumed by a European clear, unequivocal definition, then taken care of the Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4924	Thank you. You're out of time. I am obliged to give you an answer, so the session is scheduled pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and pursuant to Article 167(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The agenda was set by the MPs who scheduled this extraordinary session with their signatures. Are you satisfied with the answer? If not, in the voting day, we will determine whether there has been a breach of those members. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I do not want us to enter this trap that exists at the beginning of this session. We saw this session as a session in which we should try to express the unity of Serbia, Serbia's state, the Serbian people and political parties in Serbia over the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we do not want this session to turn into an interpartial debate, because it would probably have to report several times for the replica of what Mr Batic said. But more important than our interpartisan debates is how unique Serbia will be today. It seems to me that the aim of some MPs is to make a mockery of today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I call on all the MPs to refrain from interpartial debates and to take care of what time we are today as a state and a people. I would also warn the President of the Assembly, both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and I would like to ask Serbia's Radio-Television to transfer this session directly to its satellite programme. I think it's very important, I don't know if there's a more important event in Serbia right now, and it certainly seems to me that today this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is more important than "Varosharia", which is currently being broadcast on the Serbian Radio-Television satellite programme. At least we owe it to Serbs living outside Serbia, because it is not right for them to be informed through other means of public information, not through state-run Radio-Television. That's why I reported to the Rules of Procedure to ask the president of the National Assembly, I don't believe there is a technical problem, I think it's very easy to transfer this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on the RTS satellite channel. We as a people must be unique, whether unlived in Toronto, or living in Kosovo and Metohija, or living here in Belgrade, all have a common position at this time, which is that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4926	Thank you. I'll ask RTS to come out and allow this session to be transferred via satellite. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4927	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we held as head of the parliamentary groups a preparatory meeting before this session, with the intention and ambition that this session should indeed pass in an atmosphere that is different from the one marking the usual work of the Republic Parliament. But, Mr. Dulic, you, as president, must respond to those obligations that assume our parliamentary status as your party duty. There are no elementary conditions here for a normal parliamentary debate. Natasa Micic's letter does not have an hour in front of it, you did not warn her in time about the length of her discussion, you interrupted her in half of the sentence, and in such a way tried to demean her assembly performance. We will not make this parliamentary session what parliament most often is, we will try to defend our political positions with arguments. The thesis of unity is something we can talk about, but it doesn't come to unity by thinking with one head. So, please continue to be as you are at our consultations, to respect the atmosphere in which we work, the conditions in which we work, and you have enough tact and understanding for our MPs, because we will not allow public humiliation, since we have no right to such a thing because we are representatives of citizens who have their dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4928	Thank you very much. Mr Jovanovic, we will also look at the stenographic notes, and I warned Mrs Natasa Micic after the end of the third minute and then I warned her again after the end of the fourth minute. She talked for five minutes in total. She advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure regarding the process of supplying materials and the time you had was five minutes outside of the time you used to quote members. We'll take a look at that in the stenographic notes, make sure that's the case. I suggest we continue our work. The word is made by the president of the SRS Parliament Club, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to in any way interfere with the adoption of this resolution, I must inform the public of Serbia that you have the Government of Kosovo and the Metohija, and that it is enough for you to have the majority, to automatically imply the support of the SRS and to see it in everything that has been happening around this session. Indeed, for seven days the media has known there will be a session today. Yesterday morning, state television announced that the government would consider yesterday's report and adopt it, propose a resolution. Yesterday, at 15.10, it seems to me that the government is sending the Assembly a motion for a resolution, yesterday the signatures of the majority MPs asking for a session appear, last night the other MPs are receiving a report and a motion for a resolution. For two days, this hall is cooled so that Mr. Prime Minister and the President of the State would be separated from the MPs, that by chance someone would not throw them away, that the crown would not bend or fall off their heads by accident. Judging from the fact that MPs G17 plus drink water and Mr. Ilic, as if he had gone under the tent earlier, apparently this hall was not prepared, nor is it good for this debate. Let's discuss the report. First of all, this isn't a negotiation report. We really don't know, reading this report, what was it about negotiations. This is a comparative analysis of the Ahtisaari proposal and the amendments submitted by our negotiating team. I have indeed expected a report on the course of the negotiations, and I am particularly interested in why Mr Leon Cohen left the team, out of a protest that the president of Serbia is carrying out talks and engages other negotiators on Kosovo and Metohija. The negotiating team quoted our resolution in its report on the first page and found that he was obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly immediately upon his return to the negotiations, which decides on a further course of negotiations. And then the negotiating team informs us that at the end of the negotiations in Vienna, I learned from Mr Samardzic and Koin that they were also in China, and in this report it informs us that on March 22nd, probably in New York, the negotiators spoke with the ambassadors of UN Security Council members. The negotiating team had the mandate to negotiate in Vienna, to report afterwards to the National Assembly, and thus its mandate was shut down, it stopped. Mr Samardzic, I have unlimited confidence in you, but you should have respected your knowledge and told those who said you will now go to Beijing, so you will go to New York - sorry, but I do not have a warrant from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A team before you deceived us today, so you said the National Assembly rejected Ahtisaari's plan, and the motion for a resolution says well that the Republic of Serbia rejected it. The government rejected Ahtisaari's plan. You didn't invite us to sit down and talk about Marty Ahtisaari's plan. I'm not saying we wouldn't reject it, but you have avoided the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia rejecting Marty Ahtisaari's proposal and you have very little support for Russia in efforts to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. I see this Serbian leadership as people who right now, someone who honestly doesn't, are helping Russia preserve Kosovo and Metohija. The motion for a resolution, along with this remark, would be good if the National Assembly discussed Marty Ahtisaari's proposal, you predicted that the National Assembly would reject the plan, but then do not say that the Assembly rejected it. You are now proposing that we establish, "new negotiations must be open to outcomes and durations". Now, if Ahtisaari led the negotiations with a clear outcome, he immediately said, oddly enough, in words just spoken by the president of the Republic, that because of the violence of Milosevic's regime we lost Kosovo and Metohija. So he already said immediately that as far as the outcome is concerned, it is clear that Kosovo and Metohija must be independent. You must not start new negotiations and be open to outcomes. You are leaving here with the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make the final outcome of the negotiations Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. There is no openness to the outcome, you have no mandate at all to open the issue of the outcome: either it will be Serbian or you have not negotiated. Besides, you do not mention too much of the provisions of Resolution 1244 which are not respected. You know very well, unfortunately, Mr. President of the National Assembly has not granted the National Assembly a debate on the proposal for a resolution of the SRS on Kosovo and Metohija. In this motion for a resolution, and I would like you to read it in more detail, so we put in a few more of what we asked for, it is clearly required, why not, from the United Nations Security Council, to respect Resolution 1244 and especially those provisions that Mr Boris Tadic said in the campaign that they do not write at all in the resolution and that it is not true that we have the right to return a number of soldiers and police officers, that we have the right to return to the essential border crossings of the Republic of Serbia's administration. You didn't tell anyone who was responsible for not respecting Resolution 1244, and you're not looking anywhere for it to be respected. You say you don't need a new resolution before the negotiations are over. It's true, but what are we doing with this resolution? In most cases, the international community acts as if Resolution 1244 does not exist at all. Of course, it's unclear what you're trying to say. I must admit that I'm pleased that the government and the president are following the SRS, not at the pace we're setting for you, and then, after a few months, it turns out that you've reached them, then we have to set up new ones for you. In this resolution, I can sense that you would do something to international entities that recognise Kosovo and Metohija. I think an international entity is a state. I think you meant countries here, with me reminding you that there are international organisations. But I don't know what you'd do. How would you treat the state, first of all, towards self-declaration of independence? You can't tell the National Assembly that you'll answer in good time. The National Assembly must tell you how to respond. It's not in your hands. If it's in your hands, don't even ask us for a resolution. You have the public consent to defend Kosovo and Metohija, you won't tell us how you're going to do it, then you do it. As you have agreed and what your government is like, so do you. Don't tell us that the government will respond, and we, in blissful ignorance, wait for the government to respond. This is not a good relationship with the National Assembly. I confess that MPs are most of the government's slaves. That's what you can see from the express summoning of this session. You sign the blank and there the secretaries of the parliamentary clubs collect them, when there's enough, stand, don't matter, it's called a session. I don't want to be in this way. I want to tell you, on behalf of those citizens who are not with you, and there are enough of them, we are state-of-the-art, we want to save Kosovo and Metohija, we are not in power, you want to keep it, we will help you. But you have to respect those who love Serbia above all else, those who don't deserve it, and today provide assistance when it comes to vital national interest. And you know who we're helping right now. And to you, Mr. President, who in the campaign told you that you were not optimistic and that Kosovo and Metohija were closer to independence than to remain within Serbia. Didn't that encourage the Shiptars to move on? Those of you who here are saying that our friends in the world are extremely struggling for our cause, and you are still struggling to be a member of the organizations in which our enemies are. If Mr. Kostunica says today that we have friends in the world who defend Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, what are they other to us? What is a pandan of the words of a friend, an enemy? To us, America is the enemy, is the European Union our enemy, or is Russia our enemy? Let's settle today, let's vote if Russia is our enemy or if America is our enemy. They can't both be our friends. This kidnapping, this one's defending us. Who's our friend here? What friends in NATO? NATO's our friend, right?- I'm sorry. Ohio's our friend?- I'm sorry. All that sounds nice. We'll do anything to be in NATO, and we need a Russian veto! If you're schizophrenic, we're not. Our brains aren't that divided. We can clearly, peasantly tell who our friend is and who our enemy is. In addition, just a few days ago, the president of Serbia said Serbia is not considering breaking up diplomatic relations with states that recognise independent Kosovo and Metohija, because, he says, it would be isolation, this is what these losers do -- radicals. Then what will the government do, Mr. Prime Minister? In that government, it is an important member of the DS, whose president and president is Serbia. You are here telling us the government's measures towards states that recognise independence, the president of Serbia in public says these measures are not an end to diplomatic relations. What are those measures, then? Not to remind you that America has declared the KLA a terrorist organization and today the struggle of that terrorist organisation has been turned into an independent territory in which they have dealt with terrorism. Not to remind you that, when you came to power, you immediately let those terrorists out of all prisons in Serbia, continue to negotiate with them today. We are told here, even in the name of the resolution, that it is in accordance with international law. To remind you now that US Ambassador Polt was on TV B92 two months ago, on the question of the negotiators – how he comments on the flagrant violation of the UN Charter, international law, and the Helsinki document, said the Security Council would decide on Kosovo and Metohija's independence and thus will automatically supplement the UN Charter, to enrich the minority's international right to the integrity of the sovereign democratic country's borders. Will what the ambassador declares, before which everyone stood still, become part of the international law that we are calling upon here? As far as we're concerned, we find no justification in the requirements for independence in the violence of Slobodan Milosevic. That should be a shame, Mr. Tadic. Never in any country will the president of the state speak ill of his predecessor, who has been chosen with much more votes than you will ever dream of, and secondly, you justify absolutely everything they do in trying to make Kosovo and Metohija independent, and so on. an international community or Western civilization in encouraging or in support of doing so. There was no violence by Slobodan Milosevic in Kosovo and Metohija. And if they'd gone to my Kragujevac with guns to wait for the police and the military to kill, the police and the military would have to intervene in Kragujevac as well. What could be said – the violence of Slobodan Milosevic against Kragujevac? Treat Kosovo and Metohija as Serbia and then, as today. And today, Mr. President, if someone were to ambush and kill a policeman, what would you do? You would commit violence against the one who killed the policeman? You're admitting it here today in a speech that you should present yourself as a patriot at the start of a campaign for the president. It's not worth it, when actors learn their role well, they can play well. I've seen how well you've acted in front of those cameras that have been exorcised when you've finished your speech, but when a man scratches you, when he asks you for a solution, you don't have a solution. If you did, you wouldn't, as defence minister, and then as president, destroy the entire army. I'm not talking about the war. Whoever loved him, be at his house. I'm talking about defending Kosovo and Metohija, defending all possible means. It's your duty. Although you did not show up at the Serbian Parliament to take an oath to the new constitution. That would really be welcome, even from the MPs of the SRS. You're not the president of the new constitution. You are avoiding this new constitution because that oath is binding on the President of the Republic. I wish the Government in the Government Act had foreseen the same text of the oath, very similar to that of ministers, so the MPs did not choose you to set up national offices, to enjoy functions and privileges, you have the right to do so, but they chose you to protect them when necessary, and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in particular. How I wish that, instead of attacking us radicals about Kosovo and Metohija, you would have attacked those international actors and officials who kidnapped Kosovo and Metohija. How I wish you hadn't invited Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the polls, despite all parties' views in Serbia, despite the attitude of his Holiness, Patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul. I'd expect that from the President of the Republic. The resolution is unclear. That looks nice. We'll vote for this, I'm telling you right now. We didn't even give the amendment. It's pointless to burden you with amendments. The resolution is something farthest I've expected from you. If someone had told me a year ago that you were going to stand behind words like this, I'd say it's certainly not possible. You've reached what was supposed to be done months ago. I'm telling you, you're gonna have to keep going. Are we gonna let the government set up a new team for Kim? I see, it says here - the government is obliged to form a team. I suppose it is authorized, but well, it even says it is required to report regularly to the National Assembly on the international and internal situation with regard to KIM. I'm looking at a diary, I'm reading bulletins, and I don't need you to keep me informed of the international situation. You're supposed to keep me informed of the course of negotiations, what you've been avoiding for as many months. He says the government is going to form a new team. Will the government avoid the SRS again? I'm telling you, if you want the radicals to be on that team, we have to lead it. That's what the people wanted. We are the strongest and our policy is best for KIM. What can we wait for you to come to your senses for a few months or a year, when we can present all the demands immediately? Clearly, radically, who is consensual - consensual, who is not - is not. We're against KIM independence. What are we gonna do if there's a self-declaration? Shall we block the border towards KIM? Shall we ban all cars, exports and imports of goods to KIM? Are we going to make such a deal with other countries in the environment that one state that does not respect the UN Charter is isolated? Will another state recognise the independence of KIM? Yes, he will, and you know who will. They're already on TV talking about it. What are you going to do? What is the measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What's the name of that measure? What does diplomacy tell you, what are the measures that a country defends its territory? If she was attacked diplomatically, diplomatically to defend her. If she was attacked with a weapon, would we allow another sprawl of the Serb population to be allowed because someone there threatens to kill Serbs? And we'll wait for the international community to defend them or not. And what if he doesn't defend them? Not to remind you of the fate of Republika Srpska, when Serbs left Krajina, there was no longer a problem for the UN. And today, Krajina should be protected by the UN. If the Serbs leave with KIM, you fight for nothing. What did you do to make Serbs, I see that representatives were invited, and I didn't know that either, let them be, let them hear, I don't know how you chose the representatives of Serbs with KIM, but it's good to hear what you did to stay on KIM? (President: Time. Is that the first or second time? (President: 20 minutes. I don't want to spoil your atmosphere. You've hired members of your own parties, all of them. There are also MPs here, a job and a post office and very nice. What about the poor girl? What about ordinary citizens? Did a man come to you with nine children whom you promised accommodations in Serbia, so accommodation on KIM, now he's nowhere to be found. How do you keep them at Kim? Promises that you will fight that Kosovo and Metohija will not be independent. You don't have to be clear, people, this is the state, this is the government, this is the president. What are you winding us up here, like a chicken in a doghouse? Tell us once, loud and clear, I asked you both in the previous resolution and in the past - what are we going to do? If it wasn't for Russia, would you be this tough? You wouldn't. Respect that Russian attitude a little bit. There are no negotiations with the EU while Russia supports us to defend KIM. There's no story about NATO if Russia is an important factor for us to defend KIM. You can't piss off Russia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4930	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, head of the DS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4931	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote without further discussion for the State Negotiation Team's report on KIM, having, above all, the fact that it is obviously from the Report - in which we count and speak the Minister and Prime Minister, and we take it as an integral part of the Report - that the negotiating team, first of all, held the mandate given to him by the National Assembly and that is enough reason for us to vote for this report. At the same time, it is evident that in all phases of the talks, an effort has been made to protect individual segments of life in Kosovo, Serbia's interest in Kosovo, at different stages of the negotiating process. The DS will vote in favour of the proposed resolution on resolving the KIM issue for several reasons. The first reason is that the mandate for a new round of negotiations is determined on the basis of international law, the Charter of the UN, the Helsinki Document, Security Council Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason the DS will vote for this resolution is because this resolution is defined by a binding mandate of the new negotiating team in a new round of negotiations. The third reason is that this resolution also sends a message to those participants, who participate in this negotiating process, on the undivided political support for the continuation of the talks, the search for a fair and sustainable solution based on international law, the principles on which the modern world rests. The fourth reason for the DS is that this resolution is needed and would give strong support to the new negotiating team in the new round of the negotiating process. For us to discuss this resolution is not a competition in patriotism. We are trying very soberly, completely coldly to think about what a possible effort can be made to improve a bad position in which Serbia is related to KIM in a process that is ahead of us. In this sense, we expect that - regardless of the political differences in ways and perhaps in detail, in whether we are satisfied, whether we are sufficiently informed or not - we all have reason together to support such a resolution and thus show that there is political unity over several key things, which is that what we insist on is respect for international law, for the non-violence of borders, for Serbia's rights to defend its interests on KIM by democratic means, in which international law and the United Nations rest. For the DS, a new round of negotiations is to some extent recognition of the democratic nature of Serbian society and the Serbian state and recognition of the existence of a democratic capacity of Serbia, and at that recognition, I think we should persist, on what will confirm this democratic capacity, which is our insistence on the European path of Serbia. Insisting on Serbia's European path is a confirmation of Serbia's democratic capacity and confirmation that, accepting European values and European standards, it has the capacity to defend its interests and solve all the problems it has in the country in a way that the world can recognise. Because of all of this, the DS really doesn't think there's any objective reason, regardless of perhaps any shortcomings in presenting to the MPs what has been the process so far, that all MPs and all MPs do not vote for this resolution. We really expect to send a clear message to those who should participate in this process. At the same time, we will give strong support to those who should lead the process on behalf of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4932	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the DSS-Nova Serbia-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4933	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister of the State, as we know, the National Assembly sets out guidelines for state policy when it comes to such important matters, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and according to the Constitution of the Serbian State, the Serbian Government is responsible for the rule of state policy. These guidelines can include something else - specific instructions when it comes to how this state policy can be implemented. One of these funds was a policy-making guideline when it came to Kosovo and Metohija, the formation of a negotiating team that, in the negotiation process, which this country had agreed to earlier, would simply try to do something on the ground. This, of course, means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for other segments of state policymaking, and when it comes to what may be done outside the negotiating team itself. As for us today, we have two documents here. One is the report of the negotiating team itself, and the other is the motion for a resolution. This means that, first of all, we should consider whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Negotiating Team, was doing what was necessary, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Assembly. That kind of guidance has been two lately. One since 21 November 2005 and the other since 14 February 2007. Let's see if there were any shifts, whether something happened in the meantime, which would contribute to respecting international law, the principle on which international law rests, which would automatically protect the interests of the Serbian state. Because, as you know, there is no conflict here, so much between the Kosovo Albanian and Belgrade negotiating teams, but obviously it is a much wider conflict here, as to whether an international legal order that was created after World War II should be overrun by the formation of a new order, which would probably be based on a chain of precedent cases and created a new chaos in Europe and a wider international community. Either the rules of the game based on which such situations would be resolved in a foreseeable or predictable way. The negotiations we can see based on this report didn't actually exist here. It is impossible to talk about the negotiations of the two negotiating sides, if one of these two negotiating parties knows all the time in advance, on the basis of the fact that individual members of the Contact Group, i.e. those countries involved in the Kosovo status process thus promise in advance one negotiating foreign outcome of these negotiations. If the outcome of the negotiations is known in advance or in advance expected by one negotiating party, in this case it is the cosmetic Albanians, it is impossible to talk about the negotiations. Whatever our negotiating team was trying to do, whatever suggestions he was making, whatever way he explained our position as essential autonomy, whatever amendments he made to Marty Ahtisaari's comprehensive plan, or Marty Ahtisaari or any other negotiating party, supported by that same biased Ahtisaari, did not have to, as we have seen, react to any of these proposals. The silence took them, went over them, like they weren't even spoken. On their side, it was enough just to sit down and wait calmly for the positive outcomes promised for them. There's no negotiation here. Who will ever convince me that there is a possibility of success, when two subjects negotiate, if someone who sets himself by their will in the position of the arbiter, not arbitration, but all the time stands convincingly on the side of one of the negotiating entities. There are no serious negotiations here. It's a key and fundamental remark. The best evidence that the Negotiating Team has done what is necessary is in this report, and even if I don't read this report, the public knows what has been done so far. The question now arises, was it, when it comes to the conduct of Serbia's state policy, which has been given guidance in this parliament, any progress? Just look at the news headlines from the end of last year, since September last year or even recently, from a month and a half ago, and have a very clear picture of what people thought six seven months ago that Serbia's territory would be trampled, crushed, separated by 15% of its territory already in June 2007, that it did not occur. If someone tells me that it's only because the two great forces have clashed over one issue that serves them for their subjugation, they can't agree. There is no reason why a large state, a great force like Russia today, does anything in this respect, unless it knows that it protects the fundamental principles of international law, which, if broken, can return as a boomerang not only to that country, but also to many other UN members. It is impossible to do so if, on the other hand, you have a clear, determined, decadent view of the Serbian state, which knows what it wants. There were no times when I was asked by people, who were foreign diplomats or my fellow foreign parliamentarians, including Russian parliamentarians, whether we were serious about protecting these principles and these interests. Because if we're serious about protecting these principles and these interests, then there's also a reason for them to be defended. And not only by Russia. The same question was asked to me by those who are members of the Council of Europe, who are members of the EU. Because, as you know, in the EU, there are no common senses on this issue. But the EU, as an organisation of states, is seeking a coherent, united position. There is, of course, a conflict. There's a conflict between those two tendencies. We, who are at risk at this point, must help others to help us with this. The only way to do that is to show unity and a firm state attitude. There is no other way and there is no other means to achieve this. What can we say about the proposed resolution? You can, of course, criticize every text that comes before us. We can say that it's not sharp enough, we can say that it's not clear enough in certain parts, that it doesn't foresee concrete measures. The other, fortunately, is very few, I can say that it is unnecessary. But our MP group, DSS and New Serbia, is convinced that this text has reached the right extent -- that it has reached the necessary balance between the guidelines given by the legislative body in this country, in accordance with the competences of the Constitution of this state, and has given that kind of open space for executive power, in accordance with the Constitution of this state, that it can take measures. Gentlemen, there's no law in front of us. We have a resolution ahead of us. This resolution will also be read very carefully from those who will actively participate in the Kosovo status process as early as tomorrow morning and its provisions will be carefully studied. What's written here, believe me, is enough to take an extremely serious warning when it comes to the dangers we've been talking about here. This resolution must be supported primarily for the reasons why it confirms our commitment to respect the basic principles of international law set out in the Charter of the United Nations, the final Helsinki Act, set out in Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which is part of the international legal order which regulates the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, explicitly confirming that it is part of Serbia, confirming sovereignty and territorial integrity and confirming what we are trying to implement from that same Charter 1244, which is to define essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija, on the other hand, are confirmed by this document and is reminded once again, at the level of the political declaration, is not the law, it is a political declaration that must be heard clearly and loudly, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and according to the Serbian Constitution, which was adopted in the referendum, which was voted by more than three and a half million people in this country. It's something that counts. Secondly, this resolution once again advocates, as the previous one did, this time unequivocally, clearly, given that Ahtisaari's plan failed, which is a very good thing, to negotiate, and that's the only way to solve the problem, continue, that they are being led as honest negotiations. And when it's said that we don't advocate a predetermined outcome, we all know what we mean here. We're thinking about what we had as a problem in the previous so-called. To the pessimism, when someone had predetermined the outcome, and that outcome promised one side. That's impossible. But that is why this same resolution speaks in what frameworks these negotiations should be conducted, according to which principles. Based on the principles of the protection of state sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, as the international legal order knows, without one exception from 1946 to today. It is pointless to talk about this, for those who advocate Kosovo and Metohija independence, that Kosovo and Metohija should not be treated as precedent if it becomes independent. The international legal order is not only built by written documents, but also by the behaviour of those who make up the international legal order, made up of the United Nations member states. If one precedent is made, no matter what they write to me and say about it, it will in reality, in real life and remain, and it will serve as a matrix for further attempts, for further cases, and that will mean the treading of that order that was defined after World War II, which was meant to end the greatest and most bloody conflict. The United Nations was practically supposed to be the final point of the international order on one of the bloodiest and most difficult conflicts mankind has ever seen, and that bloodiest and most difficult conflict humanity has ever seen, if you remember, was a war on territory. It was an interstate European and world war on territories, a war on ethnic cleansing and persecution of those who don't belong to the same people or belong to another people who don't like someone. If I have an important argument from those I hear in the international community, some of the politicians I've had the chance to talk to, that the change of state borders is no big deal, that the city of Strasbourg itself has changed the side several times, if we apply that argument in the 21st century, after the conflict behind us called World War II, if we re-introduce that argument, whatever we write in any new document that someone claims should be the basis or the strengthening of international law, then we will have, whether we want it or not, in five, ten, or 20 years of blood to the knees of Europe on all sides. Human nature hasn't changed in thousands and thousands of years. It is necessary to have a clear policy on what to do in the event of self-proclaiming independence of Kosovo, I agree with that, but I also agree that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must, as an executive body, have freed its hands with regard to the degree of measure, the way they are implemented, and it is impossible to prescribe them in detail in the Serbian Assembly as a body, but I agree that the answer must exist and this resolution gives the answer. What to do about the unilateral recognition of the so-called independence or potential self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo. A new negotiating team should certainly be formed. All this stuff that I'm talking about, it's there, it's contained in the resolution, and that's why this resolution needs to be adopted. Not every sentence of this resolution can fit everyone, but I think it contains what we're looking for here today -- the basis for state unity on this matter. The proposed resolution therefore has all the necessary attributes to protect further state interests, and when it comes to any mistrust as to the fact that this act that is being adopted today, as well as the previous acts we have discussed, may have any negative consequences for Serbia itself by adopting. I would remind you of one thing, and according to what I've said so far, that every fracture, every crack in the unity of Serbia's state attitude, those who do not wish well for this country and those who want to break the principles of international law and to take 15% of our territory, serve us exclusively an order. Any fluctuation heard in the public, and even the minority that can be heard today in this House, which we will certainly have a chance to hear, fortunately from those who represent a prominent minority of Serbian citizens, can have adverse consequences, and that must be said openly. On the other hand, whenever we lay the groundwork for our actions, guidelines for the conduct of state policy, there is often something in public that I personally consider to be a great error, whether to give priority to European integration or to the protection of state territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly for European integration. One of the DSS's priorities is to join wider alliances, especially the European Union, as one of the basics of possible easier prosperity. But we cannot be a member of the European Union, nor can we go through European integration or any other integration if the ticket or membership card for these integrations is the deprivement of 15% of the part of its territory, and not any part of the territory, but of that part of the territory which is inextricably related to the concept of Serbian statehood and the Serbian people. That's impossible. Who, for God's sake, would ever give us such a condition, he would set us an impossible condition. So he would set us a condition that this country is unable to meet. The only way to achieve full and real results for Serbia through European integration is for the state of Serbia to be integrated into broader alliances in its full integrity, constitutional and legal integrity, which is the only way, in my deep belief, that those citizens of Serbia who represent a national minority, as are Albanians in Kosovo, will be found in a new system, which will serve them, as well as other Serbian citizens, for their personal improvement and any prosperity. It's the only way we can achieve positive effects for the citizens of this country, no matter who they are, no matter what nationalities they are. Therefore, once again I call upon you, it is no shame to be unique on this matter, especially if it is known that it is absolutely and certainly defending the state's international interest not only of the Serb people, but also of all those citizens and residents of this country, their citizens, their citizens, who can have an interest in the prosperity of their own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4934	Thank you very much. Replica was requested by the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just so there is no misunderstanding, Mr Aligrudic misread or did not want to fully interpret my remarks at point 5 and point 6. The motion for a resolution. Namely, why am I asking us to define the government's steps? Because at point 5, we oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to act in the direction of achievement to require all member states of the United Nations to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and not to say how to act. Then we ask again that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all state authorities, meaning also the President of the Republic, a timely and energetic response to any hint or act of any international entity, and of course those who unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. What are we doing to the government of the Republic of Serbia? We put her in a very awkward position. What did the National Assembly want with the resolution, which it seeks, obliges the government to do something energetic, and it doesn't know what. On the other hand, there's a fear that there are war-scrapers in that government. We may have these vague definitions empowering the government to enter the war, so Macedonia recognises Kosovo and Metohija, and the government reads the resolution and says, we declare war, asks us to be the National Assembly. So I ask absolutely clear, completely clean, you have a situation, you have possible situations, there are no three or four of them, you can only predict them, and then we tell the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we ask you to do that and that; whether it is a letter, whether it is a demarch, whether it is an ambassador's withdrawal to talk to Belgrade, it must all be prescribed by the National Assembly of Serbia to the Government. We're not all actors here. We don't play those who agree with your policy. We play those who give you instructions on how to defend Kosovo and Metohija, and then, brother, let us give you clear instructions, to the end full and clear. That's all I wanted. I'm afraid the government doesn't bring us into a war that maybe someone wouldn't agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4936	Thank you. The word is from MP Susana Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President of the State, Prime Minister, the respected ministers, came in last week with news saying that a discussion on Kosovo's future status and the Metohija is being moved from the Security Council to the Contact Group. The decision was made after it became clear that even the sixth motion for a resolution could not pass in the Security Council. No matter how much this decision has been interpreted here in Serbia, either as a victory for Belgrade and Russia or a point for Pristina, one thing is for sure, the impotence of all those who offered quick and simple solutions to the extremely complex Kosovo problem is shown. Of course, the state of Serbia is not in favour of making decisions beyond the Security Council, but let's call it this, a break in the negotiation process opens the door to exactly what the state of Serbia advocates, which is a continuation of the negotiations, without the adoption of a new resolution, and based on an existing 1244, without a pre-known outcome and without a pre-determined deadline until the negotiations have to be completed. That is exactly one of the conclusions of yesterday's meeting of the EU Council of Ministers. The negotiations held from February 2006 to March 2007 were neither fair nor essential. They are not led by the intention of finding a long-term, sustainable and compromise solution, but to find a moderation for Kosovo to become an independent state, and for Serbs to gain status in an independent state of Kosovo. UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's special envoy wrote his vision of a solution to the Kosovo issue before the negotiations in Vienna began. The vision has been transformed into a pompously called A comprehensive plan to resolve Kosovo's status. Then on April 3rd, Mr Ahtisaari submitted to the Security Council that version of his solution. An atmosphere was created, in which Kosovo's independence seemed to be right around the corner and it would all be over in a few days. But 11 of the 15 Security Council members estimated that Ahtisaari's plan was not acceptable in the proposed form. Instead, a UN verification mission was sent to Kosovo and Metohija, which was intended to determine the situation on the ground and apply Resolution 1244, primarily the level of compliance with the standards. Let's remind ourselves, speaking of standards, those famous floscules -- standards before the status -- which has been repeated for years as a mantra in international circles. One of these standards was to be met before the final status decision, which is the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. Of the 250,000 non-Albanian nationalities who have been exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, 2% has not been returned in these eight years. If at this rate a return would take 200 or 300 years, which is pointless, and let alone talk about it. The violation of the human rights of the remaining non-Albanians is also overstated, as it is best witnessed by the figures on the number of killed, missing, kidnapped, known and available to anyone who really wants to be convinced that and on what grounds they are building on so-called. multiethnic Kosovo society. From the verification mission's report to this day, every attempt has failed, and there have been six of them, making a new resolution, and Mr Ahtisaari's plan is rarely mentioned by anyone, especially himself. As David Binder said, a former longtime correspondent of the "New York Times" from Belgrade, the noise and plan of Marty Ahtisaari ended up in the Hudson River right behind the UN building. That is another reason to continue negotiations between the Serbian and Albanian sides. Negotiations must end with a compromise solution. There's a compromise in politics, not defeat. The question is whether there is room for compromise between the Serbian stance "all but independence" and the Albanian attitude "nothing but independence". The space has, but compromises require new mediators, this time impartial or even those who are not on the payroll of one side of the negotiations, and who will not insist that Kosovo is a unique case, a unique case, which cannot be precedentd for any other case in the world. Such an explanation should justify the current policy towards Kosovo, in which one party -- offers everything to Albanians and the other, Serbs, only what modern international law gives to minority communities anyway and what the state of Serbia guarantees to all its national minorities. The status of Kosovo and Metohija can only be resolved through negotiations with the compromises of both sides. But in order for Albanians to be willing to compromise, the international community must openly tell them that independence is not the only option and that they cannot unilaterally declare it, even though they are eager to do so on the great holiday of the Albanian state, the day of the flag, on November 28th, as announced by Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Ceku. In the days ahead, we will see whether the international community is ready and able to respond Albanians to a unilateral declaration of independence and agree to continue negotiations with the Serbian side. The state of Serbia must continue to fight diplomatic means, to run an active and convincing defence policy of its state interests. We are witnessing that a lot has changed since the moment it passed from several fixed phrases and general places, such as "we do not give Kosovo", "we will never sign Kosovo's independence", to a genuine diplomatic offensive. It should continue on this path, because it would indeed be a unique case for an old European state, such as Serbia, to take not only territory, but for the sake of Albania's desire for independence to violate all important norms and principles of international law. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4938	Thank you very much. The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, head of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4939	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as I said at the beginning of my report to the Rules of Procedure, I think today's session will be completely missed unless we look at the objective and realistic situation in which Serbia is today and if we do not stop looking back, as we did sometimes at the beginning of this session. That is why we can choose between two approaches: whether to turn our debate on Kosovo and Metohija into mutual accusations of who is more responsible for the situation in Kosovo and Metohija or if we will have a debate on what Serbia will take today to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Because those are the attitudes that you've all stood behind, except for the rare exceptions, which I couldn't say were honorable because if they were honorable on this matter, they probably wouldn't be exceptions. In any case, we have a very clear approach to this issue and if we go back, we could accuse each other of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija over the past few decades, centuries, etc. So today when we talk about who is responsible for what is in Kosovo and Metohija, we need to understand that, basically, Albanian politics in Kosovo and Metohija is not a relationship to Serbian political parties, it is not a relationship to one or another political leader in Belgrade, but rather a push for Kosovo and Metohija independence, separatism in Kosovo and Metohija. If some parties asked for this session just to attack each other again, then the session was completely missed. I don't know if you ladies and gentlemen and fellow MPs and senior state officials are aware of what Serbian citizens are currently expecting from the state leadership that they voted for in the elections. They expect a responsible relationship with this issue, they expect us not to tell the people about the past, but to point out what will happen tomorrow, and tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, is a meeting of the Contact Group in Vienna. Tomorrow we start this new process we're talking about here. That is why the SPS will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. There is no motion for a resolution or any act that states that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, which the SPS will not vote for, no matter what we think about those who possibly propose it, whether we do power or opposition. This is not a matter of government or opposition, this is a matter of relations to the state and to its people. That is why we should beware of each other's accusations, because Albanian policies are unique in this matter, and Serbian politics is only about accusing each other of who is more to blame. Today, I hope that when Mr Tadic spoke of this, he mentioned the policy of violence at the time of the government of Slaboodan Milosevic as an alibi of an international community, not as his opinion. Because there is indeed such an attitude in the international community that what applies to the time when Slobodan Milosevic was in power is defined as violence, genocide and everything else. Besides, that's why there's a Hague court. The Hague court has yet to reach any verdict on this matter. The state of Serbia has defended its territorial integrity and sovereignty and has never been concerned with any democratic issue in Kosovo and Metohija. In order to respond to your state leadership, one part of Serbia's state territory today, as announced by Riza Halimi, for example, don't God, join the requests for secession from the state of Serbia. I don't think that would be a political or democratic issue. I'm also sure that no one has ever done more harm to us than we have done to ourselves with these very statements that we are sometimes witnesses to. Serbia has a state and national interest in keeping Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia. Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija have their own interest in making Kosovo, as they call it, independent. What are international conditions and international circumstances to fight either us or those for their interests and their rights. That's the topic we're talking about today. To talk about it, it's not good to accuse each other, because we actually spit on ourselves. And that's why he's talking about some kind of terror or I don't know what terms to use about the past regime or the past, anyway, it's absolutely counterproductive in a story like this. Based on the problems in Kosovo and Metohija, separatism and terrorism, support for a number of countries in the international community is basically open to creating another independent Albanian state in Europe alongside the Republic of Albania. In order to have a strong position of state in this situation, it is necessary to have political unity in this. You wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. You are today in favour of a consistent respect for UN Security Council Resolution 1244. I don't mean to be indignant, but I would remind each of you how you evaluated that Resolution 1244, from being a capitulation, treason, maybe to some who turned it into a victory. It was a real situation when Serbia was exposed to bombings. I would be pleased to see our national negotiating team as a result of what it is fighting for today be the views of Resolution 1244. But this document also advocates a consistent respect for Resolution 1244. Of course, we are in favour of continuing negotiations, of course we are for essential autonomy, as stated in Resolution 1244, we are for non-conditional negotiations, without a solution imposed. What are you for, then? Then you're against Rambuje, because what's happening now is the continuation of what started in Rambuje. If our state had then accepted what was required of it, after three years a referendum would have been called on both Kosovo and Metohija today would not have been part of the Republic of Serbia. But then some of you criticized why Serbia refused Rambouje because you were an opposition. Our position must not depend here on whether we are in power or in opposition, but whether we are for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia or not. Every other position is wrong, every other position leads us into politics that we hate those in power more, we hate so much that we even started to harm national and state interests. Today I say on behalf of the SPS, we are against a lot of what you are doing, but if you want to defend Kosovo and Metohija you will have allies in us and we will vote for it, because it is not a party issue, it is a state and a national issue. Because if we have nothing to discuss tomorrow, if we don't have Kosovo and Metohija, if we don't have Serbia, and we don't have it without Kosovo and Metohija, then I'm sure there won't be any SPS, or DS, or any other party in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, a unilateral confession, that's the reality we can face. So it's very good to be clear and unique about what you want. Don't let the government fall apart tomorrow because all parties in the government aren't unique about it. So, the Serbian government must know how it will react further, because in its hands there is a further flow and reaction to the possible outcome of the negotiations, as the government will react. Whether the government will fall, whether some parties will get out of the government, especially when what Mr Aligrudic was saying earlier is that a question of European integration is being asked if Europe unilaterally recognises Kosovo and Metohija. G17 plus got out of the government because you didn't arrest Mladic last time. Here's how many months it's been, but I don't know how many more lufts you give them. It would be remarkable and no one could say that it was not agreed that in response to the possible relationship between the Serbian government and those who unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija would actually be the fall of the Serbian government. Serbia is again in a situation where there are no state authorities, in conditions where it should decide on important state and national issues. That is why it is important, when we leave it to the Serbian government to make these decisions, to know whether the Serbian government has a unique position or whether it will be discussed. When I say that, I think of the measures announced against those states that would unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The range of these measures is, as far as we're concerned, from diplomatic note to diplomatic termination. Maybe it's easier for you to say it than for us to say it. We don't have to talk about it at all, so it doesn't look like it's some echo from the past. You see, from what you're talking about, because the resolution clearly states that Serbia will have a decisive position, that Serbia should respond in a timely and energetic manner to any hint or act of any international entity that would be directed at unilateral acts of violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity. When one of us used to say that, of course, it came across a salva condemnation, even by those who say it all. If it's better if you say it, not us, we won't talk about it anymore. Do you really think what he's writing right now or is this just because it wouldn't be politically opportunized to write differently in conditions where maybe someone's expecting some kind of election? In any case, the machinery for quick and unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija independence has been briefly stopped. It is very important that the Serbian government and the National Assembly have a single opinion on this. Since Mr. Halimi, I think he has answered the replica, when he is answering, I want to hear the following question: how is it possible that any citizen of Serbia, including the MP of the Republic of Serbia, including a member of the Albanian national minority, has the right to say in an interview with certain newspapers that in certain conditions they will seek the accession of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje to future independent Kosovo and Metohija? Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have the right to say everything. You are entitled to this speaker because you are protected by the Constitution, but there are also certain obligations for members of the political parties of the national minorities. There's an obligation to respect the state you live in. You can speak Albanian in this assembly, and I'm not sure that there is any Serbian in Tirana that could speak Albanian at all, because they are gone. That doesn't mean you shouldn't have rights. You should have all the rights, but you can't build a state unity that anyone who arrives, in the name of his political interest, violates the number one principle of every country, which is the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country. You can be the radical, the socialist, the Democrats, the deessovian, the chastity, the liberal, what you want to be, but you have to be a citizen of this country and respect the rules and the Constitution of this country. There is no country that would suffer what you say here. That is why, since you are an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are openly voting to accept Ahtisaari's plan, which advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You have no consequence because you're an MP and you shouldn't have them, but you have no right to stand open in public appearances to destroy and tear this country apart. I call on the state authorities to take this into account, because this is also an example for Vojvodina, for the Raska region and for any other one that will come on the agenda. Also, I want to be perfectly precise and clear – will Ahtisaari also apply his plan to problems in its countries, in EU countries, in Finland, will he perhaps apply the plan for Catalonia, Baska, Korzik, to Pristrovlje, will he perhaps apply the plan to Kurds in Turkey, since the Turks were in charge of the Council of Europe to accept Kosovo's independence and Metohija? Will he perhaps apply his plan to Albanians in Macedonia? Will he possibly apply his plan for Serbs in Republika Srpska or Serbs in Montenegro? Today you have a statement by Miodrag Vukovic, which says that the citizens of Montenegro can only have one citizenship. It is a response to the announcement that some citizens of Montenegro could have dual citizenship. First of all, that's where I think of Serbs. We now need to be content and content. The Deputy Prime Minister was in Montenegro. After all, so much heroism between Montenegrins and the Montenegrin people, should we now be overjoyed that Montenegro will be restrained by the independence of Kosovo and Metohija? And that's not what you're reacting to? And that the Deputy Prime Minister does not meet with representatives of Serbs in Montenegro. He is Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and has representatives of his people in Montenegro. So, I think that Serbia should have a very strong relationship. Toma Nikolic said the government may be going to war with Macedonia, said it fears that the government could, in its capacity to interpret this great and broadly, to war with Macedonia. Anyway, I'm afraid there are a lot of countries with which we're going to have to seriously search our relationship, precisely because it's impossible for someone on the one hand to be your friend, and on the other hand to advocate the secession of one part of your territory. Besides, that's how every country in the world would react if it were their territory. In any case, I am glad that certain ministers and senior officials are no longer ashamed to say that Kosovo and Metohija should be defended and that they are no longer ashamed and that they do not consider part of the past very strongly to respond to unilateral acts of violations of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this state. We should now, the next logic of the opposition and the authorities, be against what you say, because you are in power. But from whether you are ministers, it is much more important whether the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved in a way to find an agreement between Serbian citizens living in that part of the autonomous province. Also, when it comes to friends, you know that Serbia currently does not have many allies on the international stage. The Contact Group, meeting tomorrow, is made up of the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Russia. (President: Time. () Which of these countries do you think will defend Serbia's interests? What do you think and do you remember what you said about that country when you came to power in 2000 and how underestimatingly you talked about it, even at that session when it was the topic of choosing the president of this National Assembly? You must understand that Russia is not defending Serbia because it loves it, not only because we are friends, but because it protects international law and international legal order. But let's not talk about who's on our side underestimatingly, especially when others, who have helped some to make political careers, are in completely opposite positions today. In the end, I want to thank the Serbs who have stayed to live on KIM and who are here, who are watching our meeting. We can talk about KIM as much as you want, but today those who are most difficult are just Serbs at KIM. They defend our national and state interests and Serbia is obliged to help them make everyday life more acceptable, not to be citizens of the second order. As long as they're on KIM, that's where Serbia is. When they are gone, we will no longer be able to talk about Serbian national and state interests. They stayed, though it might have been easier for them to escape. That's why Serbia cannot run away with KIM. The state authorities of Serbia need to see KIM as a full part of the Republic of Serbia, and I would also like to call on the resolution ministry to solve all the problems Serbs have in KIM, and to call on all of us here once again, by voting for the motion for a resolution, we do not support any political party, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we support efforts to make Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4940	Thank you. The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the LDP parliamentary club. Here, replica, MP Riza Halimi, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4941	Ladies and gentlemen, if there were opportunities, I would probably speak in Albanian, as Serbian MPs spoke in the Serbian parliament when they participated. In the first session, ma'am, if you remember, they spoke in Serbian, and the minister of return to Kosovo, Serbian nationality, you well know, in direct contact with the Pinka show, our minister confirmed that his ministry has a multiple amount of funds than the minorities here have. That's the facts. As for the brief statement, which probably concerned my discussions at the previous session of the Assembly that we held on February 14th, and regarding Ahtisaari's document and package, is that even then, and after that I continue to claim that it was a good compromise, a better document has not yet been offered, that finally very remote positions are approaching. I'd like this document that the government is now offering, I mean the resolution, to be close to that package or that document. But unfortunately, what in the resolution was offered to us. What Ivica is right now saying is there is no difference between both the discussion and the documents, which the public could hear in this or the National Assembly, when making a proposal for a referendum that rejected international assistance in resolving the Kosovo issue in 98. I've got our MP's paper here that's when he read it. To know that it can be seen that there is no difference. Same target, same distance, same logic. There's no movement. We've been looking all this time to solve the Kosovo knot. We agree that this problem is not from these days, that it draws roots from the distant past, but if Albanians and Serbs could not solve the problem on their own, where common sense is. (President: Time. ) And in personal problems, people ask for third aid, and we refuse international assistance. And on this occasion, we threaten the international community. Where does that make sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4942	Thank you. Mr. Halimi, just to let you know that, under Article 231, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly shall, for each meeting, be required to submit a request in order to allow MPs to speak in the languages of the national communities, which shall enable them to do so. It is important to say because the multinational character of this state is also very important for the leadership of this congregation. So if you had applied for a session of parliament to be allowed to speak in Albanian and to translate it for all other MPs, it would have been possible for you. Next time, file a request, it's no problem. As you know, you applied for one of the sessions, and then it was made possible for all the MPs to listen to the translation of what you say in your language. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4943	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of the session, I will not have any controversy about these issues. It is not at all questionable any right of a national minority. To me, it's just a question of how anyone, whether or not he's an MP, that's the answer to the question I'm asking, can say in interviews that he's going to advocate seceding part of our territory. That's impossible. Anything else is possible to speak in Albanian, to form parties, to have all the rights, to have your schools and colleges, and everything, but you cannot advocate the secession of the work of our territory. That's why I mentioned your name. But I don't want to discuss it any further because this is a session that doesn't need to be turned into other gloves. I have already said that this issue is far above party charms and party interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4944	Thank you very much. The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the LDP parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4945	Mr. President of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, President Tadic, Mr. Kostunica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try on behalf of our parliamentary group, and then, if you allow me to, and on your behalf, I will try to return the policy to this debate, because it seems to me that in the last hour, hour and a half, they have marked the most boring discussions since the constitution of this Parliament, which is devastating, given the subject we are talking about. The prepared reports, phrases, have disrupted the beginning of today's session. In front of MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia is the President of the Republic, there is the current prime minister, there are parliamentary parties of Serbia, and we must offer political answers to the issues raised during this debate, to issues that have been raised beyond our will. So, first of all, the State Negotiation Team Report. We didn't get it in time. In line with the daily interests of both the ruling and the opposition parties, they raised the issue of the debate on the state negotiating team's report when it was appropriate for them. We're the only party who's insisted on it since the first moment. Today, the debate on the state negotiating team's report is much more agreeable with the historical archives than with the Serbian parliament. That's why I don't want to analyze the individual facts and arguments. But I am interested, Mr Samardzic, in what happened to the concept of the entity, which was mentioned in one of the dialogues that was conducted during that week of the Vienna negotiations. This is very important for the LDP, because it is one of the principles on which we are building our political platform to solve the Kosovo crisis. I don't think this is the time in which we should assess the positive and negative consequences of the decision of the acting Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, not to speak to Martti Ahtisaari in Belgrade, and then to discuss with him our negotiating team in Vienna. But I would warn you of the consequences of the statements that you, Mr. Kostunica, made here in your speech. If all of this is, in fact, the end of the Ahtisaari era, I must remind you that this era did not begin with Ahtisaari's proposal for a solution to the Kosovo crisis, but that Ahtisaari's era began in 99, an agreement that the then state of Serbia accepted, on the proposal of the same Ahtisaari. This proposal has resulted in the resolution we are today calling on, Resolution 1244. That is why your statement is careless and it also endangers the basics of the policy on which you are building the proposal for this resolution. I'd like to focus on that policy right now. There are two clear policies for Kosovo and Metohija in this parliament. One is the policy of the SRS and it is in the resolution of the party that parliament has not discussed. The second is the LDP resolution. She's also committed to parliament. Both documents provide very clear answers to all those questions that the government has bypassed, not to define, but to articulate through initiatives that it would take in the event of their opening. That's why we're going to the resolution that's ahead of us. Point one: "Any attempt at a solution that would violate these basic principles would be declared null and dangerous by the survival of the Serbian state and would be a cause for the proper functioning of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with international law. ''The President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister Samardzic, foreign ministers, why do we, as MPs of the Serbian Parliament, have no right to have an answer to the question - what is meant by'responsible action'? If this isn't the time to tell us, I won't agree, but that's the answer to our question. But I ask you to give us an answer to the question why we were denied for the definition of "the relevant functioning of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international law". Point two: "The Republic of Serbia is ready to launch a new phase of negotiations. '"New negotiations with old attitudes. What is the fate of such negotiations? Why didn't we bring anything quality new into this initiative? Clearly, there's a willingness for something like that. A statement by the President of the Republic, which I, for example, quoted by the head of the SRS parliamentary group, see in such a way as the willingness of the President of the Republic to make certain changes in the current state policy. But it's pointless to start a new phase of negotiations with the old, identical attitudes that led us to the blockade we're in. Third point of Resolution: ''Unlike the unsuccessful negotiations conducted by Martti Ahtisaari, the new negotiations must be open to outcomes and duration, with respect to basic principles and international law standards. "The crisis in Kosovo culminates, the only Serb community in Kosovo is not responding to prolonging, stalling, because uncertainty is a source of instability, and the Serb community in Kosovo will pay the price of and instability and uncertainty to which it is exposed. That's what we want to talk about. Then let our political competition measure our honor. But today we need to talk about it, not when it's too late. Every conversation about "Storm", about "Blash", about 99th in 2007 is pointless. But it is not pointless to discuss the consequences that will be followed by ineffectiveness, incompetence, the unwillingness to take over a policy that will take place in the face of events. Point four: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia believes the new Security Council resolution on Kosovo should be adopted only after the negotiations have been concluded, which would establish a compromise solution to the province's future status. The new negotiations can only be conducted within the framework of the existing UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and on the basis of a clear mandate for the UN. ''If this is the end of the Ahtisaari era, then so is Resolution 1244, because it stems from a document created by Martti Ahtisaari in 99. That's why it's an unwary statement, Mr. Kostunica. What does "un's clear mandate" mean when we at the same time dictate the rules of conduct to the UN Security Council? What we asked for from Mr Samardzic, we did not get -- the very clearly expressed willingness of the Republic of Serbia to respect every decision of the Security Council and the UN, not just those decisions Serbia likes. Good relying on international law and this international law has always been important to us, but as a state, we have selectively respected international law and put ourselves in a position to have an identical approach to the international community towards us. On the basis of which head of the UN Charter is this right of the international community being built? On chapter seven, and we certainly know that this is the case, and that requires true and clear policy. Point five, we demand from all UN member states, we demand from the Secretary-General, it is not a good language. For the last time, such a dictionary was used during the year 99. With the consequences, we can't handle today. I don't think your wish was, Mr Samardzic, or the government's wish for Serbia to be exposed to the consequences it was exposed to in 99, quite the contrary. But that's why we appeal to you - change the dictionary. Change the language, we irritated part of the international community. As much sympathy as there is in the other part, we've irritated one part. No Serbs in Kosovo will benefit from such a dictionary, no Albanians in Kosovo, no citizens and citizens of Serbia. Point six: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia believes a unilateral recognition of Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence would have unconceived consequences for regional stability. '"We agree with you. But let's avoid this unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence by defining clear frameworks, and time frames, in which together we would seek an acceptable solution for both sides. What's the problem? "The Government of the Republic of Serbia and all state authorities undertake to give timely and energetic answers to any hint or act of any international entity that would be directed at unilateral acts of violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. '"Mr. Nikolic asked that question, so did we. Why are we denied the definition of that answer? The absence of clarity on this issue opens wide space for different interpretations. We, for example, interpret it as your willingness to leave the door open to the international community. Someone will interpret it as your announcement of a final breakup of any normal relationship with the international community. That's why it takes clarity. What would make this resolution a better quality message to the world -- whatever you're doing to us, we will never agree to a policy that will ultimately end in a catastrophic consequence of our society, or the isolation that we've been exposed to in the 1990s. Law and justice are not good arguments at this point. I'll tell you why. Because neither the right nor the justice are respected in those stages of Kosovo's life that brought the Kosovo community into such a traumatic position it was in during the 1990s and that it is finally in today. By changing the positions of Serbs and Albanians in the meantime, the victims turned Albanians today into sovereigns in Kosovo, and from the position of the sovereign Serb people into the status of a ghettoised community. But neither law nor justice can be those substantiations and phrases on which we will build our own policy. We particularly condemn the abuse of a strong and pronounced sense of injustice in our society when it comes to the international community's attitude towards Kosovo. If there was no justice and justice, in Kosovo, in Serbia and in this region has always been in the abundance of both injustice and lawlessness, and that is why, on these grounds, politics cannot be built on these foundations. If the world was not fair to Serbia at certain times and if it is not today, in the government's view, then we must be the ones to show what we mean by fair relations. Well, to say it is not fair to expect the world to agree to the status quo, that it is not fair to expect someone in the international community to have the interest of groping in a place because someone here has no courage to say that today's situation in Kosovo is the result of a policy that has its continuity and in some ways the government insists on in its resolution. We are very concerned about the issue of responsibility, not because we want to fight with the spirits of the past, but because by defining this responsibility we are finally establishing in Serbian politics those principles that exist in the everyday life of citizens and citizens of this country. Only politics in Serbia is a profession in which responsibility is not a question someone has to answer. Irresponsibility in politics is not sanctioned. Health is sanctioned, health care is sanctioned, justice is sanctioned, the university is sanctioned, customs sanctioned, in every segment of life sanctioned, only in politics is not sanctioned. So let's go back to this resolution, and let's say what this government means under fundamental autonomy. From you, Mr. Samardzic, we have received the answer that this has been explained so many times in the press. You know we have good analytical services. We found a lot of arguments for our policy, but no fact that would be acceptable for us to explain essential autonomy. We interpret it as a description of the current state. More than autonomy, less than independence is the actual situation in Kosovo. It is unsatisfactory for both the Serbian and Albanian communities. Let's take a step further, and imagine a situation where the Albanian community would accept the political principles on which we are building the position and status of Kosovo within the Serbian state. What would this Serbian state be like? With a country in the country. We like to ask Albanians to agree to their country, provided they don't call it that and never tell the truth, which is obvious to everyone. We wanted to admit it or not, the principles that Prime Minister Kostunica spoke of, citing the basics of the Contact Group talks, so these principles are something that ignores this resolution. What did the Contact Group say? No going back to the old one, no joining another state and no dividing Kosovo. That's why I asked you, Mr. Samardzic, why you bypassed the concept of the entity in your assembly performance. And I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who here before us, since neither the President of the Republic nor the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of Kosovo have mentioned in any sentence your upcoming visit with the United States, whether the platform with which you are going is a secret or a second-rate topic that Parliament does not need to discuss at all. This is also an important issue for us, because we think nothing good will come from the complicated relations between Serbia and the United States. Let's see what's next. What is the essence of this resolution, in our opinion? Further prolonging, avoiding responsibility, dividing society into patriots and traitors? We are already in the phase of Kosovo's color. You know who Murat is, I don't think there's any dilemma about Vuk Brankovic, only I don't know if you've made a deal about who Lazar is, who's going to be Obilic, who's going to be the Kosovo girl. But that's not what our kids need, and we need to talk about it. Our children need the safety we didn't have. I believe that your political intentions are sincere and I don't want to doubt at all your desire to make Serbia a happy and peaceful state, but the way you do it is wrong. What is it we want to get into this resolution? We want the Serbian parliament's resolution to clearly say it will respect any Security Council decision. In this way, we define a different position for Serbia within the framework and, for us, crucial international organisations, the United Nations. We want to connect, and the government is just avoiding it, achieving full capacity for Kosovo's final status with full capacity for Serbia's membership in the European Union. If the international community cares about a final solution to Kosovo as soon as possible, then we too must explain that Serbia's full membership in the European Union is the only guarantee and amortizer of these unstable processes that will monitor the establishment of Kosovo's final status. Whether we want fast membership in the Union – yes, we want, and there is parallelism in our intentions. Let's say that the cheapest is the political message that we receive from Brussels, when they say we should not identify Kosovo's fate and the fate of Serbia's European integration. What country has become a member of the European Union without being defined as a country? If for the next 500 years we are suffocating our epic on Kosovo, we will wait exactly for so many years for full membership in the European Union, because through the process of resolving the Kosovo crisis, we have been confronting the European Union and the United States. The attitude towards Russia; I don't think that this relationship is sincere and that Russia's political attitude is often being abused, and that's not good. We can understand the principled position in the foreign policy of the Russian Federation, but on the one hand, the European Union, along with the United States, has initiated six resolutions, looking for something that is acceptable to the Serbian side. On the other hand, there was no initiative that would allow us to say more than daily what representatives of the Russian Federation say, that their position is balanced and that they make no difference in the accession of Kosovo Albanians and Serbia at all. They simply stress a clear message at any moment – only the solution agreed on by the two sides is acceptable to us. Since we want new negotiations with the old model, it is clear that this solution and consent will not be in the foreseeable future. That is why the Security Council negotiations, where different decision-making mechanisms, have been moved to the Contact Group. As in 99, the Security Council did not say "yes" to Serbia, but did it to whoever was able to do it, and no one else could stop it, with this kind of policy, we will quickly put our society in a position to regret the Ahtisaari document, as we today regret the 91st chance, when we refused the peaceful passage of Yugoslavia for membership in the European Union, as Serbs in Bosnia today mourn the Vens-Oven plan, as we regret the Z-4 plan, as we call for the retroactive application of Rambuje today, and that is what is devastating. It takes more courage. We did not come here to accuse the ministers of Kostunica's government, the president of the Republic, the opposition to the state of Serbia, but we are asking you for answers and a willingness to change this situation, not to maintain it in the existing constitution. You have complete support for change in us. As incredible as that may seem, Mr Kostunica, whatever you say about you and whatever you do to us, in terms of Kosovo, in terms of European integration, in terms of co-operation with the UN tribunal, at any time your government makes political turns, you will have the support of the LDP. But you will also have a strong resistance, regardless of the labels you stick to us, in your intention to practically bring Serbia into a position in which, apart from politicians in Serbia, everyone will be responsible for the state of Serbian society. Serbs in Kosovo should not be victims of Serbian politics, such as Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although it is very difficult to measure the height of their victims, because they are devastating and I would not want to do so. Thank you and we are ready to cooperate with you, but this resolution is an even worse resolution than that of February, and with a great commitment to Serbia we will vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4946	Thank you very much. The word has been made by MP Pastor Balint, head of the parliamentary club Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the List for Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4947	Dear President-in-Office of the Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will take the opportunity to state the position of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians on the proposed text of the resolution, but before I speak about the proposed text of the resolution, I would like to say that we consider the beginning of good practice that Mr Samardzic, it seems to me, on July 13th, came to the National Assembly and held talks with parliamentary groups. This is what we consider to be the beginning of a good practice, and since most of the ministers and prime ministers are now there, I hope that this will happen in the future for the other ministers and for the other very important points of the agenda in the future work of the National Assembly. That's how it's supposed to be. Now I would like to speak a few sentences about the concrete text of the motion for a resolution. We certainly welcome the government's wish to start new negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, the position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has remained unchanged since February 14th. At that time, we said that SVM could only be to start new negotiations and find solutions through negotiations, after which no party would feel defeated and completely defeated. We also welcome the government's involvement in the compromise of Kosovo and Metohija's future status, which would be achieved through negotiations. That's what it says in point 4. We certainly support that, and we supported it in February this year. Regardless of these facts, we will still be restrained today, just as we were abstaining on February 14th. We cannot accept this concrete text of the proposal on Kosovo and Metohija for two reasons, and I will now briefly state what these two reasons are. For the first reason, we believe that the proposed text of the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. certain parts of this concrete proposal for the text on Kosovo and Metohija, is not in agreement with the modern dictionary of diplomacy. This would be an example of point 5, which would require the National Assembly from the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the request from individual members of the United Nations, not only do I believe that the Republic of Serbia can ask for something, but it cannot ask for anything from the United Nations and any member of the United Nations, because it is not in line with the dictionary of modern diplomacy, according to the position of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. But in addition to this, there is an even more important reason why we cannot support this concrete proposal of the text of the resolution, which is because we believe that point 6, or second sentence, is to be precise, vague, vague, and therefore dangerous, because it gives the possibility of any interpretation. Like, what does a formulation mean, a hint of an international subject? What does the term "timeless" mean? What does "energizing" mean? These formulations give the government great authority or freedom, which, according to our belief, are outside the constitutional and legal system. It must be said precisely what it means energetically and what actions should be done in an energyy and timely manner by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other state bodies. So the SVM can't accept, which is absolutely against any armed conflict or military use, and it also opposes breaking diplomatic relations with any country in the world. We asked Mr Samardzic on July 13th whether these formulations of "mild and energetic" meant war eventually or breaking diplomatic relations with a particular state, and we did not get unequivocal answers to these questions. The Union of Duchy Hungarians has been insisting since its founding on a peaceful settlement of all misunderstandings and conflicts, political means, through dialogue and respect for the interests of both the majority and minorities in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Samardzic said on July 14th, I will quote that statement, that statement was transmitted by Beta, TANJUG and almost all the printed and electronic media in the Republic of Serbia, as far as I can see, there is no chance that 100 per cent of the MPs would be declared to, although we also gave the opportunity to comment on those who essentially disagree with the text. That's right. But further says Mr Samardzic: these remarks will give us the most serious attention, but even if after that they do not want everyone to vote for Resolution then they have a serious problem with the country they live in. That, Mr. Samardzic, is an insult and a question of constitutional law relating to freedom of mind, according to our deep conviction. I must say that the duchy Hungarians and the Union of Duke Hungarians have no serious, and there is no unserious problem with the state, never had. We have a serious problem with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this current government, and the previous governments, and we will have problems with all governments that do not take into account that one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia are national minorities. We have a problem with the current government because this current government has yet to say anything about what it wants to do in the interest of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government has yet to say anything about what it wants to do to gain financial autonomy from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in order to pass property laws and revenues of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which is otherwise the obligation of the Republic of Serbia and according to the Constitutional Law. This government didn't say anything they wanted to do to get local self-government back their property. We are the only country in Europe where local self-government has no property. These are three reasons why we have really serious problems with the current government, but we have no problems with the Republic of Serbia, nor will we have problems with the Republic of Serbia. In the 21st century, I don't think it's necessary to identify the government and the state. Those times are over. It is good that the government has seen that the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija has legitimate interests. That's what the second point of this resolution says. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians believes that the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija has its legitimate interests. I must say that also legitimate interests, which, of course, do not manifest a desire for secession or secession, but also have legitimate interests of Bosniaks, and Bulgarians, and Bunjevci, and Hungarians, and Croats and other national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that these legitimate interests should also be taken into account by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In February, we said that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians in no way considers the withdrawal of any parlalala between the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija and the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina justified. But in February we said, and I want to repeat now, that if any positive new solutions are found regarding the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, then we believe that these new solutions should also be applied to other parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Some minorities from the territory of the Republic of Serbia cannot be in a position of privilege compared to some other minorities who also live in this territory and have legitimate interests. In the end, I would like to say that it is extremely good that the state has been making exceptional diplomatic efforts for years to preserve territorial integrity and that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians absolutely supports it. But I'd like to say that it's not good that this topic is the only one that's been paying enough attention to for years. I appeal to the government to also commit vigorously and unwaveringly to attracting investment, creating new jobs, improving the social security of all citizens across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the context of this, I must say that it is very good that it is formulated in the motion for a resolution that the government will regularly report to the Assembly on what it has achieved on the issues of Kosovo and Metohija, but the SVM would also like the government to report to the National Assembly and on what it has done in bringing investment, creating new jobs and improving the social security of all citizens across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4948	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Canak, head of the Social Democratic League of the League of the Duchy of Vojvodina-SVM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4949	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when I was preparing for what I am about to say, spoke with the legend of the Serbian political scene, Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, told me this is the ninth time to attend the adoption of a resolution on Kosovo. In a joke, I said he was in 1912 for the first time, but it was a joke. Mr. Micunovic here apostrophe of a very important matter, which is how many times resolutions will be passed after which nothing will change, when we know that we have already witnessed twice the adoption of the constitutions that have been passed because of allegedly keeping Kosovo in Serbia. Kosovo does not retain its constitution in Serbia but rather some other activities, as the constitution, which was adopted in 1990, did not change much in Kosovo, but has changed much in Vojvodina and has changed the most in Serbia itself. The same thing happened with the Constitution adopted in 2006. That's exactly why I took and searched all the documents that are being talked about here. For example, Resolution 1244, which the government advocates should not be changed, and I will remind, in that Resolution 1244, the subject of international law is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the SRJ. So, not Serbia. Passports with which the negotiating team travels are false, as they are written by the SRJ, and not written by the Republic of Serbia. And this virtual life in some state that it doesn't have to keep relations that don't exist is what characterizes the current social political moment in Serbia. That is, of course, the most to blame by Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I'll tell you why right away. When we take a closer look at what is offered in this resolution, then we get that in Resolution 1244 we guarantee the territorial integrity of the SRJ, but also the territorial integrity of all countries in the region. Dr Vojislav Kostunica said in Mali Zvornik that Republika Srpska was only temporarily separated from the queen, right? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: That's what he said in Velika. Here's a witness who said that in the Great. So, if that's the case and if it's not a violation of Resolution 1244, then I don't know what's a violation of Resolution 1244. We have an SRS here, which has repeatedly said that Republika Srpska is only currently out of Serbia, and in the perspective it must certainly be in the alliance, and of course the Republika Srpska Krajina. Am I right? Since that is the case, it is an attack on the territorial integrity of two neighbouring states and a double-resolution of Resolution 1244, for which survival is reportedly being held here by alleged patriots. So we have a system of double standards and therefore there is no way to defend something with such resolutions and such an alleged struggle for Kosovo. Be careful how to protect Serbs in Kosovo from the apparent genocide, which seems to be over them, when here in this assembly are two parties whose presidents are convicted of the most serious crimes against humanity? (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Who is condemned? I said accused. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You are an idiot. I'm sorry, the defendant. Did you tell me that, idiot? You, sir, are a fool.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4950	Mr. Canak, please don't speak to the MPs the way you did. Because of that word, I give you a warning, but I also give you a warning to the MP who told you you were an idiot? (Nenad Canak: There is an undivided opinion of the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you very much. The head of the parliamentary club, Tomislav Nikolic, took notice of himself. Thank you very much. We're moving on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4951	Dr Vojislav Kostunica is the man responsible for signing the CEFTA contract, which is more so said by Dr Vladan Batic, which is why Serbia recognised Kosovo as an independent state, since it is an international contract. It is the first act that Serbia has denied Kosovo and should therefore, according to this resolution, renounce co-operation with itself. That could do, say, by resigning the government and thus proving that it honestly thinks that anyone who confirms Kosovo's independence interrupts relations, vigorously, dramatically, or whatever they say here. I'd tell you one more thing, I wouldn't hold you back anymore. The status offered to Kosovo, which no one knows what it is, I had the opportunity to read in English, was not translated into Serbian, so a group of Vojvodina MPs did. Do you know what is offered to Kosovo? Essential autonomy is offered, which reads: "Kosovo will have legislative, executive and judicial authority, which will enable the province to manage fully, except in areas that will be explicitly numbered, in which Serbia will retain control. These are foreign policy, defence, but with the full demilitarisation of the province, with only international military presence, border control, customs, protection of Serbian cultural and religious heritage and in the last legal instance protection of human rights." Everything else will be in Kosovo's jurisdiction. Kosovo will have a fully independent approach to international financial institutions. You know what this is, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Vladan Batic can say more about it. This is the 1974 Constitution against which people who now form part of the government, led by Dr Vojislav Kostunica, fought against it most strongly, because it is the breaking of Serbia. So what is this, ladies and gentlemen, if not to break Serbia for a simple reason: this resolution is not to keep Kosovo in Serbia but to keep the regime's oligarchy in power. Don't forget, according to the World Health Organization reports, there are 60% of the population under 30 in Kosovo. Kosovo is the youngest community in Europe. The state of Serbia is, after Japan, the oldest country on average, the world's population. So if Serbia is the oldest in Europe and Kosovo is the youngest in Europe, you mean what is our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4952	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4953	Mr. Chairman, I told Nenad Chanko that he was an idiot, which he told me I was crazy about. I may be crazy, but you, Mr. Canak, seem confused, and between mad and confused you know what's going on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4954	Break 10 minutes. [[After break – 19.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. Before I give my word to MP Srdjan Sajn, MP Vladan Batic called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4956	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I think Mr. Nenad Canak misunderstood me. I was talking about responsibility, and when it comes to Kosovo, then the greatest responsibility is to those who decide on behalf of Serbia on the fate of KIM, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? The whole policy is a one-card game policy on Russia's map. Experiences in the past do not give rise to the right to succeed. We've seen it. We remember archival RTS footage of the Russian fleet leaving the Black Sea to prevent NATO intervention, perhaps still traveling. The great powers worry, first of all, about their interests. I remind you that Kiev was once the capital of Tsar Russia, now the capital of another sovereign country. Therefore, everyone cares about their interests. I've already said that if that map results, then it's for respect, for every praise, for all the glory. But if not, then there is a question of responsibility and then there is no value in the stories that Kosovo will forever be ours in memories, thoughts, souls and hearts. These are some pirate-epical, poetic categories, but they're not political and legal categories. It is not a living thing, none of it will be good for the citizens, for the Serbs of Kosovo and Metohija. Here we have heard what the proposal for this resolution rests on, on symbols -- unity, patriotism, victory. That's what we heard. It was the vocabulary of one regime and one master who brought it all the way here. Milosevic was ready and declared victory for the Bad NATO forces at KIM. That's why I expect, if there's a score, it's for every praise. If it is bad, responsibility also implies a change of heart, that in peace you have the opportunity to reflect on your delusions. You may have wanted everything well, but nothing good worked out. It cannot continue to sit on such a responsible function as in the case of the SCG State Community. This was the first goal, the first priority – the preservation and strengthening of the SCG state community. She fell apart and it doesn't matter. It's important to be in power. It's not justice or justice. (President: Time. It's a force, a force in the fight for power, at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4957	Thank you very much. The word of the messenger of the people is Srdjan Shain; and let the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4958	Ladies and gentlemen, the Roma Party fully understands the current moment in which the state of Serbia is located and in which the Serbian people are located. In that sense, and in the sense that we are bound by historical things to suffering together with the Serbian people, the Roma Party will support this document, for the simple reason that it creates conditions for Serbia to enter into a process of new negotiations, a process in which the best possible solution will be found. We are also pleased that, following talks with Minister Samardzic, we could find in the text the part that adopted our suggestions, which is the part that Serbia will guarantee not only the perspective of peace but also the prosperous future of all citizens in Serbia, i.e. KIM. In this direction, we believe that not only the legal argument, but also the argument that holds essential humanitarian elements, can also strengthen Serbia's position in the negotiations and thus create a negotiating team, the situation to negotiate and negotiate what Serbia's views are. I must point out that in addition to the 200,000 Serbs displaced from Kosovo, there are about 100,000 Roma who have left their homes in Kosovo. Of this, about 50,000 Roma are in EU countries, and in this sense we expect the Serbian negotiating team to place a special emphasis on creating conditions that all refugees, internally displaced persons, can return to Kosovo, and in this direction the Roma position is particularly focused, as the most Roma in EU countries that are displaced from Kosovo are. I expect that during the negotiations, the government's permanent active policy is to overcome the social problems that all citizens face, especially members of the Roma national community who have avoided. We expect it to stand firm and constantly explain to the international community that we need to regain property to all those who have lost their assets at KIM. Today I received evasive faces from Kosovo that are beneath Gazela. Among them are people who had two-story buildings there, and today live under Gazela, expecting whether Belgrade authorities will identify them with some sort of alternative accommodation or will be the victims of certain negotiations in the negotiation processes with the city authorities. For the sake of time, I'd say only three other things for a short while. I believe that the political parties that are in Serbia's parliament, together with the National Council, should make an important contribution to the negotiating team in defining their right views. Regardless of what I was saying at last session of the Assembly that the Ministry of Administration did not call an emergency election for the National Council, although it was mandatory, as a citizen of Serbia, I believe that this body should be included in the negotiations, because it is the only legitimate body that exists now. But it does not diminish the responsibility of the restoring ministry to truly fulfil its legal obligation. From this pay phone, I want to show one understanding of the future of Serbia, which the Roma Party has, but a lack of understanding for the behaviour of this resolute ministry. I also think Mr. Pastor accidentally, when he listed the national minorities, placed the Roma under "others". I don't think they deserve it in Serbia or in numbers, or in any other capacity. Finally, I conclude with this that the Roma Party is voting in favour, because we expect this to open up a perspective for agreements and that this opens up the possibility of achieving the best possible solution, solutions that will be best possible for Serbia and the Serb people, and a solution that will create the proper prosperity for members of the Albanian national community in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4959	Thank you. The word of the people is of the messenger of Alexander Jerkov: let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4960	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, Mr. President, on the question of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina in which this time "we do not give Kosovo" differs from the last "do not give Kosovo" of 1999, from that of 10 years ago and all other and earlier "do not give Kosovo", from the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica and the current government of Vojislav Kostunica, we get the answer because this time Serbia offers a compromise in terms of autonomy. We're afraid it's not a compromise. Because between Kosovo's stance that it will not agree to anything less than independence and the view of the negotiating team that it will never recognise independence -- autonomy is no compromise, especially this essential one that is offered. Because this fundamental autonomy, which our country represents as a major concession, is nothing more than a European standard of autonomy that has any region of any centralised Europe. If this Serbia had offered 16 or 17 years ago as a solution to the Kosovo problem, perhaps it could have been applicable. Like this and now, it's hard. However, the question arises that this is suddenly the decentralisation of Serbia, which you have all condemned in turn as a factor of disintegration and a way to break up the country, suddenly became a factor of integration and a way to preserve Kosovo within Serbia. What you are proposing now, this is what the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina proposed in 1999, only we were separatists then, and you are now statesmen and unificationists. We now see the same Vojislav Kostunica, who boasted in his campaign that he had written scientific papers on the harmfulness of the Constitution since 1974, here the citizens of Kosovo have been offering the same solutions from the same constitution, only fearing the seces of 30 years late. Mr Kostunica, Kosovo citizens do not need solutions from 30 years ago, they need solutions for the next 30, 60 and 100 years. However, this proposal, offered by the state negotiating team of the government of the Republic of Serbia, continues to show that the ruling majority continues to intend only to declare Kosovo in Serbia, and that it has no intention of really treating Kosovo as part of Serbia. This is seen in the provision -- that there will be no need for Kosovo Albanians to participate in institutions and systemic solutions in Serbia. I'm very sorry, but I'm also very sorry about the need for it. It's their right and you can't take it away from them. As long as you claim that Kosovo is part of Serbia, and you do not treat Kosovo citizens as citizens of Serbia, you have no right to claim it. In addition, how do you expect that after the constitution adopted by anyone who believes that Serbia is ready to give any autonomy to Kosovo and that of its province, which has no separatist tendencies, to take away all autonomy? How do you expect the international community to believe that and, more importantly, how do you expect Kosovo citizens to believe that? Finally, when we talk about the possibility of some countries still recognising Kosovo and Metohija, we think it is an inadmissible and extremely dangerous definition of "the timely and energetic actions of the state", without explaining what they mean. That's why I can't agree, President Tadic, with your statement from Sunday that it's a loser's resolution to mention it. We don't see anything losing in letting citizens know what's going to happen to their lives. We also voted for you because in the election campaign you claimed that you would represent politics different from this one, which thinks it is a wasteful thing to tell citizens what would appear on their behalf. Because of the preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija of the Republic of Serbia, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina will vote against this resolution, because we consider this to be only one in a number of ways to extend this agony and to drag Serbia into conflict with both the citizens of Kosovo and the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4961	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dr Rajko Đurić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister of the State, Prime Ministers, the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija is characterized by a large number of strangers, who among the Serbian population are causing a large amount of uncertainty and expectation. Such troubles and doubts have long not been so strong against a national collectiveity as is now the case with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The western countries are trying to replace Resolution 1244, which is the only guarantee of Serbia's integrity and territorial sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. It is not known in the history of such indifference, which respects neither international law nor moral nor other valid attitudes in international communication. Serbs, on the other hand, hold to the arguments that while there is resolution 1244 Cosmet is not lost. Negative consequences have resulted in exhaustion, straining and stalling of a self-proclaimed democratic bloc in forming a government. Anything that preceded the act, the way the coalition partners treated it, the fortification of the markets for better starting positions of the government's parties, merely marked a distraction and a loss of steps to be taken urgently to try to unwind the entrenched Kosovo knot. Such behaviour has not contributed to the strengthening of our position in the requirements for the continuation of negotiations in order to find a more favourable solution to Kosovo's future status. That's why what happened is unimaginable for countries that hold their reputation at a time when the strongest diplomatic battle for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija should be fought -- that we do not have ambassadors in important world metropolis. Without indignation, but with the need for certain things to be clear, we can now identify what we Socialists have often said - that the international community only continues with the ultimatums, from Rambuje, through the introduction of some called standards in Kosovo and Metohija, which give all rights to temporary institutions installed in this area, to open demands that Serbs give up works of their territory, without even having the right to call for the need to preserve state integrity and sovereignty. At the hands of these pledges, many individuals, NGOs and political parties have been on the domestic stage for all these years, with open demands on the need to give up Kosovo and Metohija, as they say it is a burden on Serbia's neck and territory in which Serbia no longer has any influence. So encouragement for the Serbian side stems from Russia's principled stance, which is seriously approaching the issue of solutions for Kosovo and Metohija, not accepting that the solution is found until Belgrade agrees. Now both those individuals and circles in our country, who, because of their blindness to Western democracy, spoke utterly underestimatingly of the power of Russia and China, shyly speak of the need to turn mother to Russia, in which they seek salvation to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. The far-fetched question is that over the past seven years, according to her advocates, five-octobar democracy has not brought out at least one sincere friend from the world, who supports our country's views. Cosmetic Serbs see a new ray of hope in the establishment of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. I deliberately hurried this, because I want to address you here, since I come here from central Kosovo and Metohija. In previous discussions, there have been a lot of demagogy and a lot of hypocrisy, and very little, almost nothing about the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Those advocates who spoke of the alleged threat to the human rights of Albanians, here is not a word about the threat of Serbs in their own territory. The 21st century's most endangered human rights in Europe and the Balkans are the rights of Serbs. So I use my right to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, in a conversation with the people, Mr. President, on these questions to which the people seek an answer, I ask to be answered in writing, which is next. Do you know that while we are here discussing, in Kosovo and Metohija, in the Serb enclaves, electricity restrictions 5+1 and there are no water in the enclaves; that the most dangerous situation in Metohija, in the municipality of Klina, in the village of Brestovic? Why is there a three-hour wait at the Merdare Point in this heat in broad daylight? Is that the result of the former regime and former leadership? No, that's the problem with leadership, ignorance and incompetence. How long will Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, from the central part of Moravia area, from Metohija, pay double registrations? What does double registration mean? To Merdar with the registration of the Republic of Serbia, and from Merdar they are obliged to take the registration of temporary institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. To get out of Kosovo and Metohija, if you have no registration of Serbia, you must pay a certain tax to the state of Serbia. Why are Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija being punished as foreign citizens in an emergency procedure and taken immediately to the judge for violations? Are we citizens of Serbia or are we foreign citizens, if we have driving licences, registration and traffic permits from the Republic of Serbia? Do you know, 27,000 people who have worked in the economy in Kosovo and Metohija, who have been creating for years, of which 17,000 in Serbia, and 10,000 in Kosovo and Metohija receives a minimumer, 4,600 and 9 plus 30%, although we seem to have made a legal commitment, an imperative, to pay off for these people who are 9,000 in Serbia, and one month paid off, and it's back to the past. Gentlemen, while there are people in Kosovo and Metohija there will be Serbia, we will conduct negotiations here, and bring resolutions and lead a high policy. Eight generations of high school students went out in Kosovo and Metohija. Only in central section 4,000. There are among them married and married. They say - Mr. MP, what do we have from the state of Serbia, I have two children, I have no job, what do I do? They're going after the bread with their stomachs. I'm afraid that in ten years in Kosovo and Metohija, we'll have nursing homes and we'll also have nothing to talk about. After eight years, why not create a single database, see what the state of Serbia is funding in Kosovo and Metohija? Because we made big mistakes? We have a family with eight members, which receives 200 percent, on the one hand, and a family on the other, which has five or six members, has one minimumer or two minimumers. Is that a problem? Is that the result of the former regime? Parents, teachers, students and people have preserved Kosovo and Metohija. We have maintained a system of education under the education system of the Republic of Serbia. After eight years, we have schools in Kosovo and Metohija, where three schools attend one school. What does that make you? How long will healthcare be provided in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija in the installation barracks and improvised conditions? When I spoke about demagoggy and hypocrisy, one number of people responsible by the authorities, on the one hand, we are declaring ourselves advocating the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand it is planned to release 270 workers in RTS, TV Most, and to shut down the social programme, to shut down the "Unity" list as the only Serb paper in Kosovo and Metohija. Did you go around and know what conditions material and technical are in? Do you know the conditions of Radio Gracanica? What about infrastructure in Kosovo and Metohija? Why did you give up building the road Gracanica – Laplje Selo? Why did it give up building a settlement to return to Gracanica, so that the paradox could be even bigger, the Albanian municipality in Pristina gave permission to build a settlement? How long will 75 families in the central part live in iron containers in Kosovo and Metohija? Itd, etc. Those who advocate some kind of turn of state policy here, is it the turn of state policy that we leave Kosovo and Metohija? Some debaters here warn us that we, like Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, have nothing to look for. Is the turn of the Kosovo and Metohija policies, denial of the Raska area, denial of Vojvodina and putting Serbia in cantons by Swiss or Spanish models. In the end, Madam President, President of the State, you were in the port of the Gracanica monastery, and if I may remember, on the impromptu stage you said - I didn't come here to give big speeches, I came to create conditions that you could live at least a little better. There was little content for Serbs in Kosovo to be at least a little better. It is not good that the ministry formed for Kosovo and Metohija deals with diplomacy. It's the foreign minister's jurisdiction. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija must solve all these problems and other problems. For the President, Prime Minister and Minister, you have the highest responsibility for the fate of the Serb people in the Kosovo area and Metohija in all variants. In the variants that, conditionally speaking, we win, in the variants of unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija and in the variant of the Security Council making some kind of decision. If you make state measures, you will say it is the international community in charge, that is what the Albanians are in charge of. For the past eight years, the international community has worked in the interests of Albanians, to the detriment of Serbs. Albanians have no intention, Albanians do not give up their desire to create an independent Kosovo. I am responsibly telling you here, if we were to go with these measures, for certain measures, we don't need economic resources, I think that people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija would be able to stay that way and make a contribution, and anyway contribute, to the preservation of Serbia's state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4963	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Dr Rajko Djuric, so let the MP Stojanka Petkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4964	Dear Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Kostunica, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, as a member of a people in whose history, as well as in the history of Jews, the holocaust encyclopedia takes a central place, I feel not only invited but in the human and moral sense of that word, obliged to speak about Kosovo, where in 1999, the hand of KLA members was written another chapter in that encyclopedia, in which 2,000 to 2,500 Roma victims and names of more than 230,000 Roma who had lost their home and no grave. From the latest chapter of the genocide encyclopedia, or as euphemistically said by ethnic cleansing, I will mention first one-year-old boy, Nedja Krasniqi of Obilić, who was burned alive on July 5th 1999. The name of the boy, who did not then know to pronounce his name, nor Kosovo, add more Enver Ljuan and Meriet Kastrati from Prizren, who were slaughtered on July 9th 99th. With the names of about 1,000 Roma from the list available, it is written, quote – shot, killed, kidnapped, disappeared. I draw attention to Serbia's politicians that in the future they are not only talking about territorial loss but also about human losses, which are percentage higher than territorial ones, because they are more than 20%. In addition, I am obliged to say, the negotiations on Kosovo require a team, not teams and teams. The biggest and scariest blood tax was made by Roma in Pristina, Peća, Obilić, Djakovici, Lipljana, Podujevo, Prizren, Mitrovica, Vučitrna and Gjilan. The ashes of children, like those of Auschwitz, mixed with the ashes of Roma houses, the fire of crime and madness destroyed life in the streets of Moravska, Dalmatia, Kolibarska, Pristina, where more than 35,000 Roma lived. The abandoned settlements of Roma have been destroyed in many other places in Kosovo and Metohija. From 196 settlements, only 20 left. If a monument was built for the murdered and exiled victims of the Kosovo Roma, and from the materials of their homes, I believe it could be a monument of the size of the one who was raised by victims of European Jews in Berlin. Many European and world media have written about these crimes and crimes against the Roma. The illustrations are doing, I'll mention just a few today: Berlin teatung, Frankfurter rundshaw, Di Velt, Der Spigl, Parisian Mond, Liberation, Daily Telegraph, Washington Post, The New York Times. On the other hand, it is irrefutable that independent Kosovo was spoken and written before the war in Kosovo. In this regard, the question arises whether European and world statesmen and politicians, especially those who advocated an independent Kosovo today, are ready to acknowledge that ideas and plans for this "ethnicly clean house" were invented at the time of the former Yugoslavia and that Bajram Bukoshi then addressed Lord Carrington and the foreign ministers of the 12 states of the European community, demanding recognition of an independent state of Kosovo, with an explanation that is essentially no different from Ahtisaari's proposal and plan. I have this text of his in German and I'm going to leave it to the ladies who are stenographic. Another document from those days mentioned that 7 million Albanians expect a solution, hoping to live in one country, therefore, in large Albania, which, according to the document, should become a factor of stability not only in the region, but throughout Europe. European and world politicians then happily refused to become the victim of short memory. In fact, the proposal for independent Kosovo and the idea of creating a great Albania also called for some memories of Mussolini, one of the ideas architects of the great Albania, and Hitler, who entrusted the realization of the idea in 1943 to the envoy of the foreign ministry for the southeast of Nazi Germany, Herman Nojbauher. If by the definition of philosophers, history is anchored in the present, has its conjecture in the past and has its consequences affecting the future and lives of people and peoples, can European and world politicians, diplomats and statesmen today, in the 21st century, allow the creation of a single state, which in its foundation would have ideas of the chief leaders of fascism and Nazism, the greatest criminals in Europe and the history of humanity? If the main protagonists of this idea freed the underground currents of history and confirmed to their evildoers that truly followers of the ideas of the greatest criminals, unfortunately destroying and persecuting the Roma, almost all of whom had Albanian names, spoke Albanian and were Muslims, could European and world politicians allow and agree with the declaration of a country on the ground soaked in blood and infused with the ashes of innocent victims, therefore, the state in which they will have the authority of those who have ruthlessly carried out ethnic cleansing, i.e. Those whose hands are bloody to the elbows? European politicians have proven that reasonable solutions, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, can also be found after Auschwitz. Europe has very much evidence for this. A solution that would mean the humiliation of peoples and their homelands has not been applied to countries, which may not be due to crimes they deserve to exist anymore. The famous German historian Leopold Ranke was right to say, "The peoples bear war wounds more easily, they forget suffering and torture than humiliation. Hope cannot shine in ruin, pride does not appear in humiliation." Independent Kosovo would mean exactly that, the greatest humiliation for the Serbian people, for Serbia and for all its citizens. Only three proposals, Mr. Dulic, if you'll allow, given what we've heard from Mr. Shane, I suggest that Roma representatives be involved in the Ministry of Kosovo. Second, to create conditions for listing their assets. Third, to hold a European conference this year or early next year. I end, please, with your permission in the end, with a message from this place of European and world politicians, and some of my European friends, that they should always bear in mind historical facts, that Europe twice, in 914 and 41, has shown its anti-European and barbaric in these areas, I dare even say, man-eating face. If today's Europe has as much understanding for Serbia as it has for post-war Germany and Austria, or for Spain, which has been under Frank's boot for decades, or for Portugal, for example, then it will have the right to expect and demand from Serbia, a 'great policy,' i.e. policy of rapid assessment, self-restriction and reliable commitment'... (President: Mr. Guric, time. )......................................................................................................... '"a policy that takes into account the overall human event, i.e. It works, thinks and speaks so that it trusts the whole world. '"That's what he wrote and thought the famous Karl Jaspers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4965	Mr. Djuric, you've really wasted your time. I must tell you that you've wasted your time at your MP's club, so Mr. Riza Halimi won't be able to speak, since you've wasted his time. The word has the People's MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4966	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, the Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been five and a half months since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia led the debate, adopted the Resolution and gave full mandate to the negotiating team to continue negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. To this day, the negotiating team did not inform the Assembly of what was happening in Vienna, which put parliament and MPs in another plan, so information came through various means of information. This relationship between the negotiating team and the state summit towards parliament for such an important, important and significant state issue is inadmissible, if it is very well known that all the leading countries in the world, other than us MPs, have been very actively engaged in the past after allegedly held negotiations in Vienna, where two negotiating teams have expressed their opposing views, Martti Ahtisaari has drawn up a plan based on the views and aspirations of the Albanian negotiating team on supervised independence of Kosovo and Metohija and has referred to it in the Security Council of the United Nations. Martti Ahtisaari's plan on all elements is absolutely unacceptable to the entire Serb community, as well as to the G 17 Plus party. Based on this plan, Marty Ahtisaari, the United States and some members of the European Union were trying on six occasions to bring a new resolution into the United Nations Security Council, which would mean that the European Union's responsibilities and responsibilities would be taken over by the European Union, which would put Resolution 1244 out of effect and thus get Kosovo out of the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It would also pave the way for our southern province's independence. State diplomacy and the principled views of the Russian Federation have contributed to the rejection of all six proposed UN Security Council resolutions, so it can be said that Belgrade-Moscow's common policy has opened a period of new negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, which should now be used. Following a series of diplomatic pressures and attempts to impose independence on the right of force, not by force of rights and arguments, the transfer of the process of negotiations with the Security Council to the Contact Group can make the current relief for state diplomacy and the negotiating team, as it provides them with better preparation for a new round of negotiations with Pristina. Unaccepting Ahtisaari's plan and failing to deliver a UN Security Council resolution on Kosovo's final status, current Albanian politicians are promoting as a threat to finding alternative ways and ways to reach independence, which does not exclude the self-proclaiming parliament of Kosovo, which Kosovo Prime Minister Agim Cehu himself recently announced. Such statements pose a threat to the Serbian people in Kosovo are the product of promises and statements by the top Serbian officials of the US administration that Kosovo will be independent one way or another by the end of the year and that no one can interfere with the process. If and when there is an independent declaration of Kosovo's independence and the unilateral recognition of certain countries in the world, I believe this would lead to disastrous consequences for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and their security and survival, as well as peace and stability throughout the region, which would lead Serbia to a serious situation of further reviewing diplomatic co-operation with those countries. If new negotiations are under way through shuttle diplomacy, holding an international conference or direct negotiations on Kosovo's status, I fear that international surveillance of autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija, proposed by the Serbian negotiating team at the latest negotiations with Pristina, held in Vienna, is not the most favourable solution for the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. Why do I say that? It is known that autonomy from 1974, when Kosovo had its own Constitution, when the province was part of the Republic of Serbia, or then Yugoslavia, and when JNA was present and provided all state borders, Serbia had no legal sovereignty, i.e. legislative, judicial and executive power. The period saw the largest persecution and emigration of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. So the G17 Plus party is known to advocate a peaceful and compromise solution between Belgrade and Pristina, which would lead to lasting peace and stability in this part of Europe. I hope that the new negotiating team, as well as the state political summit, will lead to such a solution that Kosovo and Metohija will remain under the state and legal sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and that every Serbian and non-Albanian resident, wherever he lives in Kosovo and Metohija, will be protected. This would also mean meeting the living standards guaranteed by Resolution 1244, which means peace, security, return and economic prosperity of the Serbian living and better quality of life in Kosovo and Metohija as a basic condition for staying and survival. Given that Brussels announces that all options for resolving Kosovo's status and Metohija will be opened on the table, I am of the opinion that our negotiating team should also draw up other plans to be ready for any direction or direction of further negotiations. Any solution to be taken in the Contact Group must be returned to the adoption of the UN Security Council, because it is the only legitimate body that can make such a decision. Anything else would be a violation of all the international documents brought in. The G17 Plus party will vote today for Resolution, as it is of paramount importance for this parliament to adopt a single view towards a fair solution to the cosmetic problem, which would also give full support to the negotiating team to participate in further negotiations with Pristina. Finally, to point out once again that Serbia's unity in Kosovo and Metohija is primarily needed, as well as the negotiating team's obligation to regularly inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that negotiations are under way and further solutions are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4967	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Nenad Prokic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4968	Respected, in the final irony, AVNOJ's borders, for which Serbia has been so unfortunately and wrongly trying to change them, will be changed, but only in the case and at Serbia's expense. It is the price of a hohstaple policy, which leads the main word so long in Serbia. Serbian political elites, still very outdated and stupid, are unprepared for any real change. They interpret the world in their prevailing way and distance Serbia from it more and more, vitally jeopardising the development strategy of the entire society and its future. The sovereignty of a country today is being less and less measured by the size of its territory and the power of its military force, and more and more by the generality of the civilization and individual narrow-minded information knowledge of community members. Collective dignity today is no longer possible to defend otherwise. The government doesn't even explain how it will apply its policy in Kosovo. What does he mean, say, to take control at the border of Kosovo with Albania and Macedonia? But one thing is clear, this is the last time that some political forces in Serbia, through Kosovo, are achieving their selfish political ambitions in Serbia itself. In fact, completely uninterested in Kosovo and Serbs and Albanians on it. When self-proclaimed Serbian patriots march on Kosovo in 2007, in the failed and poor matrix of Cankar's home nearly two decades later, they do so to remind the Western Christian world of the gratitude it allegedly owes Serbia and its historical right, i.e. the Kosovo Battle 1389, when Christianity was defended. What they didn't remind the world of is the battle of Nikopol 1396, only seven years later, where Serbian troops as part of the Turkish army, headed by despot Stefan Lazarevic, the vase and brother-in-law of Commander Bajazit, literally broke Christian Western European knights and this "Coop de Gras" made a decisive contribution to the military presence of the Ottoman Empire in Europe for the next 500 years. How much do they really owe us? It is not emancipated to experience history only as part of biased reality. Was the new constitution called for the reintegration of Kosovo Albanians in Serbia? It's not. Does such a number of neighboring people have to build a well-intentioned base for friendship and partnership on a completely new basis in the 21st century? He has to. Is there a future where most people in Serbia are happy, without understanding and joining world processes? It doesn't exist. Very long and very dishonest and unsuccessfully calling from Belgrade about Kosovo, and only Kosovo remains always the most lagging, always the poorest. That's not how you treat the holy earth. Warming up a bribe, with so many lies, it had to be unsuccessful in the end. State affairs should stop leading people led by ideas that were modern in the 19th century. If it had been done 20 years ago, today Kosovo would have been happy and forever in Serbia and together with it in the European community. This is how we lost him. Who will be the new vase and brother-in-law, this time Putin, separating us again, for who knows which way, from the European homeland, remains to be guessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4969	The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Marton be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4970	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and fellow MPs, NS MPs, within the DSS-Nova Srbija-Dr. Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group, absolutely accept the State Negotiation Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on negotiations held from 21 February to 2 March 2007. The positive results of the negotiations are likely to be visible to those who were total skeptics, as our country's position is far more favourable than it was last year. The infamous Martti Ahtisaari's plan has failed, and with it our country's attempt to disintegrate and its most precious part, her heart and soul, separate and steal from our people. Moreover, I think the Serbian people have grown to know that when we talk about resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status, it is, in fact, the status of the Serbian state. If someone wants to take away their heart, and Kosovo and Metohija is the heart of our country, it is hard for the country as a whole to survive. I don't want to mention it specifically to anyone on the negotiating team so far, but I want to mention Mr. Leon Koin, I think I'm bound to do that as a man and convey here the opinion of the citizens I've spoken to, who regretted resigning, because they think, as I do, that Mr. Cohen has strongly, with dignity and courage, represented the interests of our country. The NS MPs thank him and congratulate him for his work so far and for pushing for the truth about Kosovo and Metohija to win. As for the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair settlement of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, based on international law, New Serbia MPs, within the framework of the DSS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary club, this resolution is supported from word to word, because we think that it practically contains a plan for the further activities of all state authorities in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. For the last 15 years, we've been looking for friends in the world to defend ourselves and protect our legitimate interests. Now we have friends, we have unity as rarely when within this assembly, we have unity in the people and Kosovo and Metohija will remain in the state of Serbia forever. In the end, I'm not a translator by education, I'm not a diplomat, I'm not a statesman, so I don't have to be restrained here, I want all my fellow MPs, who didn't understand the essence of the proposed declaration, to translate it into two sentences: Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, we don't give Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4971	The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Marton; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milos Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4972	Dear President, the Presidency, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, members of the government and MPs, I would like to point out that the paper we received was six months late. The paper that the resolution minister and his associates brought to the Republika Srpska Assembly and which speaks of the Serbian state's guidelines towards Kosovo should have been in front of us more than 150 days ago. I think it is another evidence of inadmissible pride, so to speak, of the executive authority towards the highest legislative body in Serbia, but it is clear to all of us MPs what the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority in this country is. The paper we've received speaks a lot about respect for international law and the UN Charter. Of course, Kosovo and Metohija should be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and we in LSV since the early 1990s have a crystal clear view – that the creation of ethnic states in these areas is creating major problems in the Balkans and causing major accidents. But did everyone share our attitude? In the 1990s, they didn't, and of course they don't share today. What was said only seven days ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Many MPs, therefore representatives of the people, spoke when discussing Serbia and Republika Srpska's special relations, about the secession of one piece of the neighbouring, so internationally recognised BiH states. Also, there were talk of secession of the part of Croatia, also internationally recognised countries. Is that good for the current position of the Republic of Serbia? Of course not. As we heard a half hour or a little more from LSV President Mr Chanka, Resolution 1244 guarantees the integrity of all countries of the region. Practically, in this way, by calling for disintegration of two neighbouring countries, we can say that it already violates Resolution 1244. I'm afraid it's not good for the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. One more minute, if you'll excuse me. It openly calls for violations of international law, on the other hand talking about respect for international law. I think it's a little hypocritical. We in Serbia, as well as the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, need a European future, a future that will mean a better, good life. I come from the AP Vojvodina, fully loyal to the Republic of Serbia. I think that's clear to everyone. The AP Vojvodina uses Serbian, Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian and Croatian, and in certain municipalities and Roma, Ukrainian and Czech. What are the official languages in use in Serbia? Just the Serbian and Cyrillic letters. As we heard, there are not 13% of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, according to the official list, but more than 35%. It's something that's a fact. We are one country, Kosovo and Metohija is still and I think it will remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to point out once again, as Parliamentarian Jerkov said a little while ago, the LSV is firmly on the point that Kosovo and Metohija should remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and I hope that by our European action in the Serbian Parliament and in Serbia at all, we will show that this country has a European future and that Kosovo also has a European future in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4973	The word of the Messenger of the people is Milos Jevtic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4974	The President-in-Office, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a resolution on the agenda that certainly represents a content and logical continuity in relation to the resolutions adopted by the Assembly in the previous period on Kosovo. What represents a new moment are the political circumstances that have changed since the adoption of the previous resolution to date. The very name of the resolution discusses the need for a fair solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issue. I think the very position of the Serbian negotiating team in the previous period is a constant. The Serbian negotiating team has been in favour from the very beginning, and while Martti Ahtisaari had his own proposal, which was current and at the moment when the proposal is no longer current, for a compromise, balanced solution, which will be acceptable for both sides in the negotiations. The reason for the Serbian negotiating team's attitude is based on two principles. The first principle is the principle of security, which represents a very important segment not only of Serbia's security, but also of the region's security, today called the Western Balkans or the entire Southeast Europe, but of the entire European continent. We have repeatedly heard claims that the solution to Kosovo, whatever it may be, cannot be precedentd for other similar cases, which, of course, does not correspond either to international law or to international practice. You can't prejudge whether one event will be precedentd or not, but when it happens, in fact, it represents something that can be applied in similar cases. This is, in fact, the essential reason why a number of European countries, which have similar problems, insisted that no unilateral resolution of this solution be accessed, but that the problem is solved exclusively within the limits of international law, or an appropriate UN Security Council resolution. The second aspect, which is very important, regarding the achievement of a compromise solution in this case, is the issue of implementation, i.e. the implementation of such a solution. If a solution is imposed on one of the two sides, such a solution, first of all, is not realistic in real political life, and on the other hand, the question of sustainability of the solution can also be raised. Given that all of this is happening in a region that is political, and also security, still quite turbulent, I think that claim and that position of the Serbian negotiating team actually has a lot of justification. As for the second part of the name of the resolution, which speaks of it having to be based on international law, I think it's quite clear. The very good circumstance that happened in the meantime is that we do not have a new Security Council resolution, that it may possibly be brought after reaching a compromise solution and after the next round of negotiations is over. Therefore, the framework for a possible solution and for these negotiations will be the existing Resolution 1244. As for the very course of negotiations, I would briefly recapture it. In fact, he began with a very careless statement by High Representative General Martti Ahtisaari, who we had repeatedly warned him about on all occasions, who had predetermined those negotiations to failure, or failure. It is hard to expect that with one such initial statement negotiations have one constructive course. To illustrate this in the best way, first of all, I will say that on every proposal by the Serbian negotiating team, not only when it comes to the status issue, but also a number of unconstitutional issues, such as judicial independence, the preservation of Serbian cultural monuments, the monastery in Kosovo, then the representation of Serbs and other non-Albanian populations in authorities, the issue of education, always received the same answer. That answer was that we will discuss it when Kosovo becomes independent. So, such an approach by Kosovo Albanians in the negotiations was not constructive and did not open any space for core negotiations that could bring any shift. At this point, the situation is much better than it was a year ago, and I think it is realistic to say that it is a good part of the consequences of, above all, synchronised activities, both the negotiating team and official Serbian diplomacy and ultimately parliamentary diplomacy. Of course, that should add one significant approach and support to the Russian Federation, both within the group's contact and within the UN Security Council. Of course, Russia as a world power in any case, even in this case, protects its interests, which at this point really coincide with Serbia's interests. However, if you want to find the best formula for Serbia in the coming period and within a new round of negotiations, Serbia has friends in Russia, Serbia should have friends in other countries, Serbia has many friends in the EU as well. As I said, there are a large number of countries that have similar problems, which are vigorously opposed to any unilateral recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, and that is a fact that we must all use together. I would especially like to pay attention to the two processes that are being brought into a relationship here, which, essentially, at this point, we cannot connect. One process is the process of finding a solution to KIM. The second process is the process of European integration. We received a clear signal from Brussels a few weeks ago that these two processes are processes that have no substance connection and that are completely separate, and that gives us a really great chance to stay on the European path, to continue the path of European integration, to finish all that we started, to complete the Stabilisation and Association negotiations and to protect Serbia's interests in KIM at the same time. That is, in fact, a question that is fully clarified at the moment and that no longer needs to be put on the agenda. As far as the current situation is concerned, I would say that she is truly, once again, more qualitatively than the situation we had a year ago. At this point, however, we must not succumb to any kind of euphoria. We are facing a difficult process of negotiations that is largely uncertain. So we don't even know under what conditions these negotiations will be conducted, and on the other hand, as responsible politicians, I don't think any of us can claim what the final outcome of these negotiations will be. However, there is a obligation for all state authorities in Serbia, including the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to act with maximum responsibility in this process and to really give their utmost to address the issue. In this context, I also observe today's debate and the adoption of a resolution on KIM. That is why I believe that this resolution should certainly manifest the unity of state policy and that is one of the reasons why the DS Parliament Club will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4975	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Alexander Vucic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Pesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sure that the citizens of Serbia, especially members of our people with KIM, expected much more than this debate, that Serbian citizens expected much more than this debate, that they expected serious answers to how and how our country will behave, what we are going to do in the coming period, what is it that Serbia must do to preserve its territory, to preserve its country. A few minutes ago, one of the MPs went out and called for a policy to preserve state territory or try to preserve state territory in Hohstappler. More like a policy that destroys the country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is a bandit policy. The bandit policy is not and will never be able to pass with the peoples and citizens of Serbia. This bandit policy, which supports the separatist aspirations of Albanians on KIM, is a bandit policy that also supports KIM acts of terrorism, accusing Serbia of responding to the Shyptar terrorists and defending their country and their people, so it does not turn out, even the president of the Republic today, to say to us that he, I imagine, complains that Milosevic's regime has committed crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. No, they were made by Albanian terrorists, Mr. Tadic. I don't know where you got that knowledge. We'd like you to tell us where the Serbian police and military forces, in the fight against terrorism, committed such crimes. I will remind you, those you let go of, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Beki Mazreku and his brother, raped three Serbian women in Klecka, killed no idea how many Serbs, recorded with a video camera. Of course, in The Hague, this was neither evidence nor evidence nor evidence could be used as evidence in the case against Fatmir Ljim and some other people involved, Mazreku himself and some others involved in the crime itself. We said here, Tomislav Nikolic as head of the SRS parliamentary group, that we would vote in favour of the resolution. We have to. Why do we have to? Not because we love the President of the Republic, not at all, not because we love the Prime Minister, not because we love power. Don't be mocked, Mr. Tadic, by what the MPs from this pay phone tell you. You are neither the father nor the mother of any of us to raise us here, to teach us, and to boast about it. I boast that it's a good thing we don't love you, which is a good thing we're criticizing you. We boast that we have a different policy than you, Mr. Tadic. I would not brag if I were you, because today when Tomislav Nikolic tells you that measures of the sixth degree in diplomatic relations should be taken – why? Not because we are losers, as you falsely declare to our people, but because you have to say that you will stop, if nothing, at least diplomatic relations with those who take away your country, in order to act preventively, so that whoever has a brain, who has brains in that country, will act in such a way as to say - this will not be our front, as it was until yesterday. Your reaction to that, and on TV, it was seen – wow, dude. Because you cannot hear that those who take away our territory are hostile to the state of Serbia. No, they are our great friends, great friend Javier Solana, who every day says Kosovo should gain independence. Just before, you applaud your MP, who falsely informs the public and says - the separate processes of joining the European Union and the processes of talks on Kosovo and Metohija are separate. So yesterday, Jose Manuel Barroso, in the state diary of Serbian Television, who you control along with Mr. Prime Minister, says -- Serbia will never be able to enter any European integration, we don't care, but we are telling you, until Kosovo and Metohija give up. Why don't you tell the people and the citizens of Serbia? What are you silent about? As lucky as you are to have nothing to do with us, we are happier that we have nothing to do with you in an idea-ideological way. But it is a shame that the President of the Republic, to what the head of parliaments of Serbia's largest political party says -- whoa, dude. You may have informed your advisors - organize a campaign, what did Toma Nikolic mean by that? Fortunately, behind that he said, there's nothing since the war, since you've destroyed everything from the army and beyond. Otherwise, you would hardly have expected it, because you are not interested in the future of Kosovo and Metohija, you are not interested in Serbia's future. You're interested in presidential elections, you're just interested in the chair, you're not interested in anything else. Serbian citizens see it. What kind of answer did they get today? What have the citizens of Serbia got to do with what the state is going to do? What did they hear? We've only heard about it -- well, we're going to do something, we're going to take energy measures. What's that? What is better for citizens of Serbian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija today? Do television and radio stations have what you pay well? You want to cut out their "unity" that's been coming out for decades? What else is going to happen in Kosovo and Metohija, and fix something and make something better? I am not one of those, and we are not the ones who accuse you and say, "It is you who are responsible for all that is happening, neither one nor the other, nor the very majority of the congregation." This process has been going on for a long time. For those who would put everything on Slobodan Milosevic, and I don't know who else, let me tell you, in 1912 there were 61% of Albanians in the territory that we now have as Kosovo and Metohija. According to the 1921 census, there was 64%, and only in 1923 did we start in Vučitrn and other settlements to return the Serb population. It's been a long, many years and decades. Today, those who are going to say -- well, we've had enough of this policy, we don't need Kosovo and Metohija, we need a European country. I don't know what your country and Munich is, and Paris, but my country and the Pec, and Pristina, and Belgrade, and Novi Sad, and Nis, and every other place in Serbia, and you do what you can to Munich and Paris. if they see you. [[Applause]] But don't take away what belongs to us Serbs and other Serbian citizens. We vote for the resolution today, not because the resolution is ideal. Minister Samardzic laughed at us when we told him in inter-party talks, because he knew that our decision would be that way. We do it not because of you, but because of the state of Serbia, because we have nothing to do with this country. Because we know that today it is important that we show everyone in the world, everyone on the globe, with our third MPs -- that we are opponents of the government, but we are not opponents of Serbia and we will never be opponents of Serbia. It's not hard for us to raise our hand and for a piece of paper we're not too happy with. There are three things in that paper that the Serbian Radical Party insisted on. The first thing, precisely because of prevention, not because of what will happen after, but because someone will probably start thinking about it, and the Americans, Michael Polt, campaigns against Serbia every day, a campaign to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, what are you up to? Demarsch, protest note? You were going to sing at the American embassy. What did you tell the Serbs when it was the five-day anniversary of the crime that Naser Oric committed? You sent them a card from Cobel's reception the night before, and the next day you didn't have time, Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister, to come to Bratunac and bow down to the Serbian victims. Cobel's reception was much more important, the one who told you that both Kosovo and Raska and Vojvodina would gain independence. Is that your commitment to Kosovo and Metohija? Is that what you're gonna laugh about and say "whoops, dude" or say "it's good"? I'd be ashamed if I were you. That's what we're different about, and I'm proud of it. Those measures have to be said. Whoever wants to take our territory, as you expect, you would three days after that -- we are a little angry with you, for taking Kosovo from us, wait for two or three months to calm down, so we continue normally with the European Union. They took 15% of our territory, killed something like that, no big deal -- is that a solution? Then tell the people that's the way it is. If you mind what Tomislav Nikolic was talking about, if you mind what the SRS is talking about, please state the facts clearly. Tell me I'm lying about what he said last night in your diary, Jose Manuel Barroso. The second question, we insisted in the resolution that it be made clear that the Serb assembly will always treat Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia's territory. What does that mean? If, God forbid, there is a unilateral recognition by certain countries, the United States, the European Union and your other friends, who want to take our land so well, so if your great friends do this to us, then what are we going to do? Those with transport permits, driver's licenses, IDs, passports of the Kosovo state on that part of Kosovo's territory and Metohija, which we cannot control, what then? We want to play them normal, or there's gonna be some smart guy coming through. No, it has to be put into look - that it'll never be able to. If they think of making such a nakarada out of the state with their policy of power, you friends, then make it nice to Budapest to go across Albania, Greece. I can get a little closer to the road, through Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania and then go to Budapest. It should all be put in their faces. It was all supposed to say in the resolution - no. It's our place to say it. One more thing. We said, we were told in the talks that the plan and what the Contact Group is going to solve is a test balloon. As we've seen, it's not a test balloon. Because your friends will at any cost try to remove the UN Security Council's decision-making post, because our friends from the Russian Federation won't let your friends take our territory together from Serbia's homeland. What's ours to do here? It is our job to see how and how to preserve Russian support, how and how the Russian Federation should remain our strategic partner to preserve the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Because those bandits, I can't call them any other way -- I'm sure, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that you agree with it, are bandits who don't respect the Constitution of Serbia and who are directly working against it -- therefore, those bandits who think it's good to lose the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, who in the election campaign were getting money from Ceku, Thaci and some others, and who think it's great, how fancy, how ultra-modern it is, there's only one thing that has to be said to them: people, this is not your front, and it's not how much money you're going to have to steal through this or that criminal, Serbia only exists with Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija is not Serbia, it's the rest of Serbia. But how do I explain it to the bandits? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for using so much of your attention. [[Applause]] I hope we learn more tonight, among other things, that we are to blame for the fact that the Ottoman Empire has ruled these premises for 500 years, that the despot Stefan Lazarevic is the greatest enemy of the Western European Empire and Western European civilization. We're going to hear a lot of things here from these god-awful modern types, and the people who only offer us -- that's that we don't have a country, that's that we don't have a people, and that their buttocks are as beautiful as they are, the deeper they enjoy, the better they enjoy, and the better the people and Serbia, they don't care. Kosovo and Metohija were and will remain part of the Republic of Serbia, wanted this or that state leadership. I ask just one more question-- where is the Constitutional Court, where are the state authorities, to clearly show the bandits, who are against the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, where they belong? It is certainly not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4977	The word has a folk MP Vesna Pesic, so let the MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic be prepared. The total time for your parliamentary group is 16 minutes to consider that, since there are others on your list. You spent four minutes. No, I'm sorry, you've already spent seven, six more minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4978	I know, Mr. President, we don't have enough minutes, so I'll just ask you a few questions. I am speaking to the honourable ministers, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. Don't throw it away, Mr. Nikolic. You don't usually do that, but it's a shame that you're throwing it at me. Well, really. All right, I'll take your apology. I'd like to say I don't see why this resolution is being passed. There's really nothing new in it, and I think we're attending a ritual. We heard earlier that Professor Micunovic said this was already the ninth resolution. We did not meet in a sober manner to agree on new negotiations, because we really welcome this from the LDP parliamentary group, it is good that there will be new negotiations. We understood that here we would agree on what our strategy is, what a realistic plan it is, which are some maximum, which are some minimum results that we can achieve with some kind of negotiations. It was some idea why this might seem meaningful, but I can see that there's no point here, that we'll ritually plead a hundred times, and even ask for unanimity and unanimity, and that's like we're on some Communist alliance, some convention, and we'll unanimously and unanimously come up with some resolution, where no conversation, no plan, we haven't prepared anything sober for new negotiations. So, if you look at what is proposed, you're proposing a already mummified resolution of 1244. I want to explain to the citizens that the Security Council can bring whatever resolution it wants and that this resolution is not binding at all, that we are also proposing for new negotiations what has already failed at previous negotiations, essential autonomy, and I must remind it, perhaps someone has looked at it, that our parliamentary group has proposed, could have discussed it, there is no discussion here at all, we have suggested that, given that it is a danger to think first of all about protecting the Serb community in Kosovo, that it should return to these negotiations the idea of creating two entities, two constituent peoples, Serbian and Albanian. If it were done, it would be some kind of key, so whatever it would bring to some Security Council, one or the other, then we would still have one situation where the Serb community would be provided. But I don't hear a word about it here at all, and it was one of the new ideas that we tried to suggest. But old words, old ideas. I wonder why such a ritual, why unanimity, without a reasonable discussion of what we should do. Here's why. Because this story, the citizens know it, they totally Googled it, they know that Kosovo should serve as a scale, as an ideology for demagogues, which takes 20 years to come to power and also that this country will never really become a normal state, but will mostly rule both poverty and corruption and powerlessness, etc. In the end, I would answer here this ritual talk, which we listen to every day in the congregation, which we just heard. It is not that someone around the European Union will make us enter the European Union on the issue and status of Kosovo. We are the ones who hear in this congregation every day that we condition them, means that we are you, and I have seen the statements of some others here, that we will be the ones who condition us to enter the European Union. So we will say 'no', we will condition, and that will not do the European Union. At least so far, from those relevant factors, we've never heard of such a condition so far. So I suggest we open up a real debate, otherwise these ritual stories don't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4979	The word has a folk MP, Dr Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Marko Jaksic be prepared. Your parliamentary group has eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4980	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, my presentation on this topic tonight – supporting the motion for a resolution on the status of Kosovo and Metohija, I will try to express myself in a way to declare or point to some of the delusions that exist, not only here, but also by some MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the delusions that can be heard in the talks held by representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of the parliaments of other countries, and unfortunately they can be heard from representatives of other countries, who come to Belgrade and talk to members of our negotiating team, with the leaders of the state and simply they declare those views to the public as some concrete fact, and when you hear something from what I am about to announce, you will see that unfortunately many things are not true. Tonight I have tried, in these few minutes, to add ten or twelve delusions that exist about Kosovo and Metohija, and if a man had more time and this topic in detail, believe that it would be far more. So the first or one of the most common delusions is that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija was created in the 1990s. Wrongly, it began at the end of the 19th century, when a major Albanian project was created, and this project has been going on for centuries, countries and ideologies are changing, but the project is taking place and unfortunately trying to realise a project that involves the creation of a mega-Albanian state in the Balkan area, and, of course, the abduction of space, state space, both from Serbia and Greece, and from Montenegro and Macedonia. The second delusion is it's been since the end of '98. years and early '99. an ethnic cleansing of members of the Albanian minority in Kosovo and Metohija by so-called Milosevic's regime and that Serbia should fall to it, simply that it should take Kosovo and Metohija. Wrong; ethnic cleansing was only in CNN reports, Christian Amampur, in statements by Sharping and similar to him. The fact is that today, a figure of 780,000 people reportedly being subject to ethnic cleansing, but there are completely different explanations of population movement, the majority of the population then moved naturally because of the NATO bombings, due to the conflicts that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had with the terrorist forces and actions of the UCK, which forced the population to move to create the impression of mass persecution. Finally, in 2002, this esteemed home formed a commission to determine all the circumstances regarding missing and exiled persons and the data he found, along with the Red Cross, speak completely, completely different. In addition, the OSCE report, which spoke of the state of human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, which was one terrible propaganda material against the state of Serbia, was otherwise made by UN tribunal officials, was not taken as evidence in the case against Serbia's leaders, and it speaks in itself about what happened. By the way, the largest ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia was made over Serbs in Croatia, when the number of Serbs fell from 12.4% to 3.8%. But that subject, apparently, is not of interest to the soul-care community of the international community. The third delusion is that Resolution 1244 does not have its value, that it is exceeded and that it needs to be changed. On the contrary, it finds that Kosovo and Metohija belong to Serbia. It finds that essential autonomy is a framework for resolving the Kosovo and Metohija status issues and finds there is no independent Kosovo. The fourth delusion that can be heard – that Kosovo should have the same status as Montenegro, which, as you know, declared independence after the referendum. Wrongly; Montenegro was independent in 1878, in 1918 it entered the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, as the 2005 referendum declared. Kosovo and Metohija are the Autonomous Region of the Republic of Serbia. It became part of Serbia in the Balkan wars, before that it was part of the Ottoman Empire, and before that, the medieval state of Serbia. The fifth delusion, that in Kosovo and Metohija, under the auspices of the United Nations, human rights are respected, to respect institutions. Anyone who wants to see human rights respected in Kosovo read the reports of Mark Novicki, the Ombudsman for Human Rights, have six. A material that shows that there is absolutely no respect for human rights in Kosovo and Metohija for any other than members of the Albanian ethnic community, for other human rights do not exist, they are a thought category. In addition, if there were institutions in Kosovo and Metohija for the past eight years, it would have been more likely to come back from exile. In these eight years, how much the international community has ruled there, both civil and military, and how many institutions there are, just over 2% of the total of 245,000 expelled people have been returned. The sixth delusion is that Ahtisaari's plan is in line with international law and international documents. The delusion; it is the opposite and Charters of the United Nations, it is the opposite of the 1975 Helsinki Act, it is the opposite of international law, it is the opposite of the signed international contracts, it is the opposite of the documents that the Western countries supported in the 1990s when they unloaded the great Yugoslavia. This opportunity will only be mentioned by the Badenter Commission's report, which then, in the 1990s, identified the republican borders as internationally recognised. Now that report by the Badenter Commission, unfortunately, no one mentions it. It applies to all others, but it does not apply to Serbia, and it does speak in fact about those double arches that exist in the so-called ". to the international community. The eighth delusion that Ahtisaari's proposal does not make a precedent in international relations. False; here it is given right to minorities, that with the help of great forces, forces, terrorism, they can get their own country. One of Pandora's boxes opens, and the consequences will be unpredictable. There are several thousand minorities in the world, only 190 states. In itself, you can imagine what can happen if every minority, who wants to have a state, gets the chance to adopt the state. The ninth delusion that our country, the state of Serbia, has no plan and that there is no unity over the plan. It is not true; there is a plan for Serbia to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija status issue. Unfortunately, we in public don't have enough knowledge of that plan. I do not believe that all MPs, unfortunately, know the essential elements of that plan. I think the negotiating team, the state of Serbia, must do much, much more to show the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the content of the plan as much as possible. About unity; we SPS MPs everywhere talk about the SPS supporting the work of the negotiating team, supporting the plan, which also supports the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tadic, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mr Kostunica. We don't have the prejudice of a guy in the '90s to say when we think something and that something for the state should be done to stand behind it. Ideological prejudices on Kosovo are absolutely foreign to us. The tenth prejudice, the tenth delusion, that some Western countries, led by the United States, are traditional friends of Serbia. If they were friends, then they wouldn't bomb us, as they did in 99 years, because it's clear now, they admit it themselves, they didn't bomb Serbia at the time because of Milosevic, but to exempt Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia's legal system and to hand Kosovo and Metohija into the hands of Albanians. If they were friends, then they wouldn't give the Albanians, the Albanian minority community 15% of our territory, as they intend to do. If they were friends, they would not close their eyes against the violence committed by Albanians against Serbs, Roma and other citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. Eleventh, the last delusion for tonight, related to Kosovo and Metohija, that there could be no negotiations between Serbia and Pristina. It may, but at a time when the Albanian side accepts that it is indeed negotiating, it does not use the argument of the United States or some other Western countries as a final argument. It may be negotiated, if international law is taken into account, if international experience is taken into account. Many times we Socialists have spoken and we will repeat what others have said tonight, we welcome it, that there is no international experience regarding the issue of essential autonomy that Serbia cannot accept. If this question is solved by force, then it will be neither good nor longevity. That is why negotiations should be given, because the only solution identified by the negotiations will be a solution that will bring both Serbia and the region and stability and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4981	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4982	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Ministers, here in this Chamber, some 20 years ago, the Assembly of the then-convening Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia discussed, above all, what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. She discussed, first of all, the return of Serbs. She brought a Yugoslav programme for the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija and did so from the government of Milka Planinc to the government of Ante Markovic. At the time, let me remind you, that Djordje Balaševic sang the song "Don't break my acacias", just for the very reason and purpose that even then there was violence against Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, that more than 150 thousand, then, according to the criteria of the then officials, since 1974, left Kosovo and Metohija. What's he saying? He says loud and clear that ethnic cleansing and crimes against Serbs take a long time. From here, just a hundred metres away, in another building, hundreds of years ago, the Serbian Kingdom discussed Arnaut crimes against Serbs in the space of the old Serbia. Killing Serbs is not a newer date. What Serbs as a people experience and survive, in the name of creating another Albanian state in the Balkans, has been garnered and engulfed by crimes that last more than 300 years. We only remember the time when Hadji Seraphim Ristic, an iguman manifested by Decani, describes it as a time from 1850 when they envied the dead alive. Ladies and gentlemen, we down in the space of Kosovo and Metohija have a struggle of two peoples for space, whatever we say, want and talk about. Today, Albania's political summit talks about violence, if they do not get another Albanian state in the Balkans, continues to speak and threaten to kill Serbs if they do not get another one of their own countries for God's sake. A year ago, a former Canadian ambassador to Belgrade said that today there are a large number, almost a hundred separatist movements in the world, but only all of them, Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija do not have the right to get their country, because everything and what they have done today, do, kill and banish their neighbours from their centuries-old hearth. Unfortunately, even during the international community's presence since 1999, the exodus of Serbs continues. What is important and important is that at the beginning of the high representatives, Mr Kushner and all of us spoke and showed the map plans and the way in which Serbs should be protected. We wondered how they couldn't understand how they couldn't understand the way they needed to protect the Serbs. After that, we realized that they don't want to protect the Serbs at all. Unfortunately, there has been a so-called projected exodus in the area of Kosovo and Metohija for the past eight years. More than 200,000 of our countrymen have left their premises and then happens by prescription from Croatia – banish them all, then return them to the spoon. And so don't be surprised that the return of Serbs to those areas is gone, because if the Albanians wanted the Serbs to stay there, they wouldn't banish them. In 2004, too, it spoke loudly and loudly about the so-called projected exodus of Serbs, as it always comes from one fact -- the fewer Serbs down there, the easier it is to make another Albanian state in the Balkans. Unfortunately, these criminals to this day, and what has been happening in that space since 2004, are neither caught nor punished, which is all spoken out loud and clear, above all, that everything that smells of the state of Serbia, the demonstration of all the institutions of the Serbian state, must essentially disappear from that space. We thought that by overthrowing Slobodan Milosevic from power, the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija would improve. Unfortunately, it didn't happen and it didn't happen. They started calling our institutions parallel structures. We had great pains and troubles to preserve our schools, which almost a thousand years later became parallel structures from the Holy Sava. That, to put it this way, those who came in 99 to make order and peace showed and show in the beginning, at the very end, saw that their wish was primarily to build another Albanian state in the Balkans. In Kosovo, Pristina, Albanians have formed a so-called unity team. A unity team simply needs to build another Albanian state in the Balkans. They're on the same team as Cheku and Haradinaj and Thaci and all the others. We know their party militias keep fighting each other, killing each other and fighting each other. But when it comes to the creation of another Albanian state, there is absolute unity. I think from them, we can learn a lot from all that. On the other hand, let us also consider the position from which such and so much desire to create another Albanian state in the Balkans, primarily from America and individual EU countries. This is the price of the war alliance during Serbia's 99th bombing, because while they bombed us out of the air, they fought the country to make NATO pact troops reach Kosovo and Metohija. For many other reasons, the Albanian political summit wants another state for itself. First of all, by creating another Albanian state in the Balkans, the Albanian political summit, which committed crimes, would be free of these crimes. Otherwise, they are, and we all know it, on Serbia's MUP warrants. Also, in these eight years, I repeat, they have taken everything that the Serbian state has built in that space, they have seized more than 100,000 hectares of land, which is primarily owned by the church and owned by Serbs, and have divided the country among themselves. If there is another Albanian state, they will not return the country. If it is not available, everything they have taken will have to be returned, with only one remark that such a, such privatisation, unfortunately, is done by the European Agency for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, at the very end, I think that independent Kosovo will never be and will never be created if we are strong, complex, unique. In the interest of pride, dignity, we must defend Kosovo as part of the state of Serbia; we must, not for epic, not for lyrical reasons. By granting Albanians the right to another state, we will give the killers the right, criminals amnesty, because we will say they were right because they were killing to create another Albanian state. We will also give the persecutors the right to be right that so many Serbs have banished and expelled because they have achieved their goal by creating another Albanian state. For pride, for dignity, for our own sake, for future generations, we must neither agree nor allow criminals or villains to form another state of our own. I don't think they should be representatives of Belgrade on the unity team from any political structures. Because losing Kosovo will not be the same as before. We will be no more people, we will be just one amorphous mass without smell, colour and taste, because we will admit that crimes can achieve political goals. In terms of that and in light of that, I appeal and expect that we will all vote together, together and loudly, for the resolution and survival of Kosovo within the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4983	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zarko Korac has the word, so let the People's Messenger Goran Bogdanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, for a very short period of time, I will only say the basics. This assembly session is essentially superfluous. A resolution has already been passed once, which speaks of the integrity of the Serbian state, which did not, at the time, lead to any fundamental discussion of what policy has led to the fact that we have in Kosovo and whether we have the courage to say anything that could lead to a real solution, rather than leave it, as we essentially leave it, regardless of the great oath that this is in our hands, that the final status of Kosovo does not determine either Serbs or Albanians, but unfortunately the international community. What appears here in many speeches, even in the resolution itself, is that Kosovo is leaving because of the international community policy, and that is what I want to say. Kosovo is leaving because of the failure of a policy for which Serbia is absolutely responsible, and this is the failure of a 912-year-old policy. It was only at the last stage, its carrier was Slobodan Milosevic, who enthroned in the policy as the leader of all Serbs and with the policy suffered a collapse in the 99th year, when he signed a UN Security Council resolution in the war with NATO. Let's not blame others for the failures of Serbian politics. Why Kosovo has never been well integrated into Serbian society, it is a big and difficult topic, and it is not easy to answer, but the fact that this policy is primarily responsible for Belgrade. Neither between the two world wars, nor during communism after World War II, has Kosovo ever been fully integrated into Serbian society, and we are today paying the price of a huge historic failure in Serbian politics. It can be said that this delusion has cost many people and that we are now attending finally, unfortunately, the tragic epilogue of this policy, for which Belgrade is again primarily responsible. Just one more thing, if we say the situation in Kosovo is difficult, that a number of Serbs live hard, many Albanians also live hard. It is really painful and difficult to see people who score patriotic points here on that accident, shouting – I am for the survival of Kosovo in Serbia, we will never give Kosovo. And these same people were in power, which in 99 years signed the Kumanski Agreement and handed over governance to Kosovo's United Nations. Let's have at least a little respect for the citizens of Serbia who remember it. Those who participated in the policy at the time do not have the right to call on patriotism and threaten those who want to talk about the Kosovo problem in another way, which unfortunately is now going to the end. Just one more question, I don't see why this government, why this assembly should take responsibility for one historic failure, for which in the last round, Slobodan Milosevic and his authority are responsible for the failure of which we are now watching. Let us have the courage to have an open conversation about it and learn a lesson – what has missed Serbia's 912 policy. For starters, read what Dimitrije Tucovic was saying about the 912th year and the total Serbian politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4985	The People's Messenger Goran Bogdanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4986	Dear President of the Assembly, the Honorable President of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, today for Serbia Kosovo and Metohija is a question of the highest political, national and regional importance. Without the stability of Kosovo and Metohija, without a real solution that respects the interests of all citizens of the province, there is no stable and strong state of Serbia. There is therefore no necessary political stability in the entire Western Balkans region. Special Representative Martti Ahtisaari's proposal represents a very dangerous precedent, with unpredictable consequences for Serbia itself, and thus for the entire Western Balkans. However, the negotiating team, I must say, has proposed a compromise solution, i.e. Essential autonomy for Kosovo Albanians within the borders of the Serbian state. On the other hand, we had the maximum demands of Kosovo Albanians – independent Kosovo. So, Serbs and Serbia, at their request, should lose everything, while the other side gets everything. Neither Kosovo Serbs nor Serbia can accept such a solution. Such a solution can only be imposed, and no result of compromise. We believe that our option – essential autonomy – is closest to reason, compromise, long-term stability, and only ensures that all come out as winners of the negotiating process, both Kosovo Albanians, Kosovo Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian population, the states of Serbia, the EU and the entire international community. According to our proposal, which we held in all of the talks in Vienna, Kosovo Albanians were winners because they would get management mechanisms for their future through full internal self-government. Another winner would be Kosovo Serbs, who could use the education, social and health systems of the Serbian state through broad decentralisation and horizontal integration of municipalities. The third winner would be Serbia, which would not change borders, which would allow it to look towards the EU and the future, not the past. Also, I think with this proposal, the ideas of Europe and the principles of multiethnicity would finally triumph in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, both the EU and the entire international community would finally gain stability in the Western Balkans region. Dear MPs, we have always pointed out that we respect and respect the principles of the EU, which are the basis of our state and regional political orientation. That is why, in the process of resolving the final status of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia comes out of the positions set out in Resolution 1244, handling the principles of the Contact Group and, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act. Serbia's rights in Kosovo are not something that could disappear and that Serbia should give up the works of its territory. Of course, we have never had a unilateral approach, we have always pointed out that rights in Kosovo and in Serbia can have Albanians and others. Our approach to this is not unilateral and we will always do everything possible to ensure that Kosovo and Metohija, hence, and the state of Serbia, are a multiethnic and multi-ethnic society. Because forcing Serbia to reconcile with ethnic self-determination, or separatism to its harm, would have disastrous consequences throughout the region, but most of all for Serbia. That's why we ask that our rights be treated in the same way and under equal standards, and internationally protected. I think we should also send a very clear message from today's Assembly to the international community – that we want to live in a world that surrounds us, to build a strong and secure community, where there will be places for all ethnic communities living within the borders of the Serbian state. Dear MPs, this resolution that we are about to adopt today I think it sends a very clear message, primarily to Kosovo Albanians and the international community, that Serbia is not ready to give up its work of territory in Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbia is seeking to continue the negotiation process without artificially imposed deadlines, but also without undue delay, in order to reach a mutually acceptable solution within a reasonable time. The key incentive to continue negotiations should be given the most important international factors, i.e. actors, such as the Contact Group and the Permanent Security Council members, and that any decision on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija must be taken in the Security Council, because only through negotiations can we find a compromise and sustainable solution for Kosovo's future status, and only such a solution ensures peace and political stability and also enables economic prosperity and faster European integration of all countries in the region. We also need to send a very clear message – that Kosovo and Metohija are destroying the country with the largest multiethnic wealth in the region and punishing its democratic and pro-European policy. Kosovo and Metohija can be heard today, very often, from individual Albanian politicians that if there is no recognition of independence soon, there may be unrest, conflict. Because if the Albanian side, in that case, would go out of bounds just to avoid new riots and conflicts, then the logical question is whether the threat, violence, savagery beat inter-ethnic co-operation and tolerance, what are we in Serbia for? Today's situation in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is very difficult, tense, uncertain, Serbs continue to live in very difficult conditions, remains in Kosovo and Metohija there is no freedom of movement, no rule of law, no return. Serbs live in enclaves today, there is still fear and uncertainty about physical integrity, and any departure outside the enclaves can be fatal to Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The rule of law, unfortunately, is lagging behind when it comes to Serbs and other non-Albanians. Their property is usurped and unprotected, and it does not return either because of the lack of judicial response or because of the lack of judicial obligations, so today we have many houses, apartments, agricultural land, forests, which are usurped by Albanians and where all income is realised, unfortunately, by the Kosovo Albanians. Returning to Kosovo and Metohija takes place slowly or literally, it can be said, not at all. According to UNMIK, only 3% of Serbs have returned to Kosovo and Metohija in the last eight years. The main obstacle to the return of the Serb community or Serbs who were exiled in 99th and 17th March 2004 is a policy that, unfortunately, Albanian leaders are implementing above all. Because today a Serb who is due to return to Kosovo and Metohija must first get approval from local authorities, and we know well that local authorities today are made by Albanians. Today, no less cultural heritage is threatened in Kosovo and Metohija. I will remind you that, according to UNHCR, today we have 150 churches and monasteries of SPC destroyed, unfortunately 35 of them in the March pogrom in 2004. Of course, it is neither my intention nor my desire to abuse this speaker nor some demagogue here I am spilling out, but certainly very important for all Serbs, for those of us living down in these areas, is that there is unity of the State's negotiating team, that there is unity in Serbia to resolve KIM's final status and that there is a good will in all of us to finally start real negotiations, which, unfortunately, have not yet been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4987	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bozidar Delic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Jasmina Milosevic. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, today we are discussing two documents. One document we have, truth be told, waited a long time, and if today we were to discuss only him, our discussions would certainly be different. We were expecting this report on the work of our negotiating team, and in fact we only got one analysis of Ahtisaari's document. We had already had a chance to read this document from the press before, and I was more personally interested in the negotiation process, if at all there were conditions in which the atmosphere took place, the attitudes of different entities of the international community, the pressures, if there were them, on our team, and certainly there were. Of course, at the beginning of your work there were dissonant tones, pessimistic statements, inadequate reactions to state officials' statements, especially from those countries that we can call KIM kidnappers. It's a good thing that at a later stage of your work there's been a much bigger one, not to say complete, unity, and that must be practice in future work. Although you here say, quite shyly, that Serbia, together with Russia, has defended our sovereignty in this part of the negotiating process, concerning the KIM status, it would be true that Russia has preserved the sovereignty of Serbia through countless bilateral and other contacts through countless bilateral and other contacts, and thus the UN Charter and international law. If it wasn't for Russia's attitude, we wouldn't have anything to discuss in this room. Gentlemen, are you aware you're sitting on two chairs? You want Russia to continue to protect Serbia's interests, and you're simply flocking to the NATO Pact. I listened to the thinking of ordinary people, both Serbs and Russians. The trip to Europe is one question, although you have your own position on it. The SRS also has its position. But the NATO Pact is something that is unnatural, unreasonable and that pisses off our friends in Russia. I guess you can't ask them to tolerate at these decisive moments that we're holding sides with their opponents, not to tell their enemies. Never, gentlemen, in this further negotiating process, forget that Serbia has given countless victims throughout its history for the preservation of KIM. We who are in this room certainly must never forget these latest victims of 98 and 99: 530 soldiers, several hundred police officers and civilians and over 1,500 kidnapped people, almost without hope that one of them is still alive. Recently, a group of SRS MPs, with whom I was with, visited Kosovo's territory and especially Metohija's territory and stayed in all cities. With nearly 18,000 soldiers, several thousand police officers, there's no safety there. In particular, there is no security for Serbs. The international community there has failed to establish adequate administration and in almost all areas of social life is ruled by crime, anarchy and chaos. In KIM, the people were never poorer. You have a situation in which the Serb enclaves come to work for a five-euro salary, which has never been the case before. Simply, regardless of this hard stance by the Shipar, that they accept only independence, that part of the territory has no capacity to be independent and to be a state. Not only would that be a precedent, it would be the twilight of international law and that, gentlemen, you should point out in every situation. It would be the first criminal state in Europe, and it's also one of the arguments that you have to bear in mind. As far as the SRS is concerned, it will give you our full support when it comes to KIM, and in further negotiations. You must, gentlemen, insist more on Resolution 1244. All that was our obligation from that resolution we fulfilled, and most importantly, what was in our interest, has not yet been fulfilled. It is our request, as the SRS, that in the next negotiations you are just insisting that this resolution 1244 be fulfilled until the last letter, and only then to think about another resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4989	The People's MP Jasmina Milosevic has the word, and after that, the People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4990	I'm a little short of an opening statement, Mr. President is not here, but I still welcome him, Mr. Prime Minister, respected ministers, the presidency, present guests, of course, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the position of Single Serbia on the subject of KIM is fully clear. KIM has always been, is and will forever be part of the Republic of Serbia and we can only negotiate the degree of autonomy of Cosmeta within Serbia. We support this motion for a resolution and we will vote for it, because it is fully in the interest of our people and the Serbian state, and it is in agreement with all international documents, and above all with the UN Charter. I want to take the opportunity to once again, on behalf of the Unique Serbia, my coalition, and I hope all of us, thank the Russian Federation, which stood by us at the moment when we needed it and not only to protect our people and our country, but to protect the entire international law. Everyone in the world needs to know, especially the political world elite, the United States and individual EU members, that the question of KIM is indeed number one and that it must not be related to any other issue, which includes our European integration. I would like to say that we now have the opportunity to participate in the right negotiations and, as such, we must take advantage of it and draw attention to Kosovo Albanians who, thanks to Marty Ahtisaari's support, have seen the negotiations in Vienna as negotiations on the status of the Serb minority in an independent Kosovo. This is not possible because Serbs cannot be minorities in their own country. Secondly, if the topic of negotiations is status, in this sense independence can never be a compromise. It is therefore necessary that all participants in the negotiation process and, of course, the international body that will lead the negotiations in the beginning define what is the topic of the negotiations, because at this point, practically, we could not even talk, possibly about decentralisation, unless we know what is the final political status. Once again, to say that we support our resolution, we hope that it will vote to the end and that the reason is that it is in full agreement with our Constitution and protects our national and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4991	The word is by Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by Parliament MP Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4992	Dear citizens, honourable fellow MPs, I must not speak of this subject without paper. Respecting the geopolitical reality, I mean Russia that rises and America that is not in a position to take over the role of the world's only leading force, respecting the responsibility of belonging to the SRS, and using the reputation of this home and the right of the public word of this payphone, I want to tell you the following. There are those whose Kosovo and Metohija are far away and who will remain incomprehensible forever. There are those in the world, but there are also in Serbia. Those whose Kosovo and Metohija are far and incomprehensible, and from the world, are trying to be good to Albanians over our backs, treating it as the subject of a purchase contract, in which Serbia should not participate and should be aside. Those whose Kosovo and Metohija are far and incomprehensible, and from Serbia are, fortunately, modest influences and, to be more precise, I think they are insignificant. They think it doesn't matter that my native Vuchitrn is today called Vushtri, not as bilingual, but as an exclusive name. They think it doesn't matter that in this, my Vučitrn, there are no Serbs and no untidy graves today. They think in relation to their currently unhazarded house or apartment and shortsighted, self-lived, selfish. There are also those who have the importance of Kosovo and Metohija, its monasteries, natural treasures, reserves of coal, fertile countries, those who know the possibility of the market and sometimes the electoral body, which, for their reasons, love or benefit, will make a significant effort to preserve it. All of them should be respected and gathered. Now there are us, I am one of them, whose Kosovo and Metohija are life. We didn't choose where we'd be born. We didn't leave, we didn't run away until June 3, 1999. Me and myself, like that date, didn't go away, and we didn't run away, not as much as we were worth, and not as much as we didn't have anywhere, but because we believed it made sense to stay in Kosovo and that if we left, it wouldn't be worth anything more and it wouldn't make any more sense. And then, in 1999, for those they forgot, NATO bombings were imposed prematurely on peace, under poor conditions. Then, at a press conference, a spokesman for the Pentagon, Kenneth Bacon, told all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija -- Kosovo will not be a safe place for Serbs. He said Serbs could leave, but they could also risk survival. Today under the auspices of the West, the US administration and a significant part of Europe, Kosovo and Metohija today are truly a happy place for Serbs and for survival, and staying in Kosovo is a risk. It's the twilight of international law and the UN. More than 285,000 people from Kosovo and Metohija have the treatment of internally displaced, refugees, and I will say in one word, unhappy. There's a lot of buried from the disease that's caused by the bombing. Many of our loved ones, relatives, friends, who simply burst from grief to refugee camps or newly built and purchased apartments. What our old people would say is that we're broken from grief. How many graves did the church crash? My dear colleagues, they're not emotions, they're lives. They're people. These are individual human rights in the name of which America, with NATO, fought and terror over this people to preserve Albanian human rights, rights in the name of which Serbia was bombed. Today, even fruits are cut off in Kosovo and Metohija, dear friends. It's not to be readable because it's a Serbian trail. And every trace of Serbia, of Serbian property, needs to be suppressed. Today we are exposed to the open cynicism of global thugs who promote war as peace, slavery as freedom, ignorance as power. Today, the obedience of smaller ones is assumed, and humility is considered a common form of practical approach to life. These masters of the world ask us, "Will you then be hostages of moral prejudice, while other peoples take boldly, with swift steps towards a better future, with well-paid work and a comfortable life?" But, dear friends, what right should it be for anyone to ask that me and many like me to give up our homeland, our hometown, the graves of our ancestors, ourselves? Where did America get the right to trade in Kosovo and Metohija, sell others on behalf of and allegedly for human rights? On behalf of what is the future of Albanian children born in Kosovo and Metohija important, and it is not important for the future of Serbian, Roma, Turkish, mountain children born until 99? Where is the universality of human rights? The Russians saved our hope this time. We know what we have to do on our own. It is known what the state must do in the name of the future and in the name of self-respect. The great Russian Dostoevsky says - how to live, think and wonder in the West, and we say why to live. It's worth living for, and that's my answer, and that's the obligation of the state, you who exercise power on behalf of all of us citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4993	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic. After that, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go, Mr. Whitey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4994	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, history has taught us that great powers have always achieved their political and every other goal at the expense of small states and people, and as the people say, the power of God has never prayed. The Serbian people paid dearly for such a political doctrine, especially in the last two centuries. From revolution 1804, to the last religious-civil war, in the premises of the former common state, more than 3,000,000 people died. It's an entire nation. That's why there was this syntagma that Serbs were winning wars, but that there were losers in peace. Every postwar time was devising the efforts of war and the sacrifices suffered, and it has imposed new governmental efforts on the submerged generations. History has also taught us how national state interests can still be defended without losing neither national dignity nor historical identity. First of all, it is a wise state policy, which, by diplomatic means and by the power of fact, will make friends in the world, or gain allies. It is difficult to understand something that is completely understandable in itself: that this truth and justice, which are undoubtedly on the side of independent and sovereign Serbia and which, by earthly and God's justice, belongs to Kosovo and Metohija, is not sufficient argument for world powers. It is difficult to understand why, when it comes to Serbia, the highest international legal documents and standards are not respected and are considered to be the cradle of parliamentaryism and democracy. As much as Serbia's efforts to continue negotiations that would satisfy both the Serbian and Albanian sides, those who support Kosovo and Metohija's independence ignore some essential facts, and above all that it is about kidnapping 15% of the territory from an independent and sovereign state. It is also ignored that there are no elementary conditions for living together, i.e. that violence against the Serbian and non-Albanian populations is constantly being waged in order to create ethnically clean space. The figures are inexorable, and they say 988 people were killed from January 1st 1998 to June 10th 1999, 987 people were kidnapped, of which 155 were Serbian nationalities. Those faces were most likely killed. From June 10, 1999 to 31.12. In 2006, 6,377 ethnically motivated attacks on Serbs were registered and 588 Serbs were killed. The total number of kidnapped or missing Serbs and non-Albanians in the period from 1 January 1998 to 31.12.2006 is 1,444, out of the company 1,144 people of Serbian nationality. The support of individual states, and before all of the Russian Federation, Serbia's efforts to move ahead with international law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to negotiate and thus bring about a fair solution to the problem of Kosovo's final status and Metohija, gives hope that justice and justice will overcome the naked force. One more thing, I hope, we learned from the teacher of life, which is that in all difficult times for one country, the greatest degree of unity of all the factors that affect state policymaking is necessary. How many areas today where unity is the main motive of the people's soul and how many people we are today with the strongest national consciousness in the Balkans, as Jovan Cvijic wrote in 1907. If we are able to understand the messages of ancestors and learn lessons from the past, if we can overcome the negative traits of the nation, such as negligence and oblivion, if we are aware of responsibility in front of the offspring, then we will also endure in this severe righteous struggle and again, we will say fatefully for both the people and the state. Let me also point to another important segment that just seems to be of secondary importance. It is necessary to correct the teaching content of national history as an essential prerequisite for the proper education of those who will come after us, because if they do not know why Kosovo is the most expensive Serbian word, as our poet put it, will have neither the obligation nor the reason to defend it nor to fight for it. With full support for the motion for a resolution, New Serbia also supports all the efforts the state has made so far and is investing in preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4995	Thank you, Mr. Whitey. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I'm not sure that some parties from the ruling coalition truly support this resolution. Because how to interpret what the president of Serbia said, and for what happened, what we are currently trying to do about Kosovo and Metohija, blamed Milosevic's violent policy. I can't believe the President of the Republic isn't familiar with some things, but his attitude is absolutely consistent. If you ask Ceku, Madlen Albright, Bill Clinton or anyone else, everyone will list Slobodan Milosevic and say that the problem with Kosovo and Metohija occurred at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. The basic question arises – is the Prizren League because of Slobodan Milosevic, does the president of the Republic remember Serbian Consul Milan Rakic's report, which he sent to Istanbul, about the crimes of Albanians on Serbian lives? Do you remember 915th and the crimes of Albanians against the Serb army that retreated? Has Milosevic's policy also led to a rebellion in 45th year, 80th? No, I don't. It should be clear to all of us that the desire of Albanians to create a new Albanian state in Kosovo and Metohija and definitely try to create great Albania. But if we accept these things, then we support what they want to accomplish. And that senseless propaganda has been clapping citizens of Serbia and the whole world for almost 20 years, but we have to resist it. Mr. Samardzic, you filed a report with the motion for this resolution. I think the report could have been summed up in one single sentence – there was no negotiation. It's an indisputable fact. You know it best. Did you have a chance to negotiate with the Albanians at all? You're not. Those negotiations were not even 98. They were neither in Pristina, when representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia left, nor in Rambuje. The negotiations are a farce, a scenario that Americans came up with to bring Serbia into a situation in which it will justify all actions against Serbia. Here, we negotiate without negotiation. Serbia will be represented as responsible, because negotiations allegedly did not lead to results. But there are no negotiations, nor will there be any negotiations. That's the thing you have to tell the citizens of Serbia. In the resolution, you say that any solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija will have to come from these basic positions of the Charter of the United Nations, Resolution 1244 etc. Tell me, when will you insist on implementing Resolution 1244? What date is that? Here, it's been eight years since Resolution 1244. Has anything been done since then? Remember, there were 280 standards. How many are there today? Not a single one. How is it possible that everything that should apply to Serbs is not valid for all others? He says, any attempt at a solution that would violate these basic principles would be declared null and dangerous by the survival of the state and would be a cause for the proper functioning of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of action? What would they do? What do you promise Serbian citizens today that you will do in case that happens? Why don't you show us what Serbia needs to do today? Do you think that by doing all the tasks of the United States all the time, we're going to achieve that to prevent independence of Kosovo and Metohija? No, on the contrary, they won't give it up. They need to be made clear and steps should be taken to make it clear that Serbia has answers to this. Serbia can expand its co-operation with Russia and with other friendly states. If the NATO Pact builds military bases in Bulgaria and Romania, which should have five-six thousand troops, if it has Bondsteel base, why don't we and the Russians make some military deal and then knock out their military bases. Why wouldn't what Americans can do fit us to work with the Russians? Why don't you just let it know? Why, among other things, did you not propose another resolution in the proposal for this resolution? The resolution of thanks to Russia's firm and principled stance, because only thanks to their stance on Kosovo and Metohija today is not independent. The least we could do was make this assembly a resolution like that. You say the Republic of Serbia is ready to start a new phase of negotiations with representatives of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. And who are you negotiating with? With Agim Ceku? He's a war criminal. He's a direct war criminal and those war crimes were committed in the Medak pocket. With Thaci? With Thaci, he's also a criminal and a criminal. Just to hand you Ramush Haradinaj and get the job done. Why are you humiliating yourself? You are looking for appropriate talks on the other hand, because I am sure when the Albanians realize they will have to find a solution in negotiations with Serbs, they will go that way. As long as they think and America convinces them that she's going to end this thing, they're not going to give it up, but you're going to help that happen. Don't accept everything the Americans ask of you. You say in point 4, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is watching that a new United Nations Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija... What new resolution? What did you do, ask you again, in Resolution 1244? What about the limited number of soldiers and police officers who, according to that resolution, should return to Serbia's borders? What about the evasive and evicted faces? Well, the whole world is being protected by a supposed humanitarian disaster, because I don't know how many instructions, what number of refugees. You know that more than 380,000 Serbs have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija. How many have returned today? How many crimes have been committed today against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? What a new resolution you're looking for. You're asking for the execution of the one that's already been brought in. Every next resolution, I'm afraid it will sort of derogate Resolution 1244. You say the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also requires that the Secretary-General of the United Nations take all the measures at its disposal. Well, it's just amazing. Do you remember Butros Butros Gally when he left his post, what he said about U.S. policy and the UN, as a maid who performs so-called all the warrants? What about Kofi Annan? Do you remember that he was a UN representative in Republika Srpska, who was, among other things, under the protection of the UN? What happened: Flash and Storm in Republika Srpska. The greatest ethnic cleansing since World War II. He was rewarded for it and became secretary general. What do you want from this new Ban Ki Moon? Nothing, 'cause he's gonna execute warrants like his predecessors. You say the National Assembly believes unilateral recognition of Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence would have inconceivable consequences for regional stability. Not only regional stability, but what you as a state can and should do. It is not only in the world that Kosovo and Metohija are the neural point, in which there are problems and which should be solved exclusively so that no one in the world can apply the same principle. That's impossible. So you have the Transnistria, the South Ossetia, the Caucasus, you have the Baskia, Catalonia, South Tyrol, Ireland, Transylvania. You have a problem trying to create a Kurdish state on the premises of several states. Which simply does not make it clear that if this applies to Kosovo and Metohija, it will also apply to us, that we as a state will recognise these territories. When he can do it for Serbia then he can do it for other territories. These are the answers that the country finds and are not so weak. These are serious answers, but if we are a serious state and if you are a serious government, that wants to do everything to protect Kosovo and Metohija. You see, ever since you came to power, since October 5th, you systematically, in every way possible, besides the destruction of our army, and every thought of defending Kosovo and Metohija you rise to the pillar of shame, you mention war again, you want destruction, you want this, you want this, you want that. But that right is only taken away from Serbia and the Serbian people. Do you remember what happened a few years ago when a group in Texas tried to fight for the independence of Texas? You remember how the American state and the American president, in the most democratic way possible, solved the issue. However, those who tried to do so today are no longer alive. I'm not asking us to do that, but I'm asking the Serbian government to do everything possible to make it clear that Kosovo and Metohija's independence is out of the question. One more thing to ask you, Mr. Samardzic, the new team that is to be, is this where you predicted that the government would appoint this new team, would it be Mr. Leon Cohen? If he won't, you know perfectly why he won't participate in the team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4997	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4998	Mr. President of the State, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, I will say one first, let me say, unnecessary sentence. You've already heard that the DSS will support this resolution, but I just want to add one of my personal views to it. I think the proposed text of the resolution is very, very good. If I were to say that I had an assignment to write a resolution like this, this is how I would write it. The text is good because it points out certain basic things, which do not depend on who the Prime Minister is and who the Prime Minister is, or which parties are in power, which are in opposition, but simply defines a long-standing position that we will consistently and always advocate the integrity and territorial sovereignty of our country, which, if you will, is a completely natural right. But the text is good for some other reason, which is why we suggest that everything else could be the opening of one of Pandora's boxes with inconceivable consequences. However, in this House we have heard and regrettable that we have not accepted Marty Ahtisaari's plan. For those of you who think so, I have to mention something that most in this room know very well, and that's this terrible, dreary statistics of what's been happening in Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. Thousands of Serbs and non-Albanians, expelled 226,000 people, destroyed tens of thousands of houses, destroyed 146 monasteries, ethnically cleaned three-quarters of Kosovo and Metohija territory, so that the civilization's pledge to build a multiethnic society in such conditions seems totally cynical. Then it is right to ask whether anyone who is not satisfied with the state he is living in can, not choosing the means, so also with a rifle in his hand, to make his new state. Of course, the answers we unfortunately received from some politicians in the world are that to God's Kosovo and Metohija is a unique case. Well, you know, it's worth a little look in history, some politicians called Anschlus Austria in 1936 a unique case, so they also called it a unique case, and then it all ended the way it ended. There have been objections here that in Resolution 5, we use some inappropriate words, specifically to request from the UN Member States and to ask the secretary general; imagine what we require, so we demand that they respect the Charter of the same UN and demand that they respect the Resolution, not only 1244 but all other international documents adopted by the same UN. I have to add something, though, and I wish I was wrong. I am afraid that behind the requirement to quickly gain Kosovo and Metohija's independence, there is also a desire to introduce instead of an international order in the organisation of the UN, instead of an international right that is now in force, something that reminds me terribly of what was once called "Pax Romana". Let me remind you, at the time of the destruction of the Roman Empire, the authorities came up with this term for actually applying the most cruel military force and terror in the territory of the Roman Empire. And it ended the way it ended. Finally, because of those who think that we have already lost Kosovo, because of those who think that justice and law are not arguments, because of those who think that Resolution 1244 mummified "artefact", because of those who want what has happened to the blockade in the Kosovo status process - there has been a blockade, though, but only the blockade of the rapid acquisition of independence of Kosovo and I think that this type of blockade is good - therefore, because of all of those that say that it is not our division here on the parties, it is not our division of the congregation's majority or congregation minority, it is not our division of patriots and nepatiotes, our division is much more serious, our division is about the attitude towards basic human values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u4999	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, after which the MP Vladan Vukicevic will follow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present my presentation on behalf of the SRS. According to available historical data, Serbs were a majority population before the 14th century, and at that time the Roma had a settlement in almost all villages and cities in Kosovo and Metohija, which is confirmed by numerous historical documents and many scientific research. Following the Kumanovo Agreement on the withdrawal of Serbian military and police forces in 1990, major violence against Serbs, Roma and other non-Albanian lives took place. A huge number of Roma, who had their settlements on 21 municipalities, had to leave Kosovo and Metohija's territory. They suffered ethnic cleansing and faced numerous consequences and measures implemented. Since the introduction of an international protectorate in the province, 120,000 Roma, with Serbs and other non-Albanian lives, have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija, and are still internally displaced persons in central Serbia, have sought asylum requirements in the west. These same Roma deport themselves back to Kosovo and Serbia every day because of the signing of the readmission agreement. Those who remain in Kosovo and Metohija, despite persecution, discrimination, pressures, live extremely hard in fear for themselves, their families and their future are completely uncertain. Their freedom of movement is often drastically limited, unemployment is enormous, poverty is large, defeated by all consequences, for individuals as well as for entire families. In such a case, political tension is inevitably rising, the nice words of Albanian politicians from Pristina mean nothing unless they have the right willingness to return to Serbian, Roma and all other non-Albanian communities the rights and freedoms that were taken from them after 1990. It suggests that they must be equal participants at all international conferences that decide on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Only in this way can the rights and future of the Roma in Kosovo and Metohija be guaranteed. It is therefore necessary that Roma representatives living in Kosovo and Metohija, who have the status of displaced persons, be represented in all negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status. Serbia's Roma generally reject anyone's plan for Kosovo's secession, first because the plan ends the territory of the Republic of Serbia and directly violates the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, then in his report, Martti Ahtisaari did not give his assessment of the situation in the negotiations on the situation of Roma in Kosovo and Metohija. Former UN Secretary-General for the Kosovo future status process Martti Ahtisaari should have in mind the postulate of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, which affirms the basic principles and freedoms of every man, regardless of ethnic and religious origin, principles established in the International Charter of Civil and Political Rights of 1976, the International Charter on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as well as Security Council Resolution 1244, which requires the protection and improvement of human rights for Serbs and all minority communities in Kosovo, the safe and secure return of all refugees, displaced persons, as well as the security of public security and order, with full protection, freedom of movement of all residents. He did not take into account the practical state of the Kosovo-Methohic society and its institutions. The absence of multiethnic tolerance, elemental human rights and freedoms, the lack of development of multiethnic parliamentary life and political structures, the lack of visible and verifiable readiness of political parties and Kosovo Albanian leaders for dialogue and communication, in conditions of elemental economic indevelopment and major social uncertainty that make up uncertain everyday life. The Kosovo and Metohija status proposal annuls the equality of Serbs, national communities, favours other national communities, such as Albanians, by establishing the majority principles of institution formation in decision-making bodies. If the national communities are not equal in the draft plan, if they are not even equal when the final proposal on Kosovo's status is concluded, if a direct conversation with representatives of national communities is rejected, what equality can be counted on in the application of the plan? I'm amazed that's how they approach political solutions. It's about our rights, whether we go back to Kosovo and Metohija from the West about 100,000 Roma, or we can stay with our countrymen to live in peace, work and work, preserve and return our usurped assets. It is about whether we will have institutions that will function, through which we will defend our interests and exercise our rights. Mr. Marty Ahtisaari's plan does not provide that, but rather the opposite. The plan they recommend does not require us to leave Kosovo to meet the aspirations of the majority Albanian population and Western democracy. Consistently with the Security Council Resolution, which rejected Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and that on behalf of human rights they would not allow the rights of others to be disproved and the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the territory of a sovereign state, to be broken, recognised members of the Security Council. We want a document that provides equality, we want a document by which we will not live in the ghetto, we want a document that protects us from national assimilation, Albanianization, we want to go back to our centuries-old hearths, we want to stay in Kosovo and Metohija, and we live as a free and equal people. Our proposals do not endanger any national community, they defend equality, common life in peace, multiethnic, multi-confessional Kosovo. We appeal to the UN, the Security Council, the Council of Europe and the great world powers to advocate a solution that provides equality and equality for all citizens and national communities, to provide a solution that can organise life in peace, to ensure Kosovo's development within the existing border of the Serbian state. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words. Even before 2000, SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj and then visionaries were, and then we looked at more national and national interests, we did not look at our personal interests and political interests. Then we sought a confederation with Russia and Belarus, which was very significant. However, many political parties laughed at this proposal, that we were making up for Serbia, that we were not going to Europe. But you see what this Europe wants, it wants to take away some of our territory. I just want to tell you that the confederacy was very important, if it were very important it had been true these days, because if it hadn't been for Russia as a world force, Kosovo would have gone away, no one would have saved us Kosovo. This is what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5001	According to the Rules of Procedure? I have a solution for you, Mr. Riza Halimi. No one has any intention of discriminating you. Your task force has wasted its time. I suggest that in the end, given that there are 10 minutes left for the head of your parliamentary group, you express your position in those 10 minutes. Everyone must express their attitude in this congregation, including you, and we care about it. Do you agree? Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5002	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Prime Minister and President of the State, one of the most serious tasks for every nation, for every country and for every government, is to preserve the integrity of its territory. There is no more serious and brighter task than that task. A decades-old irresponsible policy has led Serbia into this position today. There is almost no political leader, a political party that has not addressed the issue of resolving Kosovo and Metohija in the past decade. As a result of all these political developments, this policy is today a state of affairs. Deeply aware that Serbia is facing a major problem, that in the past, it has lost many friends in the world, that it has received enemies from friends, and that it is struggling to preserve its integrity, we are aware that the task for this government is one of the biggest exams. But it can't be just a test for the government, it has to be a test for one people, it has to be a test for all politicians and for all those people who, by their rhetoric, by doing or by doing it, can do this country good or bad. Many here swear to unity, stress their desire to support it, and of course, we've had opportunities to keep listening: we support it, but we criticise it. Well, there's no such unity when it's a matter of this importance and there's no criticism when it comes to the preservation of a country's territory. What we've heard, certain criticisms of the Resolution, I don't think it stands, for one simple reason. Neither the government nor the state can get out to the point in one resolution and discover strategy and tactics as to how and how they will defend their territory. This resolution will be in the press tomorrow. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as Bishop Nikolai said, "God forbid the Serbs agree, multiply and worship." When we realize that, when we have a complex Serbia, but truly a complex Serbia, when we have strong Serbia and we have believing Serbia, I will trust Serbia in myself, I will trust Serbia in the future, then we will also preserve our territory and, of course, make prosperous, healthy, strong Serbia, in which to live much better and better than we are living today. I cannot understand those advocates who advocate and believe that it is necessary to listen to that part of the international public or that part of European countries that, in a desire to do and to meet the national minority, want to take away 15% of the territory from a sovereign state. I don't understand these people, for the simple reason that we all have to be deeply aware that in KIM Serbs live more than a thousand years. In those thousand years, there have been many Liberation Wars, many victims have fallen, and this whole territory is watered in Serbian blood, and none of us have the right to think, let alone publicly say, that we should leave that territory to someone else. Therefore, in the hope that we will understand the message of Bishop Nikolai, I want to finish -- God forbid the Serbs agree, multiply and worship, and with faith in God, with such Serbia we will also have the preserved integrity of our country, Kosovo will be a happy and prosperous country of Serbia. What I think should be a recommendation to people who are negotiating and who will talk, that Kosovo is another cereal, that there is no progress and improvement in Serbia by losing Kosovo. The international community may not understand what a cradle is, but it knows what is material. We must not lose that grain and that mineral treasure, we must never forget that Serbia has paid the expensive price of the Serbian people in Kosovo. Therefore, there is no progress, there is no improvement for the Serbian people, if we lose these 15% of the territory. That's why it's a sacred duty for this government and for all those people who participate to preserve that territory. I hope so. New Serbia is heartily supporting this resolution and this government, wishing and hoping that we will quickly get healthy, strong, modern Serbia in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5003	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Zvonko Mihajlovic, and let the MP Vladimir Milentijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the distinguished representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church, allow me to begin today's presentation with a Persian teaching story that says: he met a knight on the road of a sparrow, lying on his back, with scissors stretched out from heaven. A strange knight asked him, what's he doing here? And the sparrow said unto him, Knowest thou not that this day heaven shall be polluted upon the earth? The knight smiled and said, "Do you think you can keep the sky with your feet and save the earth?" "Let every man do what he can," answered the bold sparrow. Just like in that story, announcements about resolving KIM's final status are coming from all sides. That's what we're talking about all over the world. Many would like to do "good" to Serbia by kidnapping 15% of its territory, only somehow in Serbia to keep quiet and avoid the topic. Finally, we experience her coming to the agenda. Many in the country and abroad in KIM see only 15% of Serbian territory and nothing more. They need to know that these 15% of the territory was created by the Serbian state, spirituality, Serbian culture, several centuries before Christopher Columbus will engage in some new research and find a country today that leads the worst foreign policy and whose goals justify the worst possible means. Speaking of goals, one logical question arises. Why is there so much interest in such a superpower for such a small space, which is otherwise far from its borders? The answer is familiar. The exceptional importance of the territory and space of Cosmeta is seen in the geopolitical, geostrategic, military, geographical and economical respect, as the central Balkan space of crossing significant roads and centuries of meeting east and west, as well as the central space of the entire Serbian ethnic corpus in spiritual, cultural and material terms, representing the Serbian fortress in the Balkans, which was historically difficult, but very important in the historic quest for conquering forces. The KiM occupation represents a "flipboard" of the West for economic destabilization of the entire Balkan region and Eastern Europe, but also allows the West to further expand and penetrate the East. The KiM territory is also a well-studden and good basis for criminalising the entire Balkan region. Namely, after supporting the terrorist-mafia organization, so-called The KLA, the installation of NATO forces in Kosovo, was followed by the process of creating a puppet government of Kosovo, made up of all terrorists, whose ultimate goal is to create a mafia state, as is created by an existing, neighbouring Albanian state, and all under the patronage of the US administration. That's how KIM would be created, from former terrorist, and now quasi-political factors, one mafia state, which should exist and operate on drug trafficking, weapons, prostitution and other serious criminal activities. When I mentioned to Albania, I must say that the Albanian congregation, the only one in the whole world, who has already confessed to a phantom, non-existent so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. It also allowed the use of its territory to accept and train terrorists, who then infiltrate KIM, and also the Albanian army supplies them with weapons and equipment. To make evil bigger, Albania is not the only country in the neighbourhood that has territorial claims towards Serbia. Many wonder what the interest of the United States of America is to create another Muslim terrorist state in the heart of Europe, while on the other hand fighting against Islamic fundamentalism, regardless of what Serbia and the United States were once allies. This example best says that relations between states are not a permanent constant and that there is no love and friendship anymore but exclusively interests. America knows that Europe cannot control the infiltration of Islam in Europe alone, and therefore the US military presence is still necessary to provide "good" services to Europe. I think it will be too late for many European countries to understand this game. You know what the ratio of natality - mortality in France right now - 1:1; one Frenchman dies, one Muslim is born. America and the leading European Union countries are trying to impose a sixth-largest resolution by brutally violating the UN's highest legal act, Resolution SB 1244, which would impose a concept of supervised independence on the three-year period, with international supervision, after which the final political status would be determined. UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari's special envoy has already routed in that direction. But that's why he charged his services fat. As I live in KIM, I am personally aware that a good part of UNMIK administration officials is ultimately corrupt, and that every decision they make is in favour of Albanians. I am therefore convinced that Ahtisaari has indeed received 40m euros from the Albanian mafia. And that's the same money that the Ship's Mafia earns by selling drugs mainly on the Western European market. So it poisons the youth of Western European countries to pay their politicians to achieve their goals. Unheard of, indeed. Serbia knows by which way the historic opportunity to defend the international legal order, an international world order based on the principles of multinationalism and multiculturalism, is again indicated. It also defends international organisations and the global international order, and ultimately Serbia defends the most sacred for Europe, the civil order and the European citizen. Russia, as a great force awakening from sleep, is aware that Serbia is on the right track and, according to its strength, stands on the Serbian side, on the side of truth, justice and justice. Therefore, there is nothing left for Serbia but to turn to Russia as soon as possible and find common interest with the Russians. And in the end, I would only like to convey to you the resolve of Serbs, who, despite their indifferences, remain to live in Cosmet, that at no cost will leave their eternal hearths and will defend them at the cost of life. I am proud to be a part of them and live in Kosovo and Metohija, and I am thus giving my modest contribution to the defence of Serbian national interests. And as at the beginning of my discussion, as the bold sparrow said, let every man do what he can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5005	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next MP, would you perhaps agree to let MP Riza Halimi take advantage of his 10 minutes, which his MP group has? The word is Riza Halimi, and let the People's Messenger Vladimir Milentijevic be prepared. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5006	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, I've changed a lot of things from the intention I had to say at first. I must first conclude that if the goal was to homogenise the political atmosphere in Serbia, it was also reached in the previous session of February 14th. I don't see anything new. Where the ruling parties and the main opposition party agree, I don't see where there is greater unity, and why this frustration that there is no unity with Serbs? I don't think that stands at all, and even here there's a lot of critical thinking about really serious problems. There is not enough new approach to solving and how sensitive problems that plague us are not now, but a long period of time. Tonight, unfortunately, we came back in the '80s, tireads from that time, and newspaper articles and TV shows, in a small concentration this evening we listened again. We know at all this homogenization, this indoctrination, which has ended, what catastrophes in our space have ended. Now what? We have a situation, with honorable exceptions, as if it were forgotten here, which is why the Kumanian Agreement was signed, which is why we have Resolution 1244. Well, because of the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo, when an exodus of 800,000 Albanians towards Macedonia and Albania came out of exile. You mentioned BBC and other international news and information agencies. These are documents known from that time. If this parliament does not want to see it, then it is a serious problem and it is absolutely a big problem if after so much time and such experience, that the highest representatives, the highest authority of one country, are not taking this experience into account and is not trying based on this experience to have a new approach in solving the social, social and political problems that plague the country over a long period of time. Now, in this respect, I'm asking one question. We have been saying all along that we want to join the EU, regardless of the exceptions we would make with Belarus and Cuba. But all the time we've been saying that the goal, the serious goal of all Balkan peoples, is to engage in European flows and European processes. There is a resolution waiting here to include the European Community in solving the more efficient problem of Kosovo citizens, citizens' life problems, and we are now, in some sense, euphorically realizing that we have managed to prevent this - to prevent the resolution of life problems and Serbs, and Roma, of course, the majority Albanian people in the area. So where the logic is to reject what all parts of Europe, and those who have just entered and those who are waiting for order, they are always insisting on integration into European flows, and we are persistently refusing and boasting about this rejection. Where does that make sense? I think it's been said here for a while, he says, 15 percent of the room and the cereal. So who's going to create that cereal? Is there going to be a cereal room alone if there aren't people, if we're not dealing with people's problems at all? Where are the people in our politics? What about the people who are in the field? Do we have to deal with that? When I see this report, for the first time today I have seen it, imagine Ahtisaari proposes a double majority in the adoption of the most important laws for Kosovo, the minority of all the most important laws, and our team has asked for a triple majority, because there is no trust, if there are 20 MPs provided, not based on results, of 120 - 20 MPs, where 10 would be Serbs, 10 from other minorities. So what now? No, when they come out, the Serbs will be 11 or 12 plus. You know there were 32 minority MPs, 22 Serbs and 10 others in the first session. So what now? He says in the government's material: both the Constitution and all the laws are not good at deciding whether to accept, 10 from other minorities, so without Serbs, they can't. And if they go to the election another 12, so without six-seven Serbs and the rest of the minority representatives, they can't accept those laws. Now he says, not a double but a triple majority, in particular the president of Kosovo and the laws to give consent -- a club of minorities, a club of Serbs and then a club of majority MPs. Imagine, so it's not enough double, it's nowhere in the world, it's looking for a triple majority, and it's actually just to refuse, because there's no serious logic that these really impossible things, where there's no such thing in the world, but in my view, it's too much logic that it's just a smooth rejection of what the international community provides, and we're going absolutely prolonging suddenly. What do we get by prolonging? Where's the end? How life's problems are solved, if we boast of the Russian veto, rather than going to solve the life problems of citizens in Kosovo. I think that's the point. I think it is high time that, in co-operation with the international community, because if not Albanians and Serbs throughout the 20th century had the opportunity to resolve mutual disputes, then it is absolutely time for the international community to simply say the point, more of these misunderstandings, more of the tragedy, more of the humanitarian disasters can't be in the 21st century, but we will go human and for Europeans to decide in Europe, let Putin solve its problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5007	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Milentijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5008	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this high house on the agenda today has a review of the State Negotiation Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on the negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007, with a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair settlement of the issue of Kosovo's autonomous province and Metohija based on international law. This point is divided into two documents in its contents. The first document is a report by the state negotiating team on the leading final negotiations in Vienna, and the second document is a proposal for a fourth resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The February 14th resolution renewed its mandate to the National Negotiating Team and obliged it to represent the already adopted policy and fundamental position of defence of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the rights and interests of the Serb people and the Serbian Orthodox Church in the province, the preservation of the entire Serbian religious and cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the protection of the interests of non-Albanian communities. Acting in line with the mandate defined by the resolution, the State Negotiating Team has consistently represented all positions on the negotiations in Vienna and today submitted a comprehensive and objective report on how the negotiations were under way, and the report is acceptable regardless of the outcome and should be adopted. Obviously, no real, objective and essential negotiations were held, as the UN Security Council Special Envoy, Mr Ahtisaari, directly violates Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, kidnaps 15% of its territory and creates another Albanian state in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the Serbian Parliament has also decided to reject all the views set out in the Ahtisaari proposal that violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. All officials of the Republic of Serbia have rejected such a proposal because they unequivocally protect the interests of only one party, Pristina's interests. Thus rejected by the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ahtisaari submitted to the Security Council for adoption. The proposal was resolutely opposed by the Russian Federation because it is not a compromise between the two sides and in the future it will reject any proposal that does not agree with both sides in the negotiations, and in the event that there is a vote in the Security Council of the United Nations Russia will impose veto law. Meanwhile, on a proposal from the United States and some Western countries, six new resolutions have been proposed, which Serbia has resolutely rejected because of the time of the negotiations and subsequently activates Ahtisaari's proposal that envisions Kosovo and Metohija's independence. All six proposals have been withdrawn because, besides Russia, China, South Africa and Indonesia joined in, meanwhile, with serious reserves under the motion for a resolution. The first round of negotiations with Mr. Marty Ahtisaari has been completed and failed. We now expect a second round of negotiations, with a new negotiator, without a time limit for the duration of the negotiations, without imposing a solution, but a solution to come up with a compromise by both sides, in line with Resolution 1244. Such an acceptable solution for both sides to define a new United Nations Security Council resolution. Until then, Resolution 1244 remains in force, under which Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a new resolution is quite acceptable, especially the first point that says Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of Serbia's state, based on valid and general constitutional and international documents. As well as another point, at which the Republic of Serbia is ready to launch a new phase of negotiations on finding the most favourable solution that will satisfy both sides in Kosovo and Metohija. We Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija are urging all parliamentary parties to vote for the adoption of the resolution and to achieve through the necessary unity in resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status, as Serbia's higher priority so far has not been since the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, this is not a new battle in Kosovo. No Lazar, no Obilic, no Kosovo girl, but unfortunately Serbia still has its Brankovics. So I pray to God that after more than 600 years, you will hear Lazarus' curse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5009	Thank you. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5010	Ladies and gentlemen, what we're discussing today, or tonight, was supposed to be on the agenda of this assembly much earlier, we should have had better texts, we had more specific tasks for parliament to the government and the negotiating team. I remind you that the SRS parliamentary group submitted a motion to the National Assembly a month and a half before the government of the Republic of Serbia to vote for a resolution on the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. We waited for the government, or the negotiating team to prepare for us and this report, which is actually not significant, and if that's all we've been waiting for, then it really wasn't some reason to wait. You have heard from Serbian Radical Party MPs, mostly, the remarks we have on this text of the resolution. Also, let me draw your attention to those of our most significant remarks. First of all, we think that the resolution should have been more concrete, as should any act coming out of parliament, to be very specific and not to leave much opportunity neither for application nor for abuse, but to know that it is exactly how it is adopted in the National Assembly. That's why it's incomprehensible for us to say that you didn't in this motion for a resolution predict Halstein's doctrine yes. Why have you left out to speak out loud and clear what I am convinced of, and you think and plan to do, if you don't think we're doing this for free today, to end diplomatic relations with every country that eventually unilaterally recognises Kosovo and Metohija. You did not specify a specific retortion application. I would like to remind you that this resolution should stand, let's say, if Bosnia and Herzegovina comes to mind to recognise Kosovo's independence, that the Republic of Serbia will immediately recognise the independence of Republika Srpska. Or, let's say, if Croatia comes to terms with recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence, that Serbia will immediately recognise the independence of Republika Srpska and recognise the official government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile. Of course, they're not the only objections where you haven't specifically stated your position. For example, in this resolution, a provision should also be found where it would appear that Serbia will never recognise any documents that would have been brought into potentially independent Kosovo, which, for example, there is only secession, or self-proclaiming, independence, which is already in the announcements. First of all, when I say this, I mean passports, so we can make sure that, if it happened eventually, there wouldn't be any transit through Serbia. We have to stop just telling stories, we have to be concrete, the Shipari in Kosovo, the representatives of the European Union, and the Americas who are for the secession of Kosovo, need to know exactly what the state of Serbia will do, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do, of course, on the basis of what is assigned to it in this Parliament. If Shyptari can go out with any threats at any moment, even with weapons and self-declaration and so forth, we are afraid to just be concrete and to say what any normal state would say, for the sake of protecting its territorial integrity, clearly and loudly. At least you should have prescribed another part of this resolution that we have submitted to you and that at no cost will the Republic of Serbia or any of its state bodies accept, will oppose the separation of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia or its division. Resolution 1244 was not clearly mentioned and not sufficiently clearly described in this motion for a resolution. It had to say that Kosovo and Metohija can't be discussed at all. The status of Kosovo and Metohija has been established by Resolution 1244 and we have nothing to talk to anyone about. For us, it's just a clean and done thing. That was supposed to stand in this resolution. Also, you did not write, you did not foresee that a negotiating team should be banned from negotiating under the auspices of some European countries that clearly advocated independent Kosovo or, for example, God forbid, under the auspices of your friend Javier Solana. It had to be in this resolution, too. Mr Tadic, the other day, you said, about two days ago, that you did not accept all these remarks that we were talking about today, you said you did not accept the opposition's objections, because you did not want a lossful policy and that the resolution should not state what measures Serbia would take towards countries that would eventually recognise Kosovo's status. Who are you keeping this secret from, Mr. Tadic? Shouldn't the citizens of Serbia, this parliament, these people in Kosovo and Metohija who are thinking and looking and listening to how we plan to solve their problems and their fate, should they not know? Or do you have an exclusive right, I don't know if you've informed Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Samardzic about what you say should remain your secret? To you, Mr Samardzic, I object that you did not write in this report and did not specify what it is, especially now that you are in the role of the minister, what it is and whether the state of Serbia has done in researching Ahtisaari's collection of bribes for what it has done with its motion for a resolution that envisioned Kosovo's secession. Of course, you know it's 40 million euros. As a state, you had to deal with this problem a little bit and from certain international organisations, agencies and so on find out what is true and what is not true. I was interested in listening to your friend Kushner on your B92 TV the other day, and I'm saying this, Mr Tadic, to you, because of your mentioning the policy of violence of Slobodan Milosevic, when Kushner agreed with the show manager that it is not a big problem that Serbia will be left without Kosovo and Metohija, but the problem is that it did not happen in Milosevic's time but where in Tadic's time. You know, these are all reasons and I quote all of this to make it clear to you why I don't trust you or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we thought this resolution was supposed to be much more concrete, that you couldn't do anything about it on your own and on your own. We can't trust you either, Mr. Kostunica, because I have to remind you, you've released the Cypriot terrorists who have continued to kill and persecute Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. You never gave a valid answer, let alone answer for it. Also, it should be clearly written in this resolution or at least we, Serbian radicals, clearly say for the public above all, I know it is not worth telling to you, especially from the Democratic Party, it is simply incomprehensible, human amazing, that you, I understand, are so much at stake, as all citizens of Serbia, are helping Russia solve Kosovo and Metohija's problems, and on the other hand you are competing, praiseing your ministers, and Sutanovac, and Jeremic, are seeing some NATO Secretary-General and so on, already planning Serbia's entry into NATO. Of course, it did not occur to you that you must ask, first of all, Serbian citizens and of course you will never get such agreement. But diplomatically it's incorrect, at the very least, that you can act so hypocritically. You, Mr. Kostunica, do not deceive the citizens of Serbia that your great merit is that Kosovo and Metohija are still part of the Republic of Serbia. The only one who should be grateful to all of us and all of Serbia's citizens who care about Serbia's territorial integrity, why it is still a unique Serbia, a single territory, is the Russian Federation and is Vladimir Putin. Without him and without that policy, there was a comment here today whether Russia loves us or does not love us, whether Russia has interests, has no interests, all of it is irrelevant. The unquestionable fact is that Kosovo and Metohija are still preserved as part of the Republic of Serbia thanks exclusively to the Russian Federation's policy. That's why it would be good, Mr. Todorovic said we should have brought the resolution to thank Russia and Putin for what they did for Serbia. Here, I suggest something we can do very quickly. I suggest that we call this recent Bulevar AVNOJ a boulevard of Putin, in gratitude, to free ourselves from that table with the name of the first mafia prime minister and that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic no longer moves, to remain a man in his apartment, because I am sure, Mr. Nikolic, that you would happily live in a street bearing the name Vladimir Putin. So, regardless of all the objections we made, we said it at the outset, and now I'm going to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this time we Serbian radicals are proving that we have state and national interests ahead of party interests, the resolution has a lot of hollowness, as you've heard, a lot of objections, but such as it cannot harm Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and we, on behalf of state and national interests, are going to vote for such a missing resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5011	The People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared. The total time for the SRS, which still has MPs on the list of registered speakers, is 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a long period of time, we have received a motion for a resolution on the need for a fair solution to the issue of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and the Metohija based on international law. The basic international standards underlying international law are the territorial integrity and respect of the sovereignty of each country. Therefore, the eventual declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija would be a fuse that would set many conflicts on fire in various parts of the world. When Michael Polt, leaving the US ambassador, says that Serbia alone overestimates the global importance of Kosovo and that it is not a precedent that would cause the so-called domino effect in other crisis areas in the world, we need to have information that the largest number of Europeans knows that the United States today poses the greatest threat to world peace. Take a look at the results of the research conducted by the US Institute for Public Opinion Survey "Haris Interactiv" and the results were transmitted by the internet agency Washington Prof.ajle. The results of the survey showed that as many as 46% of the population of Spain, 32% of the population of Germany, 31% of the population of France, 30% of the population of Great Britain, 21% of the population of Italy and even, believe it or not, 11% of the American citizens. It's worth mentioning that in Washington, not even 3% of Americans believe Russia is a threat primarily to the American way of life and Western democracy. This is precisely another reason for us to show, first of all, the political unity of all relevant political factors, without exception to respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular Articles 2, 4, 51, 86, as well as the UN Security Council Resolution 1244, as well as the resolutions voted by the MPs in the Republic Assembly, as well as Article 16. The government law. The SRS will always support a policy that respects the Constitution and defends the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the circumstances in both the country and the world. I want to express my gratitude above all to the Russian Federation, China, but also to other friends in the world, who defend international law and international legal order. But I also want us to pull the parallel between October 5, 2000 and today's date. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija is neither better nor more favourable, although democratic Serbia has been taking care of Kosovo and Metohija for seven years. SRS representatives hope that while Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, as well as the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, negotiate Kosovo's territory and the Metohija will not run out of Serbs, because in addition to successful negotiations, the population living in Kosovo and Metohija should provide better conditions for living, jobs, wages, electricity. If they follow the SRS' ideology and apply it in practice, there is hope for all who live and work in Serbia, with Kosovo and Metohija as an inseparable part of Serbia. That is why Serbia must send a clear and unique message that Kosovo and Metohija will never be independent, that we will safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of our country, because we know that history precedes the present but also the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5013	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5014	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the latest events have again put on the agenda the resolution of the fate of old Serbia, and the famous but sad mother of ours, where the historic nest of the Serbian state, Serbian kings, emperors, are the famous non-distant capitals in Kosovo and Metohija, the New Market Ras, Pristina, Prizren, Peć, where our brothers live in blood, by language, by language, by popular consciousness, desires and aspirations. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Berlin Congress in 1878, we have been calling for violent murder, kidnapping, rape, violent immigration, non-recognition of our faith, language, the names of the Serb people, the foundation of the Cypriot terrorists. The destruction of old Serbia has been done in a savage way, and has continued to this day, with the goal of destroying all ethnicities, and remains only Albanian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija. At the Berlin Congress, the old Serbs had their authorised representative, represented by the Archemandrit of the Decani monastery, Sava Decanac. He presented to the distinguished gentlemen, the great powers, the Berlin Congress, the organizers of the European Assembly and the chairman-in-Office of Bismarque himself with a performance describing the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija with the most bitter words. This people suffered unto this day an outrageous suffering, for it was left to the mercy and mercies of Turkish and Albanian terrorists. The Serbian people of Kosovo and Metohija today with blood and tears, their eyes are begging and begging all the state authorities and political factors in the Republic of Serbia to know and to be freed as soon as they can, while this still has little of our Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, with a large number of often amazing statements, I'm only citing a few of those who came from Europeans, your fellow Democrats. At first, I would like to point out the statement by Ustinov, the UNICEF ambassador, which is in the European Times 10. Six. In 1993, he said, "animals use their resources significantly happier than these perverse Serbs, whose belonging to the human race is in great delay. "In February 1994, Polish daily Žice Warsaw published the following statement by Helmut Kola, who was direct when he said in early 1998, "the Serbs should be delivered in their own smell." Furthermore, similar to Cole's Minister Kinkel, who is 27. 5. In 1992, he said, "The Serbs should be forced to kneel." Tamara Hanar of Geneva said: "The Serbs are the people of the pair - rotten apples in the barrel of Europe. They must be neutralised." Daniel Kon-Bendit, "Red Danny", head of students in Paris in 1968, and today the prominent personality of the German "Greens", in a Berlin-based daily on 20 April 1994, wrote this, "The real thing is that NATO should bomb Serbs. The bombing would undoubtedly have terrible consequences, but I do not believe that blinding the Serb population and the Serb armies would stand before such a performance of determination. ''Ladies and gentlemen, more than a stunning incident took place at a meeting of the heads of EU governments in Paris in 1995, when Greek Prime Minister Papandreou first spoke about a civil war being waged in Bosnia with elements of the religious war, but Jacques Shirak rudely and undiplomatically interrupted it with the words "Let me interrupt you, Mr. President, Serbs are a people without law, without faith, a people of robbers and terrorists." This incident was reported in the Paris-based journal "Mond" in a distorted version. I'm going to put an end to just two more very characteristic statements. Bernard Kouchner, your friend, the head of the UN civilian mission in Kosovo, said, in a documentary report broadcast on the state TV of the Second French Programme at the end of March 2000, the following: "We had nine Serbs killed last week, this week eight, this is a visible progress." General Michael Jackson, the British commander of KFOR, according to the New York Times, said in February 2000, "The less Serbs remain, the easier Kosovo will be provided". Ladies and gentlemen, these are the friends of a new democracy. So I turn, on behalf of the SRS, attention to the negotiating team - don't trust these hohstapplers, don't trust these liars and cheaters and when they bring you gifts. On behalf of the SRS and as an MP of the largest political party, responsible, whose president in the tribunal's captivity, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, thanks to writing and authors from Belgrade for nearly five years in captivity, the SRS draws attention to you: no one can take responsibility to play with Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are also too serious to be left to you alone for mercy. Long live the SRS, lived the great Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5015	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Marko Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is little time left for our largest parliamentary group, but you have heard from Mr Tomislav Nikolic and my esteemed colleagues that it is the first and most fundamental state and national interest, and what we put above party and personal interest at all times, Kosovo and Metohija, as an inalienable part of our country. From the five-octobaric coup to today we have the seventh resolution on the agenda and we have one declaration on the so-called so-called. Hackerup's constitutional framework. A lot has changed and Mr Samardzic himself knows, which has been dealing with the Kosovo-Methohic issue for many years, that until now we have been able to look at it in what he once said, the triangle we, the Serbs- so-called. The international community of Scepter Separatists. But now, fortunately for us, a fourth, very important factor has appeared and is deciding in the future on the issue of our southern province, which is the Russian Federation. Since Russia, led by President Vladimir Putin, stood up and since Vladimir Putin was clear and unequivocally, taking over power and strengthening the Russian Federation after Jelicin's rule, said that no one could in such a way play with international law and the UN Charter, we can absolutely be sure, especially after Russian President of the State Dume arrived here at the House of the National Assembly a few days ago and all statements by Russian officials, that this superpower would clearly and unequivocally defend the interest of our country. It's the only way and direction Serbia has to go and where you have to turn. In August 2006, Mr Boris Tadic appeared to be someone well-intentioned and wanted to introduce himself differently from the former Milosevic regime, offered Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija help in treating child meningitis and the epidemic that was spreading at the time. Not only was there not an answer, but immediately thereafter all the Ship's leaves in Tirana, and "Sot" and "Metropol" and others went with the worst possible convictions of their political alleged leaders, otherwise murderers and slaughterers such as Haradinaj and Ceku, to any possibility that they would sit in the same room and negotiate with representatives of our people. They said they wanted the realisation of the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and all the places where Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija for eight years under the occupation of the NATO Pact. They said the regime in Belgrade is the same fascist, just as it was in Milosevic's time. Then it is pointless, Mr. Tadic, to court them and to mention in your speech that part of our history, when you were somewhere else, probably safe, smiling and smiling, and when our people fought against the aggression of the NATO Pact for 78 days and when our colleague, General Delic, was in the most difficult positions, leading the Serbian army. Therefore, the path and direction is clear, but the unspeakable resolution is in front of us. On February 14th, when we verified the mandate of every new MP after the elections and the victory of the SRS in those elections, we had that previous resolution, it was not yet known and it was not seen who would take the prime minister's seat in your combination. But now that it is known, when you are committed to this resolution, which we are going to vote for, but which is unspoken, which had to be more explicit, which had to take a position on the issue of possible self-proclaiming of Kosovo and Metohija as some independent state, you must, Mr Kostunica, as prime minister of the Serbian government, in this new negotiating team to fulfill what you promised Serbs when you called out to your mitinses "Cheers Serbia". Regardless of how close you have Mr Samardzic and whatever the composition of the negotiating team will be, you must return the state to Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. No problem is there is no problem if you use Resolution 1244, and you know that you have, without any nuance, how the ominous means of presenting "B92" and other media that are aimed at destroying and disrupting the process of achieving national unity, so you have the possibility that, through a request to apply Resolution 1244, you are seeking the presence of a Serbian state in our southern province. None of you ever said that in a place where you didn't negotiate, but tried to negotiate, in a way that you should be determined to say it. What he told you and told you, as a former diplomat in our country, and your political mentor who helped you to come to power in Serbia, William Montgomery, is one whole truth that he and all Americans, American diplomats and officials know – no negotiations were ever held in Vienna. Just as last year, in September, wrote Vienna's "Standard" and as Montgomery said many times – it is one farce and that is what you never, Mr Kostunica, and Boris Tadic, Vladimir Putin had no illusions about. Since he broke up with the mafia, having recovered Russia as a superpower, not only on the Balkan area and so much equal strategic relations he wants with us, he made it clear that there are no illusions about Russia and America's relations, representatives from the G8 Group and Russia's role in the Contact Group. No illusions about historical friends and enemies or strategic partners, because it clearly and unequivocally told us the friendly country, and that's the only direction we have to go, to turn to it and to other friends in the world, that kiM are an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. I am very pleased that Mr Tadic, with a different story and his desire for Serbia to enter the NATO Pact, and by putting his finger in the eye and Putin and the Russian Federation, will experience a debacle in the upcoming presidential elections, but it is very dangerous for our country and the people of KIM. That is why it is your last moment to consider yourself, to turn to the only friends Serbia has in the world, in order to preserve KIM within Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5017	Thank you, Natasha. The People's Messenger Marko Milenkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Nikola Savic be prepared. The SRS parliamentary group has two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5018	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, words carved on a marble pillar in the Kosovo Field, 'Don't pass by or miss', bright as the bones of the martyrs who have died married with glory, testifying about the time that has passed and the time that is imminent. May we pass through and overlook the years of blood carved, which warn and refer to the existence, tradition and culture of Serbs. It has always been a struggle for Serbia, Kosovo, Pomoravalje, Toplice, the north and south of our country. May we pass by and overlook today that there is a deliberate replacement of thesis and use the concepts - future status and final solution. May we ignore the fact that your friends from the EU and the United States are trying to steal 15% of our territory from us. They violate international law, the UN Charter and United Nations Resolution 1244. Serbia, as a sovereign state and a full member of the UN, has defined Kosovo's status, which is essential autonomy, with significant self-government within Serbia. Resolution 1244, as well as all international legal norms and principles, recognise this status, and therefore there is both the status of Kosovo and the final solution, and the situation is more than clear. Our people know this well, no matter how often you plant phrases on him - Kosovo has been sold, Kosovo is lost, we cannot defend it. We can. We Serbian radicals know we will defend him if we make our views about KIM more radically, where there are no guesses, to what the Constitution obliges us to do. Because all states must know that the Republic of Serbia will always treat KIM territory as part of Serbia, regardless of any acts by international factors and that we will never and at no cost accept the separation of KIM from Serbia or its division. In particular, the final consistent application of Resolution 1244, under which a number of Serbian military and police personnel will be returned to Kosovo, as these standards, since you came to power in 2000, have had to be met so far. Of course, to inform all other UN members urgently... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... (I apologize, I will end quickly) that with the eventual recognition of the independent state of KIM, it will endanger relations with the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, to insist on the fact that there is a problem in Cosmet, which is the problem of the Albanian national minority in the state of Serbia. All of these are the views of the SRS Resolution, the attitudes that are not in this mild resolution that lies before us today. The President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, cannot declare in the January pre-election rally this year -- Kosovo is closer to independence today than ever. And right behind that, the DS goal is Serbia's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration. Do you, as a midnight government, with a silenced head, think that Serbia and Kosovo defends Russia, China, Indonesia and South Africa from your friends, that you continue to make only approved statements from your Western employers and travel around the world for a potential justification to the people. (President: Mr Milenkovic... I'm sorry, I'll be done very soon. The policy you have been leading for seven years, including the KIM problem, says many foreign countries have interests in Serbia, but not Serbian citizens. If they do, this government is wise to remain silent. He is symptomatic today, calling the State Negotiation Team's report for the KIM on negotiations from Vienna from 21 February to 2 March. Just look at that time distance to this day, what you've been waiting for, whether these negotiations were successful, so in the end there was no need for a report, or the situation is extremely alarming with signals that, as a National Assembly and states, we are urgently taking new steps. As a result of the survival of KiM, the SRS withdrew from the procedure, for a certain time, a proposal to vote for no confidence in the midnight government, and Serbia's largest living Serbian hero, Professor Vojislav Seselj, from The Hague, makes more of a defence of KIM and Serbs than you do of the government in Belgrade. That, gentlemen, is the state-of-the-art conduct of the opposition party and the state-run conduct of the leader of the opposition party imprisoned in The Hague, on the justice of God, of those same friends of yours, who would take our territory. May we pass by and see that Russia led by Vladimir Putin has a principled, firm attitude... (President: Mr. Milenkovic, I tried to get you to finish, because your time is up. Thank you very much. I'll end up in two sentences. By adopting today's resolution, but also by further activities of state authorities, we must show the world that Kosovo is not a Serbian province; it is a sacred country, it is part of the genetic record of a nation, it is part of the genetic record of every Serb, wherever it was and, as all past is related to Kosovo, so the future without Kosovo is entirely predictable to us. It is our vow and destiny, as long as we have awareness of ourselves and responsibility for the state and the people, but also for the generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5019	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search, I give my word to the proposing representative. Mr. Varga, you're out of time. That's right, sorry, you got it, there you go. The Socialist League Group of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina - the Union of Duchy Hungarians. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5020	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians will not support the motion for a resolution. We'll be restrained. Mr. Pastor cited the reasons and explained in detail what reason we will be restrained. I'd like to look back on points 1 and 6 only on this occasion. The motion for a resolution. We believe that the formulations in terms of proper action, a timely and energetic response, are formulations that are totally unacceptable to us. For us, it is more or less clear that this formulation contains a threat to the interruption of diplomatic relations. The prime minister said a few days ago that Serbia had achieved a significant victory by withdrawing the draft new resolution on Kosovo from the agenda of the Security Council. Minister Samardzic also said it was a major victory for Serbian diplomacy. Minister Jeremic said it was the result of the hard work of Serbian diplomacy. For us, therefore, the threat of breaking diplomatic relations is completely pointless in a situation where Serbia has achieved such significant victories on the agenda of diplomacy. To me, the ruling majority at this point resembles a sports team that threatens to pull out of that field where it wins and at times when it wins. I think the ruling majority must admit that this is quite illogical right now. We said February 14th, and today we have repeated that we do not want to pull any parallels with the situation in Vojvodina and Kosovo. But at the same time and today, we said that if, during the resolution of Kosovo's final status, some new mechanisms for the protection of minority rights for communities in Kosovo are found or established, then we will ask for the same thing for all other communities in all other areas of the Republic of Serbia. During the Vienna negotiations, the state negotiating team submitted many amendments to Mr Ahtisaari's proposal. The logical question is whether it means that the Serbian government is ready to offer the same or similar rights to other minority communities or other national communities in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'd like to give some concrete examples from that document. As for the opening work, one section refers to official languages in the AP territory of Kosovo and Metohija. There, the Serbian delegation proposed an amendment, completely logical, to establish the Serbian language as an official language in Kosovo. On this occasion, I would ask the question - does this mean that the Serbian government is ready to reduce the legal censorship for the introduction of minority languages into official use on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the current 10% to 5%. On the other hand, the question arises whether the Serbian government is preparing a new law on the official use of language that would allow secondary procedures to be conducted in the languages of national minorities. The logical question is also whether the budget will provide for funding for multilingualism for next year, etc. In the same introductory part, Article 2 provides for the principle of non-discrimination. It was predicted by Mr. Ahtisaari in his proposal. It says that Serbia accepts that it supports non-discrimination in obtaining funds from public sources. A logical question arises whether this principle will apply to other parts of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I am referring to one obligation of this state, which is to form a fund for national minorities, which has not been formed for five years since the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. As for the area of local self-government, the amendment of our negotiating team envisions the formation of a Serb entity. The question arises, is the Serbian government ready to, when adopting a new law on local self-government, in some form, provide for other national communities in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. As for point eight of the proposal, it envisions a return of property by institutions in Kosovo as a priority. This is what our delegation agreed with. The same raises a logical question, does the Serbian government consider it a priority to place this issue as a priority in other areas of the Republic of Serbia as a priority. As for the Constitutional Commission, whose formation is also foreseen by this document, the amendment to the negotiating team provides for the mandatory participation of Serbian and other minority communities in this commission, even the veto of representatives of the Serb community in the adoption of the constitution. I would like to remind myself that when the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, practically national minorities were excluded from the process of adopting this constitution. Don't you think this is a double-arshin policy? Furthermore, as regards the annex of one of the proposals, which concerns the legislative authority in Kosovo and Metohija, the proposal contains the possibility of introducing guaranteed seats for members of the Serb community, as well as representatives of other minority communities in Kosovo. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the two parties of the ruling coalition, the DSS and the G17 plus believe that this right in Vojvodina should not be enjoyed by national minorities. Even the director of the Human and Minority Rights Service said that racist behaviour would be the formation of electoral lists based on which these MPs would be elected from a list of national minorities. I think it would be much more logical for the government of the Republic of Serbia to propose amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs and to introduce the same guaranteed places in the case of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It would then allow authentic representatives of national minorities to sit only in the benches of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is seen from the period of operation of the National Assembly that representatives of national communities elected on the lists of majority parties cannot practically go out for a pay phone and must not express the views of their national communities. As for the Constitutional Court, and this is one example in the proposal, our state delegation has tabled an amendment proposing that two judges of the six Constitutional Courts in Kosovo be elected with the consent of the Serb community and national minorities. The question arises whether a similar principle will apply during the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. As far as annex three is concerned, decentralisation, the amendment of the State Negotiation Team envisions extended responsibilities for municipalities with Serbia's majority in many areas. We would be very pleased if, in the area of education or culture, only part of these competences were transferred to the national councils of national minorities, as is otherwise foreseen by the amendment of the State Negotiation Team. Finally, as far as the justice system is concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5021	You've got 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5022	As far as the judicial system is concerned, it is a very interesting proposal, i.e. an amendment under which municipalities would choose the holders of judicial functions on the territory of the Autonomous Region. It was an amendment to our negotiating team. We do not, of course, ask for it, because it does not comply with the principles of judicial independence. But we certainly ask that at least population proportions be respected, i.e. that the holders of judicial functions are selected on the basis of the numericality of certain national minorities in certain areas. Finally, just another proposal regarding the security sector. The plan envisioned that local police commanders should also be elected by municipalities. I think it would be possible to give an opinion, not the right to choose, but to give opinions by municipalities when electing local police chiefs would be possible not only in territories where national minorities live... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but also in all other municipalities in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5023	Thank you, Mr. Varga. I give my word to Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Dr Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5024	Dear MPs, I'm not sure that one big discussion could be opened now after all this time of your presentation and my careful listening to all the suggestions and remarks you've made on the resolution, including the report, but let me say a few sentences about all this. First of all, as far as the general thing is concerned, let everyone be clear, namely, to those who do not understand that several years ago, Kosovo was in some political sense a clinically dead case for Serbia. In the past few years, Serbia has consolidated its state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. She, therefore, made a step by step of a policy that can be clearly identified. They can criticise her, they can give her a variety of objections, but no one can say that you don't know what she is and what Serbia's policy is about Kosovo and Metohija. I can guarantee that. Things move from week to week, from month to month. They move better, if we look at it with one criterion, and that criterion is that Kosovo and Metohija are preserved within Serbia. With that criterion, things are definitely moving better. I'm not saying that we came out of the dark zone today, from an area where one-sided declaration could occur, and a unilateral recognition and a great deal of trouble that the state would have gotten into, but compared to a few years ago, when we really didn't have major actions, in the international community, or in our own country around Kosovo and Metohija, we can determine the fact, therefore not worth it or descriptive, that the situation is far, far different. In my opinion far, far better. This is proof that we have never been in favour of the status quo in Kosovo and Metohija, we have already tried to help solve this difficult problem in a delicate and specific way. This is what characterizes Serbia's state policy in the continuance of the two governments, so both past and these now. The past government worked part of its mandate in co-habitation with the President of the Republic and the thing went slowly, but a common policy was made which the world began to respect slowly. Negotiations contributed. Let me tell you right now, we didn't have any broad margin to move around Kosovo and Metohija. So there was no question of our dignity and honor whether we would accept such negotiations. There was an observation here that the negotiations didn't even exist, i.e. that they were farces. You know what, it was more or less clear to us, but we had to accept that policy, in order to use this farce form of negotiations for our views and for the content of our contributions to resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues. It took 14 months. We therefore took the opportunity to show to detail how we see Kosovo and Metohija's future, how we see Kosovo and Metohija's status. That thing, if I may say so, has succeeded with the international community. People saw clearly, there were many who followed these negotiations, so directly, who participated in them as owners, and experts and politicians, from the United States, from the European Union, and from Russia. There's been a lot of press, there's been a lot of talk about it, there's been a lot of talk outside the hall that's been negotiated. There's been a lot of negotiations in shuttle diplomacy. So enough elements and enough material to say for a year and something -- Serbia clears what it wants. So, not to say it, because we knew it three or four years ago, but those who deliberately obstructed our every positive step and who came up with the slogan -- Serbia knows what it doesn't, and not that it knows what it wants, here for months now, thanks to these negotiations, these farce negotiations, which I agree with, they can't say. At the end of the line, they understand what Serbia represents in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. So this is one process that moves one step at a time, in one direction that is in agreement with our goals. The objectives are to achieve the solution in a compromise way, to respect international law and to make the solution mutually acceptable, sustainable and sustainable for these two reasons. I can't guarantee right now that we've done it by now, but we're definitely moving in that direction. It's understood when it comes to the international community, it's a complex, complex system that's not always the same, which was different 10 to 15 years ago, it was different four years ago, different two or one year ago. As for Russia and its attitude towards this problem, it is quite clear that Russia has been a decisive help so far. I can tell you that the Russian stance was definitely such as to support Serbia's 100% position only somewhere, in my deep confidence, since January 2006, when Putin said in London that Kosovo cannot be a single case, that it cannot be a famous unique case and that Kosovo must be resolved as well as all other similar issues of secession, the wish of a minority who lives in a numbered form in most areas to separate itself from the state, etc. When he said it was a common problem that must be addressed by means and means of how this is otherwise solved in the world and through mechanisms of international law and minority rights, etc. Now, that moment, Russia definitely stood behind Serbia, and I think, or I'm quite sure, that it followed very closely daily what was happening in Serbia. Only when she saw that there was a policy that was for the respect, which is solid, which is unique, which provides a solution for the other side, and not only for itself, which provides a solution for the regional problem and for the problem of Europe, was Russia's 100 per cent behind Serbia. So that's the word for explanation. I'm sorry I won't be able to answer all the individual remarks because that may not be the point, but if you allow me to group the objections in just a few points per criterion. According to the criteria, whether several MPs were objecting to the same thing. So that was important to me, because if several MPs gave the same objections, that means that the objections are more serious, although I do not dispute and that an individual objection could have been serious, but we do not have time for a complete discussion. A few MPs asked why this discussion, this debate, what resolution? I'll answer it quite simply and easily. In fact, the representative home of a state must be about an important state issue to gather occasionally, to discuss and to make appropriate documents, including decisions. We occasionally gather around Kosovo and Metohija, but there are two new moments in relation to the February 14th Resolution, to remind you, which are in this resolution, which are the reason for a new resolution. One is that we move into a new phase of negotiations after a lot of problems and the other is that the need for the state to respond to the open threats of unilateral recognition after possible unilateral secession. These are two absolutely new moments compared to February 14th and we in the resolution have a few points on this. So we have reason enough to put the resolution as a proposal for a assembly debate and a parliamentary vote. There have been a lot of objections about how the state's and state's reactions to certain acts of unilateral recognition and violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia are foreseen. Interesting were the remarks that ranged from one extreme to another. One extreme is the view that the state should not react at all, or that the resolution has a bad dictionary, bad verbalism in this regard. The second point is that the state needs to react strongly and put it in this resolution. Our motion in the resolution is somewhere in the middle, but it's not the middle itself, it's the way the state should react to these threats and forecasts of some bad scenarios. We think parliament should make a general decision on that. This is, therefore, the formulation that it is necessary to act properly, that it should act in good time, energy, etc., and that the Government should possibly implement that decision if there is a reason for such a decision to be implemented. It is quite clear in some parliamentary system of government, where you have legislation and executive power. The government has the full responsibility of the executive authority under the Constitution and it is up to it to decide, if there are these unforeseen, unsolicited situations, how it will implement this general decision by parliament. That's why I say that word in general, but I mean clearly enough for anyone who wants to take that break-up move to act as a deterrent effect, if I may say so, and it has indeed achieved such an effect so far. One area of objections concerns the alleged or the real one, which is even worse, the ignorance of what we represent under the syntagmic essential autonomy. There's been a lot of ignorance and misunderstanding, which I'm personally surprised, but I may have a problem with. Let me finish, Mr. Nikolic, because I answer to the remarks of the MPs. I think I have a right to do that and we have a duty to do it, and I'm trying to be as brief as possible. I don't think I'd be in the mood. I'd just be begging if you wouldn't interrupt my exposure. I think that's basic. When it comes to essential autonomy, it is interesting that many MPs did not read the number of documents we produced on this matter. Today, after the report, you have another document, so the report is either adopted or adopted after the vote, I apologize. You'll have another document that says enough about that thing. There's one extreme ignorance of the proposal here. It's compared to the 1974 Constitution. A comparison has been made with autonomy that exists in other countries in Europe. That's not gonna happen. This program is completely different and I ask all those who have not read it to read it carefully. At the end of the line, essential autonomy should meet one necessary Albanian community to live in Kosovo and Metohija, enjoying maximum competencies, while again the Serb community and the Serbian state reach their rights in Kosovo and Metohija. It is hard to expect that the Albanian community, as one MP said, is integrated into Serbian society. It has never integrated, it is true, but it has never integrated into either Macedonian or Greek society, and that community is difficult to integrate. If you read carefully the concept of essential autonomy, you will see how it can, if it wants to integrate, if it does not have to, but it will have its normal life within Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija in the essential autonomy regime. Finally, one last explanation about the entity's problem. In the amendments and during our discussion in Vienna, we promoted this concept and briefly marked it this way: the Serb entity in Kosovo and Metohija represents all the rights that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija enjoy, so also decentralisation, that is one special form of rights given to them, and protection of Serb monuments of culture, and rights that enjoy outside the municipalities in which they represent the majority. The whole set of rights represents the concept of a Serbian entity in Kosovo and Metohija. It says in the amendments, it doesn't say in the report, it's true, but the report couldn't cover everything, it says in the amendments, with a clear definition of what it is and a clear explanation of what it really represents. So it's no novelty, so it's another attempt to explain what's gone wrong. Now I will conclude this discussion, with the view that this resolution is actually an important step in the state policy in Kosovo and Metohija because it should stand behind the efforts of all state authorities to do something in the province, to come up with a compromise solution and to support a future state negotiating team, which has so far been much easier to work if it has such resolutions and such a congregation unity behind it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5025	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5026	I think this is where the dignity of the National Assembly was injured and that it was supposed to be the president of the National Assembly. I find it really unacceptable for a man to change his post so much that he starts insulting the MPs and saying that we don't understand something, and that he needs to explain to us now what essential autonomy is, and he won't explain to us what the government is going to do in the cases he's predicted by the Resolution. Mr. Minister, we've been here for Serbia all day to suffer you here, we didn't deserve your tirada in the end. I think they should respond to DS MPs. You directly accused governments before Vojislav Kostunica of not having had an opinion on Kosovo and Metohija and that only by the arrival of Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia presented a sacred programme that saves Kosovo and Metohija. You're not saying that all this depends on Russia, for free of your stories and your negotiations, if Russia had accepted any of these resolutions for nothing, it would have been that you're in power. So, please, if you had respected us, you would have at least given us this report, now I have to say, which one did you date, because you, Mr Samardzic, invited the Assembly today to discuss your report, and what date was that report written? Is there any report in which you address anyone not to write a date? What date did you get this report from? Don't hold our tracks, especially not late at night at one o'clock, it's your own fault the session started at four o'clock. Speak to the messengers of the people with dignity, and we address you. I even commended you, but this is what an evil man has spoken from you now. What was it hard for you to sit around all day? Who knows when you'll be back at the National Assembly? This is an honor for you. When would you see the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5027	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5028	Mr. Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Minister of Government, is right, MP Nikolic, you are responsible for our call to the Rules of Procedure. I think after an eight-hour debate, 30 minutes after midnight, MPs deserve more respect in offering answers to questions that were raised very seriously during the debate. We have not received those answers, and, Mr Samaradzic, of course, you have the right to deny us for those answers, but that is another argument in which the opposition in this resolution is made. I think that you have offended our dignity to deny us the definition of the proper functioning of the state bodies in accordance with international law, that you have denied us the very important justification of the government's and all state authorities' obligation to respond in a timely and energetic manner to each hint of unilateral recognition of Kosovo, i.e. violation of the rules on which you insist in your policy. We are particularly dissatisfied with the interpretation in which we have identified ourselves, in which you have defined us as unserious and irresponsible because we have missed the opportunity to understand everything that is under the idea of essential autonomy. I'll let you know that we've been asking your ministry for documents that might allow us to interpret the term, and that in response, we've been instructed to look for an explanation on the Internet. In conversation with you, you sent us to the press. As for the very important question about entities, the answer is not in the report, you've referred us to the amendments, and you know we've written hundreds of amendments ourselves. I don't mind that, we commended your work on this issue, but don't expect parliament to discuss this resolution in such a way. We are not satisfied with your arguments, and we are concerned that we are sure that the arguments are left out not because you do not want to give them, but because you do not have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5029	I'm concluding a unique search. Since we have conducted a single search on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, today, July 25th, 2007, at 12:24 p.m., as a voting day. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the State Negotiating Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I find that the National Assembly, with 201 votes to, 20 against and three abstentions, has decided to accept the State Negotiation Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a resolution, we need to make a statement on the amendment submitted to the motion for a resolution. National MPs Nenad Canak, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov have submitted an amendment suggesting that the text of the resolution be deleted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5030	I just have to say, in the first vote, it was officially said that it was 20 against it. We watched, 20 couldn't be against, there were so many fewer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-24-0.u5031	When this vote is over, we will consider it before. Who refrains from voting? I find that the National Assembly has rejected this amendment, with three votes to, against 205 and three abstentions. So, given the doubts expressed about the regularity of the previous vote, I would ask that the vote be repeated. I am voting on the State Negotiating Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. Who's in? Who's against it? Who refrains from voting? I find that the National Assembly, with 217 votes in favour of, 12 against and three abstentions, accepted the State Negotiating Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on the negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I put to the vote the Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the need for a fair solution to the issue of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and the Metohija based on international law. Who's in? Who's against it? Is anyone abstaining from voting? I find the National Assembly with 217 votes in favour of, 12 against and three abstentions, adopted the State Negotiating Team Report for Kosovo and Metohija on the negotiations held in Vienna from 21 February to 2 March 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Bon appétit.
