ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25870	...ma'am, distinguished MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 85th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to representatives, our regular guests, the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ministers and deputies in the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Council of Europe, the monitoring missions, as well as delegations that have expressed interest in monitoring the work of the House of Representatives and representatives of NGOs of the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. I warmly welcome all present. According to the service report, I find that the session is attended by 32 representatives, 20 from the Federation and 12 from the RS. We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. The absence from the session was justified by Mr Jozo Križanović and what I still have Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. You ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, have received a draft agenda. Meanwhile, the acquisition of circumstances complemented the agenda with certain points on which agreement has been reached in both colleges and in the narrow and expanded. So in the draft agenda added to the call you received are the following points. 1. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act on the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. It's Law No 0102-03-35/3 from 6 to 15.9 this year, then 2. The request of MPs Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić to discuss the proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also under procedure 105. Rules of Procedure and Under 3. Granting consent to ratify three contracts. You have received the updated draft agenda. I'm asking and explaining that this was the maximum that we had, regardless of the differences that we had in the agenda, we could achieve and here's what you're considering. 2 I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. The first came from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, so Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, and Tihomir Gligorić, Elvi Jahić, Momčilo Jovanović, Sipović, and Zlatko Lagumdžija, and Sead Avdić, and Potočnik and Živković. That doesn't mean I'm giving up, I just recorded you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25871	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is true that
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25872	May I have your attention and your patience, we've waited a long time, here's an hour and now let's get to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25873	that we were able to negotiate on the agenda both at the College and at the Expansive College around these points. Of course, around some points, we had no agreement. I am now using the right to propose, as an MP here at the House, one very important point under Article 105 of our Rules of Procedure, a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since there are more, I will specify the number, this number is 01-02-037-11/06, since 8.9.6., and to be clear it is a law that should be formulated by the Council of Ministers by this office of the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina co-ordinators who already exist at the Council of Ministers. This would be a legal framework for that office. The law is under article 105, and I think today should be on the agenda and it should be adopted in both readings, and I suggest that it be placed on the agenda. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25874	I thank Mr. Džaferović. All I ask is in writing these suggestions to me in order. Now it's Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25875	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we are in the draft agenda that we received a few days ago, had a note that, if the competent commissions deliver a report on some of the bill proposals that were in the commission phase, they would be implemented on the agenda. I do not have the custom to intervene on college members on such issues, however, I am really interested in why it was not proposed in the agenda of the Proposed Law on Violations, as the committee responsible submitted the report. I think there's been plenty of time for any interventions on the commission's report so that's the question, but also a proposal to put it on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25876	Thank you, just deliver this to me if you can in writing until these other MPs finish their debates on the agenda, I'll put all the suggestions on the plea. Next is Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, let Mr. Elmir Jahić prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that after the fifth item of the agenda, which we received on the benches, I propose a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of old foreign currency savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Explanation. Since we had this in our first reading, since Parliament, the House of Representatives has not decided to return it to the commission and there is no new reason why we would ignore the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which is that we are discussing today. I think that as a College, you should have suggested by the Rules of Procedure, because as you say this morning at the extended College, Mr. Raguž, it's all business. I agree with you. It was supposed to be that point was found in a regular procedure with a second reading in the Rules of Procedure, because Article 47. The Rules of Procedure, which define the activities of the College, clearly states: “The chair of its two deputies shall determine the agenda,” and then Article 2 says, “In 10 days, MPs shall be informed” and Article 3. "If it is shorter for it to be called urgently." So you couldn't find any foothold because you already agreed once before to make this point a part of the agenda and we had it. We discussed it, we decided. Our practice has always been to put together the first and second readings but the political will has decided not to have another reading either. And today, we are in a situation where we are just once again praying what gives us the right of the Rules of Procedure, to propose as a legislator of this law, to make it known to be the point of the agenda. The Rules of Procedure clearly define that this is a mandatory item of the agenda. Why didn't you take care of it in college I don't know, because this intervention of mine right now, in the sense that we're voting to be a part of the agenda at all, is completely too high. You have violated the Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives. I think it's about the agenda we have to remember now and the words of the High Representative who said yesterday and asked MPs to do their job, I agree until the last second that we should and adopt the Drug Act. And he forgot to say about the Law on Old Foreign Savings. It comes from a democratic country where my friends who were at war after five years when they came to Germany to the last fening they picked up because that money was waiting for them there. Today he either forgot, or he deliberately doesn't want to solve this problem for these people. And speaking of these people, I can tell you that it's our common shame, this is the home of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These people are out there if you're setting up where our reporters are, there are three rows, they're in the back row. This building we're working on today, they made their own money. And please, because there is no doubt that you will respect my proposal and that this will be the point of the agenda because you have no right as MPs to violate the Rules of Procedure. When these people, when the agenda is official, come and sit in the first bench because they deserve it, because 1.116,000 direct members are represented by 2,000 indirect people. What we're talking about now before the elections, which we're talking about to citizens, fictional citizens or those we just want to talk about. That's why Mr. Džaferović, when you said today, at an enlarged college, that this authority, that the government will resolve this issue to these citizens, means in the next session. We know how in the next session before the local elections they said the VAT would be at two feet, so then you chose one rate. You tricked the citizens. There's nothing next power but this power needs, because it's all started in this congregation, all to finish. Vote against, there's no problem, but there's no transmission and cheating in the meantime. That's why I'm asking you to... 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25878	What I said, let me explain it and leave me alone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25879	Ask for a word, Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25880	Don't be nervous, please, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25881	Please suggest Mr. Gligorić's agenda, debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25882	You have a chance to vote for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina or vote against. There's no problem. Mr. Chairman, I am proposing this and insisting on the Rules of Procedure, you have violated the Rules of Procedure that is quite clear and I suggest that the services bring my draft agenda to you upstairs, chairing that you may have it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25883	Thank you. I didn't violate the Rules of Procedure, there was no consent within the College. I absolutely did be to find this on the agenda, but now it's the way it is. You suggested a supplement. It will be declared by the House and this, all these respected representatives of these associations have always been welcome here and have been when it was on the agenda and if it is today it will be today and that is the answer. So Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25884	Thank you, Chairman, here I am going to repeat my request with the College. In fact, we all know that for a long time it has been procedures for the election of the auditor general and the deputy general auditor and that the non-nomination of these people, indeed, must feel in the work of this institution. I want it, and we all know it, so this whole procedure is over. The score was done and simply ate because there is no consensus in the College we do not have this point of the agenda today. I mean, considering when there will be the next session of Parliament, then a appointment, so as long as it enters the full procedure, we will lose valuable time and obviously eat that there was a kind of consensus in the commission, which is to assume that we can achieve that in Parliament as well. I therefore propose that the agenda item be added to the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25885	I thank Mr. Jahić, and I ask you to deliver it in writing. Mr. Potočnik, please. Let Mr. Jovanović prepare himself. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25886	Mr. Chairman, I have a proposal for this Parliament to draw one conclusion, and the conclusion is this: That the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and the Council of Ministers to form a team that will monitor all developments related to the activities of neighbouring countries that are directly related to attempts to block the free exit of Bosnia and Herzegovina by sea to the world. The team will directly preserve Bosnia and Herzegovina's position as Mediterranean ocean countries through the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and the Council of Ministers. The deadline for forming that team on 30th of September of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25887	Thank you. All the interventions I said here in writing. Mr. Jovanović. Let Mr. Sipović prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25888	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, I have been tasked by the Transport and Communications Commission to propose that today we put an end to the amendment and addition of the Transport Safety Act on the Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, this morning, when we held a session of the Commission on Co-operation and Communications, we unanimously adopted this, and amendments and amendments to the laws. There were no amendments, and we think that, probably, more this year, there will be no session of one or another home. Given that this law could be applied and the essence is that the law is in line with the laws on infringements adopted at entity level and is expected to be also law today, the state law on violations, means that it could be implemented and that courts would be more effective, I think that this law should be put into practice today, so the law proposed by the Council of Ministers by emergency procedure, means by Article 104, so I think the Commission's report is done, we can today, we can share this one, and I think that this item of the agenda should be put into debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25889	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sipović. Let Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25890	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the international community, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Information Council, I, through the protocol, delivered to you as well as to Members and to the media a proposal to supplement my agenda. I delivered it to the secretary and to you as chairman and chairman, and I asked to report it to the public through the means of information. I, given that you've been given that agenda in writing, and because of the stenogram, let the six homes enter, they're going to declare whether these dots are going to be voted on and certain conclusions, I want to get to know the home briefly and do the stenograms to read. The draft agenda was sent to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the hands of the chairman Adnan Terzić, Justice Minister Slobodan Kovač, the Ministry of Civil Affairs at the hands of Minister Safet Halilović and other ministries in charge of the area. Teached by a positive experience that my initiative is a House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at 84th session on 29th August 2006, passed by a resolution with 31 votes for and 1 abstention, none against, published in the Official Messenger of BiH, No. 73/06, which, in a significant part, refers to the obligation of respect, in practice, democratic and free fair elections and the protection of the legal and constitutional foundations of human rights of citizens in the electoral process of running by political parties, which deserves recognition of all MPs and political parties who supported the resolution, which I sent to the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the initiative and the requirement that the House of People also adopt a political position on this resolution in order for the complete Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have this position on a very important, very important, very important political document. And in line with earlier initiatives at the 84th session of the House of Representatives, this is a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 85th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the adoption of the following conclusions: Under 1. For the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the spirit of those requests requested by us by High Representative Švarc Šiling, when he held a plenary session here from both homes, he requested that this house and the other home work fully until the election of the new home in the new assembly, means that he performs his constitutional function, to schedule another session within the shortest period of time, until the end of the term of office, and to consider, after an urgent procedure, the adoption of the following laws and attitudes. Please one emergency session is I hope, probably the extent of the agenda and the complexity of the matter will probably insist that within a few days or weeks another session of the House of Representatives be scheduled. This is truly an opportunity to conclude to take a stand to order the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Resort Ministry of Civil Affairs to follow Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives under an urgent procedure in the parliamentary procedure, referred the Law on Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose text was prepared after a number of years and conducted public debates and is located in the Resolute Ministry of Civil Affairs. If that, if that
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25891	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25892	Unless the Council of Ministers agrees, I will use my authority and get to know the public that, using my constitutional right to propose the law under Article 105 by a reduced procedure. Not to mention the reasons why this House of Representatives finally has a political obligation and a moral obligation to adopt this law according to a large number of youth. 7 Taking a stand to order this home to the Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to follow Article 105. The Rules of Procedure in an urgent procedure in the parliamentary procedure directs the adoption of the prepared text of the Law on Lawyerry, which is important for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms whose proposal for the text was prepared by the Ministry of Justice and has received principled support from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OSCE and the OHR Office. Further under the point, further point: taking the position of the initiative to make additional efforts to re-adopt the urgent procedure, i.e. at today's session or next, to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples for the adoption of the Law on Higher Education because for a number of years there has been a public debate and to find political solutions for the final adoption of this law, whose draft text of law has been prepared in the Council of Ministers and the Resoring Ministry of Civil Affairs, which is the strategic need of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially because it is an exclusive request from the High Representative of the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina Kristijan Švarc Šilingo for the adoption of this law in this meeting of this House of Representatives and the House of Nationals. That this law was on the Constitutional and Legislative Commission, he got four, he did not get a positive opinion because there were 4 votes for, four abstentions, and I don't know who was against it, so it was a little missing, and one of those for, to go to parliamentary procedure with adopted amendments was me as a member of this committee and as an MP, I think it's my responsibility as a man and as a citizen, especially to the young people, where we all swear to create a place for them to be involved in world flows and to recognise their diplomas. Furthermore, taking a stand on the initiative I gave at last session, organised by the Constitutional Legislative Commission of the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Ministry of Justice, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, to hold a debate on the future strategy of a stable, better and more efficient financing at all levels of justice, courts,... laws in modern European countries. And that, in line with this, even better and that, according to this, conditions are created, even more favourable conditions for their even more efficient and faster implementation of the reform course in the functioning of the rule of law, is beyond the strategic task of the BiH state on the way to European integration. Please, I said that the initiative is the main reason for us and the judiciary, especially the BiH Court of Justice, as well as the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, to date the largest share has been financed from the donations of the international community. Thank the international community, and we ask that it continue to help us with our financial donations, to round up this, to reform the judiciary, and once again as a citizen, as an MP, I thank the international community, to all the donors who have succeeded. But this state, if we are determined to be the rule of law and all of that, then clearly needs to report this parallel that we are and because of that, that the concern of the judiciary and the stable financing and this legislative body is to adopt one such law that will allow a stable source of funding at all levels of judicial instance. And finally, I would like to remind myself of the 82nd session, at the last session, I also gave an initiative to take a political stance, according to my initiative as a participant at the educational seminar and part of the round table, in the period from 9 July to 13 July, at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels and NATO's Chief Staff and the need for additional engagement and 8 more active lobbying by the relevant institutions, and this, the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Defence to consider and the possibility of a decision before or at the upcoming NATO summit in Riga in the 11th month, that BiH will join the Partnership for Peace in NATO as soon as possible, which is the strategic interest of the citizens and the people of the BiH country in terms of security. I believe that these proposals are acceptable, that only conclusions are made and that this House, regardless of the pre-election activities that follow, will, until the moment we are motivated, first of all, have to perform its constitutional function as well as the Council of Ministers and all the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25893	Okay,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25894	I don't see any reason not to vote on this proposal and put,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25895	We will plead, Mr. Sipović, we have received a letter, we have heard you patiently,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25896	..I take the opportunity to chair, distinguished colleagues, and I, please, also use the opportunity to, I support all the proposals of the Members who have proposed
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25897	You will have the opportunity to declare yourself individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25898	.. Gligorić and this, in order to achieve the function and respect of the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of each MP, with full respect for you as a College.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25899	Thank you very much. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25900	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a proposal to supplement the agenda for two points of the agenda. If there's any good will, they'll be very expedient and I have two points of the agenda that I don't support, although it would be, I won't suggest. I've got two points I won't suggest and I'll tell you which. First, Mr. Chairman, I propose two agenda points offered by the latest developments under a completely unnecessary campaign that raises the country's international reputation and credibility. In fact, I understand that in the election campaign, we use different topics for everything. But I think there are some topics that this parliament should clearly say cannot be treated inappropriately in this pre-election campaign because they directly undermine the international reputation and credibility of the country's institutions. The impression is that some of the country's institutions are ready to also participate in the 9th pre-election campaign by being irresponsible in the last month's campaign. In fact, it is international agreements that are currently in circulation. I'm aware of these two agenda points not titled as information but as a report. Because the report requires that we conclude something, to stop the country's credibility from being destroyed, at least some eclastane cases. Niko one disputes the right in any part of the country to behave with the Constitution of this country. Niko one disputes the right in any part of this country to carry out the activities that it is allowed to carry out in accordance with the Constitution in a manner prescribed by laws, rules of procedure, international agreements. Niko one disputes the right of the Federation or the RS to make deals on special parallel ties with its neighbours. But what's wrong is that something like that is obviously only done in the function of a pre-election campaign, in violation of the Constitution and the legal procedure. I repeat again. I do not view it as illegal or illegal at all, the attitude of any part of the country to connect with other countries in accordance with international rights and with the needs of citizens living there. But I don't think it should be allowed to collapse by law and constitution because it is not in the function of creating better relations with our neighbours or better relations between us, but in the function of creating even worse relations with our neighbours and what is even worse, the worst relationships we can make between ourselves. I also think that Mr. Chairman, some institutions that are independent and should remain independent, but cannot be independent of the Constitution and the law. I cannot act as international actors on an international stage beyond the country's constitution and law. Especially when it comes to our international obligations, such as obligations to the International Court in The Hague. This whole introduction I think was enough as an explanation for the next two points of the agenda. First, I ask that today, today, the BiH prosecutor address us here and that the foreign minister of BiH address us. I know my good ones, and I know that I won't hear any of them smartly but they're obliged here to manifest themselves on this subject. They're bound to be on this subject and tell us if anything, calm down, everything's fine. Don't let the public get excited. Namely, I have been offered information that has been spinning in the media for several days, that negotiations are under way beyond how familiar I am with the country's institution on making a parallel, special contract on parallel special ties between RS and Serbia. I repeat, I do not dispute the right to do so, on the contrary. But I dispute the right to do so as a pre-election campaign in an unconstitutional and illegal way. That is why I propose, the agenda item, the foreign minister's report on the activities and status of negotiations on special ties with neighbours. I think the explanation is perfectly clear. There is no reason for both Čavić and Dodik to sign with Koštunica, Tadić, what they can sign in accordance with the Constitution by respecting this country's procedures, is not allowed, we are destroying our credibility to all of us and by no means contribute to anything good if we do so. And second Mr. Chairman, so I'm looking for a report not information. Secondly, the prosecution's report, the prosecutor's or prosecutor's report on agreements, co-operation with prosecutors from other countries and international institutions related to the processing of war crimes. I'm saying this because I'm shocked by the knowledge, and I'd like to be, the happiest I'd be to have a prosecutor come out here and deny us, to say that it's incorrect what it says in the paper. 10 Public information placed that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has signed an agreement with the prosecutors of neighbouring countries that war criminals will be prosecuted where they are caught. That's something, I don't get into the metrics at all anymore, when I get into the metrics, we're going to come up with different views that are legal and legitimate. But one country's prosecution cannot be allowed to make international agreements that are completely out of their jurisdiction. The BiH Prosecutor's Office cannot come to terms with the war crimes lawsuit of those who surrendered to BiH. And then war criminals choose where they are more comfortable to surrender. When we do that, we've made a new farce out of something that hangs like a rock around our necks. And that's why I think, I'd be happier, I think that for the sake of the public we are obliged to chair that today you as president in preparation for the next session, at the first break, contact the prosecutor and calm us down by telling us the truth is, the news reports are not correct. But if that is true, if that is true, then we must act in accordance with the Constitution and the law and preserve the independence and integrity of that institution by putting it in the right place in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I repeat, something like that is absolutely inadmissible for us to remain silent. Because I've been walking around for the last two days like all of you and people are and how in this country you're worried about whether it's true and if that's true, how it happened and what are the reasons why it happened. So, I think I made myself clear. And what I won't, Mr. Chairman, propose for the agenda, I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister here, because I think it's the same as talking, but when it's not there, there's no bench. The man said, we adopted in this parliament that by September 30th there will be a report on police reform. He has informed us through his favorite daily newspaper, which has been coming out in natural size for a long time, the truth is getting less and less, that police reform has failed. Do we need to learn from the front page of the daily newspaper from the prime minister that police reform has failed? And I'm not asking to put that item on the agenda, because it's a waste of time... but it's a shame that we came in a position to be Prime Minister, and we were asked to adopt that agreement, remember, right Špirić, you asked me to. There, and we adopted him. Oh, well, you've been looking for a lot of things, but that's what you've been looking for. And we adopted it. And then the Prime Minister, and I won't ask for it. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I'm suggesting to you as a College, I'm not going to ask for a agenda point, that you, as a College, try to spell out if you want and you can, some kind of conclusion, call this parliament at the end of the day, to join even the religious communities that say it will be this, neutral election and invite citizens to vote. Well, since the religious communities have already said that they will be neutral and invite citizens to vote, we, like Parliament, can say that we are neutral, that we invite them to come out to vote. So I suggest you make some conclusion, I'm not taking the stand on the agenda. I think it'd be good, but, yeah, it would be nice if the three of you could see together to sign under something that's good for everyone no matter who they vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25901	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25902	Good for everyone, SNSD slogan. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25903	See, I was just about to suggest a neutral conclusion. Mr. Sead Avdić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I have a proposal, which means one proposal, and that is the conclusion that you have received and that lies before you. That is, I would say the moral and political spirit of this Parliament towards people who, whose subject is still standing before the Council of Security of the United Nations and in this sense the conclusion which would have the following text, which is: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in view of the conclusions of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, requires the competent authorities to consider the decertified officers to be suspended workers with rights stemming from that status until the end of the BiH Council of Ministers' complaints before the UN Security Council and the possible revision of the decertification process. Explain this proposal, I think that, is unnecessary. This would finally get rid of, in part, the status of these people not on the principle of helping 50,000 marks, 100,000 and so on. In accordance with the power of the canton or, I don't know, the entity and, in that sense, wait for the possibility to enable audits of de-certified police officers and in that context, absolutely they have the right to be suspended workers with all the rights stemming from such a single status. I ask that, yes, let us adopt this item of the agenda and vote for this conclusion and others cannot, indeed, forgive and personally and in this Parliament, which is that the Council of Ministers does not feel the obligation and responsibility to report to this Parliament on four years of work in the past term of office. That's really embarrassing. I repeat once again, does he really not feel responsible and the obligation not to report his work to this Parliament. Which means I ask Parliament to ask the Council of Ministers, indeed, regardless of what many consider to be a pre-election campaign, that there is none of it, that simply Parliament is no longer, no credibility or conditional legitimacy to discuss these issues. Once again, I am simply looking for and trying to seriousise the situation and to say that the Council of Ministers has a responsibility for Parliament to report on its work during the past term of office and that ways and opportunities for this report to be considered and that there is one thematic session until the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25905	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Milorad Živković, let him prepare, we still have Mr. Belkić, so Mr. Izet Hadžić, Azra Hadžiahmetović. It's the order of the reported. After that, I conclude the debate on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25906	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you as chairman to stick to Rules of Procedure and Rule 50, in which the MP cannot present for more than three minutes nor elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda. I realize that some parties in the election campaign are not going well, thank God the SNSD is going quite well, and we don't need to use this pay phone and that last session for the election campaign, so we're going to stick to this agenda that we talked a lot about at the extended college. We're not going to expand it, and 12 of us are going to support any other part of the agenda. We were even thinking of leaving out the tenth item of the agenda since the Act on.... the signature was necessary to pass along with the Law on the Agency for the Information Society, but we will say more about it when this agenda point comes to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25907	Thank you very much. Mr Izet Hadžić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25908	I just want to propose to you the agenda item Report of the Commission to determine the foreign savings of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina placed on the bank's accounts by 31.12.1991. The report was received by the MPs. I think it's time for this, uh, this convocation to consider it, and I don't insist, to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25909	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25910	Dear colleagues and colleagues, i.e. colleagues and colleagues, I am very glad to hear who is going when it comes to elections, and I prefer to see that we are absolutely ready to work. This confirms this big debate 100% on the agenda and so on. Accordingly, accordingly, of course, we suggest that in the agenda, of course, I am very sorry that we did not keep the agreement as usual, which we do not keep from the extended College, people have opened up, now we are proposing that the following be included in the agenda the reports of the competent committees on the draft law, First, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, the Law on Higher Education, the Council of Ministers' delegate and the Proposal for a Law on radiation and nuclear security, also the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. For all three of these laws, there are reports and a final commission phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25911	Thank you very much. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25912	I thank the chairman. I have a need first, one correction, or correction of the wrong quote. There's no such thing as NATO's capital. There's a city in which NATO's headquarters is. 13 Second, for the debate on the agenda, I would like to ask one thing, and answer one question that is related to my proposal to item 14. Giving consent to ratification. Never has this parliament ratified a single project contract and I am surprised that today's project agreement from the Ministry of Communications and Transport is related to the air traffic management project and then under b) a fundamental agreement that is normally ratified by the BiH Parliament, which is the Treaty between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to air traffic management. So, I suggest that if there is no particular reason for the project contract to be ratified in this Parliament because we have never ratified any project contracts other than a fundamental one, that the contract under a) be removed from the agenda because the ratification of the contract under b) has ratified all documents including the project contract resulting from this. So, I suggest we take off the agenda point proposed here under a) which is the Project Agreement between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Directorate and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25913	Thank you very much. This was the agenda. I don't see anyone named individually, by name. So there's no replica. We got another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25914	Replic is the way to vote
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25915	Uh, another agenda debate. It's Momčilo Novaković. You've all been given the opportunity to explain your agenda, Mr. Sipović, and you're the most. I think I've been really correct as chairman and let me help you work. Mirsad
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25916	depends on how we vote, depends [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25917	It's already known how he's going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25918	You've already done that. You've completed your lab. You've had plenty of time. I'm running this session, Mr. Sipović. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25919	I don't have a proposal for a double agenda but we've got a lot of these suggestions here. I think it would be a good idea if your proposals were delivered in writing, let's see what we're being offered here right now. Because you see, this oralally very difficult I can now analyze 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25920	I'll remind you of all the suggestions as they were made, as chairman. We will plead out and everyone will have sufficient insight into what each of the MPs has suggested. And please cooperate. I think everyone's allowed to talk about the agenda, to make proposals, and the debate on the agenda is over. I'm moving on to a statement on proposals in order as they were. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. The first had a proposal by Mr. Šefik Džaferović to supplement the agenda under point 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers' Law, related to the BiH Co-ordinator's Office of the Brcko District. I think I've made myself clear and you all know what this is about. Prepare for a plea. Vote now. So this proposal has a general majority, no RS entity. Can we agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25921	No, no, let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25922	Well, we already have that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25923	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25924	All right, Nikola, say it, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25925	..in the second round of voting and over. Who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's against, who's
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25926	So there's no consent in college. We're going to the second round of voting. It's the ones who are against it. Vote now. 11 against RS, so this proposal to supplement the agenda has not passed. We move on to the second proposal to supplement the agenda, and this is Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, to supplement the agenda with the Proposal for a Law on Violations, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers from the 125th session. 15 You've been given an explanation. The procedure has been completed through the commission and, in the opinion of the legislator, this law is ready today for the agenda. Stand by. Vote now. So it's the same, please let's just concentrate on the statement now. No more discussion. Please, Nikola, be this one, correct according to procedure and decision-making. We have this, the general majority, we don't have an entity. We don't have the collegiate. We're going to the second round of pleas. I ask the MPs to plead in the second round, those who are against it. We don't have any here either, there's actually 2/3 against the RS, and this proposal for supplementing the agenda has not been accepted. We move on to the third proposal to supplement the agenda, which is a proposal submitted by Mr Tihomir Gligorić, to include the amendment and addition of the Law on the return of old foreign currency savings in the second reading as the 5th item of the agenda. Prepare to plead. Vote now. So, this proposal to supplement the agenda has received both a general and an entity majority and will be included as, no, it has been proposed and this proposal has been accepted as the 5th item of the agenda. That's what I read. Please, let's keep working. The fourth proposal is a proposal submitted by Mr Elmir Jahić regarding the election of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor-general that the conditions for this item to be found on the agenda have been met. I'm putting on a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. You're asking for a repeat vote, aren't you? I ask the MPs to accept this request for a re-election. Stand by. Vote now. And this proposal has received both a general and an entity majority. We move on to the next proposal to supplement the agenda, and this was the proposal by Mr Mladen Potočnik to include a proposal to ask the BiH Council of Ministers' Parliament to form a team to monitor all developments in the activities of neighbouring countries related to the free exit of BiH by sea to the world. Stand by. Vote now. And this proposal has received both a general and an entity majority. 16 We move to the next conclusion. This is a proposal by Mr Miloš Jovanović to supplement today's session's agenda with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in BiH, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Stand by. Vote now. And this proposal has received the necessary general and entity majority and has been included in today's agenda. Thank you very much. We move on to the next proposal to supplement the agenda. This is a proposal by Mr Mirsad Sipović to supplement the agenda of the 85th session of the House of Representatives with the conclusions you have in writing, each of which Mr Sipović orally explained. I would like to put forward a proposal to supplement the agenda according to Mr Mirsad Sipović's written proposal. Prepare to plead. Vote now. And this proposal has received the necessary and general and entity majority and has been included in the agenda. We move on to the next proposal to supplement the agenda. It is a proposal by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija to include in today's agenda the Foreign Minister's report on, if I may read the anti-constitutional
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25927	Activities
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25928	Activities. No, no, I'm just checking the handwriting here. Foreign Minister's report on the activities and status of the negotiations on special ties with neighbours. Did I read it right? Okay. And under the 2nd report,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25929	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25930	To keep two separate. Okay. GOLD
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25931	(no microphone turned on)
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25932	No, and the second addition to the agenda, as the second item of the agenda, is that right, Mr. Lagumdžija? It's like a second separate point. A report by the prosecutor on agreements on 17 co-operation with prosecutors from other countries and international institutions related to the processing of war crimes. Please prepare yourselves. First we vote on the Foreign Minister's report on special ties. Stand by. Vote now. So he has a general no entity majority. Second round of voting. Stand by. It's the ones who are against it. Vote now. So 2/3 of the RS is against, this conclusion is not accepted. We move on to Mr Lagumdžija's second proposal concerning the Prosecutor's Report on Cooperation Agreements with the prosecutors of other countries and international institutions related to the processing of war crimes. Stand by. Vote now. Coming through, do we? We don't have a second round of statements. Stand by. You'll get a list. I mean, the situation is clear. There's a general majority. There's no entity and we have to go to the second round of voting because there's no consent in the College. I ask the representatives in the second round to plead, those who are against. So 2/3 against RS, no second proposal by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has been accepted. Mr Sead Avdić has proposed that this House of Representatives be placed on the agenda a conclusion concerning the conclusions of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, which is required by the competent authorities that the dedertified police officers should be considered as suspended workers under the rights arising from this status until the Council of Ministers' appeal is completed before the Security Council and any revision of the decertification process. I am putting this proposal forward to supplement the agenda in the form of a statement conclusion. Stand by. Vote now. The proposal was accepted to supplement the agenda in the form of a conclusion submitted by Mr Sead Avdić. It has both a general and an entity majority. Thank you very much. 18 We move to the following requirements for supplementing the agenda. It was the first Mr. Izet Hadžić to complete the agenda with the Report of the Foreign Exchange Savings Commission laid down on the bank's accounts by 31.12.1991. I'm putting this proposal on the line. Stand by. Vote now. And this proposal by Mr Izet Hadžić. It has both a general and an entity majority and is included in the agenda of today's session. But we do, so we have enough. Thank you very much. We move on to the last proposal made by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Since there are three proposals for addition, they will go in order. Me, we still have Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal, I apologize. He'll be put on the agenda. So the first was the proposal by Mr Beriz Belkić to be included in the agenda of the Commission's report on the proposal for a law on higher education of the Council of Minsitarians. That report was usually negative. I'm putting Mr. Beriz Belkić's proposal on the agenda. Stand by. Vote now. We will repeat the vote, as Mr. Sipović requests. Stand by. Please vote now. Are you looking again, ma'am? I'm asking for a concentration of everyone. Stand by. Vote now. So he's got a general. He doesn't have an entity majority. Round two. Stand by. It's the ones who are against it. Vote now. So 2/3 against the RS, this proposal is not included, Mr. Beriz Belkić. We move on to Mr Beriz Belkić's second proposal to include the Commission's report on the proposal for a law on concessions from Mr Novakovic in the agenda today's session. Stand by. Vote now. Reenactment is required. Since we are at the end of our statement on the agenda, I'd like to ask for a little more patience. 19 Stand by. So we're voting on whether we're going to put the Commission's report on the proposal for a concession bill, Mr. Novakovic, on the agenda. Vote now. So this one, too, is the general majority whether or not there is no, there is no. So we move on to Mr Beriz Belkić's third proposal, which is the Commission's report on the proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security of the Council of Ministers. Stand by. Vote now. So the same situation as most, 23 for, the general majority, no entity. Let's go to the second round. It's the ones who are against it. Stand by. Vote now. So this proposal is included in the agenda. We're crossing, all right. Thank you very much, Mr. Živković. We move on to the latest proposal for changes and additions to the agenda. It was Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's proposal that today's agenda from the 14th item give consent to the ratification of the exceptions under a) The project agreement between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Civil Aviation Directorate and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the agenda. Please, according to the explanation she gave, we got this from the Bureau and we agreed on the Commission, and now here's the deal. Request to change the agenda and I put this to the vote. Stand by. Vote now. So he doesn't have an entity required majority. We have to do this. We're going to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25933	I suggest that when we get to that point that my colleague Azra repeats the same explanation and then that we do not create any traps for ourselves around the agenda. And I'm ready and I'm willing to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25934	Is this how we accept it? Here you go, we're on a plea now. We'll repeat the plea if we have to. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25935	My proposal was to remove the Project Agreement for the reason that the basic Treaty is under b) for ratification. Parliament has never ratified a project contract that stems from a fundamental one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25936	Well, here's the deal. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25937	The only thing that matters is how reasoned you are and how you want it to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25938	They delivered us to make a statement about it. Mr. Novaković, business intervention. Please, for a moment, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25939	I want a short one. I really cannot find in the Rules of Procedure a provision by which you put this on the vote, Mr. Chairman, because it is clear in the Rules of Procedure that mandatory points of the agenda cannot be removed and cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25940	Please don't discuss this. By consulting with the Secretary of the House, we, by putting this proposal on the stand, held that any changes to the agenda should be, should be decided, and thus we managed the meanings. But this stays on the agenda and we'll discuss this under the point of granting consent to ratification, make it clear whether this can have House support or not. Thank you very much. We have exhausted the statement of all proposals for the completion of the agenda. Since there have been more, of which a significant portion has been accepted, I am giving a five-minute break to sort out this agenda and inform you of the agenda. Five minutes, please. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I find that the 85th session of the House of Representatives has the next agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 84th session of the House of Representatives, 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers' Law following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure No 01,02-03-9-35,33/06 of 15.09.2006, 21 3. The request of MPs Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić to consider the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH under Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Market Control Act in BiH, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a drug and medical law in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an account of old virgin savings, second reading, Proposer Tihomir Gligorić, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act, First Reading, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in first reading, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MP Nikola Špirić, in first reading, 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, Proposer of Representative Ruža Sopta, First Reading, 11. Proposal for a law on electronic signature, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in BiH, in first reading, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers in First Reading, 14. Special Report of the Ombudsman for Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with complaints concerning the length of the proceedings, 15. Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget for the period of office 2002-2006, 16. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of BiH's defence and security structures at BiH level for the 2002-2006 mandate, 17. Report by the Commission to determine the foreign exchange savings situation of BiH citizens placed on bank accounts 31.12. 1992, 18. Appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor of Bosnia and Herzegovina and under 19. Giving consent to ratification and under (a) the Project Agreement Air Traffic Management Project between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Civil Aviation Directorate of BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and under (b) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Project managed by air traffic c) the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, 20. Proposal for a conclusion on BiH's exit to the sea, proposed by MP Mladen Potočnik, 21. Proposal for a conclusion in relation to de-certified police officers, Proposer of Representative Sead Avdić and under 22. The proposal for a conclusion tabled by Mr Mirsad Sipović. 22 We move to the realization of the agenda, under 1st point, Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 84th session of the House
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25943	Here are some other remarks other than the technical error in the record there when I suggested about the resolution, not 26 voted in favour and 1 abstention, but 31 for and 1 abstention. So if you can figure it out in that context, the rest of me have no objections.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25944	Thank you very much. I ask to accept this intervention, technically, Mr. Sipović. - With 26 votes and enough entity majority, we accepted the minutes from the 84th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Law No.01,02-02-9-35,3/06, of 15.9. this year I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state your request for a procedure as referred to in Article 105. Stand by. Vote now. We have accepted 30 votes for and 3 against, without abstention and enough entity majority procedure under Article 105 for this request by the Council of Ministers. We're moving on to a statement on the law. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. I agree that with 30 votes for, 4 against, a sufficient entity majority, we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers' Law. Law No 01,02-02-9-35,3/06 of 15.09.2006. Thank you very much. 23 Moving to the third item of the agenda, that's Add.3. Proposal for amendments to the Rules of Martin of the Raguž House Šefik Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Špirić to Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25950	Here's to helping, berize, and then afterwards, it's no problem. My goal is to help. I will, Buriz.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25951	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25952	No, I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, it is of course an important legal project. He's in second reading. I've renewed two amendments. I know that it is important for this law to be passed and in this regard, given that the committee in charge has adopted 27 amendments, I ask my colleagues who have renewed the amendments so that we do not open the debate today. I'm willing to withdraw my two amendments, please the others, assuming there are good amendments, so we don't have political debates. It's not an ideal law like the others, it'll be time to change. So, I will withdraw my amendments, please my colleagues to do so and of course their relationship will depend and my position definitely on the law. But here's my, my contribution to today's adoption of the law is the withdrawal of my amendments. I would like colleagues, who have also renewed the amendments, to do the rest, otherwise if we declare amendments, and some amendments are adopted, that may also change our view of the law, or my view of the law. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25953	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. You heard he pulled his amendments. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25954	Well, I can't say that Mr. Špirić didn't make a contribution to this debate, but you didn't help me out with anything special. As far as I'm concerned, I would support the Amendment II you gave me, but I was reporting for the next one. So I have submitted three amendments, but today I have directed towards the College, to say the modification of these amadenamans which are the result of a kind of compromise and knowledge of some new aspects of this matter that I have intervened in the amendments. I didn't really know that our control labs at this point weren't fully trained to control serums, vaccines and bioimmunological drugs, etc. And in that direction I intervened and modified my amendment. So Nikola and I have made certain that so to say compromises and modified amendments in relation to those I have submitted. I ask the College to allow these amendments in practice to be corrected in some way compared to those I had previously given. So I do not insist on the amendment of Article 4 assuming that Joz Križanović's amendment is supported. I have modified Amendment 65, and I don't think it has anything to do with politicizing, but simply protecting our consumers, simply bringing our country into the same position as other countries do when it comes to this kind of traffic. Remember that every drug is like a bullet, at least that's what people have taught me when I've been talking about these months, and this thing is very serious, and I think these amendments that I'm talking about, so these three amendments absolutely don't politicize things, but they improve the situation, they protect our consumers, and they bring Bosnia and Herzegovina into an entirely equal position like the others. Without these amendments, the Party for BiH MPs' club will not support the law. They're not against anyone, Nikola. These are also amendments for citizens in Banja Luka. Be safe. In the same way, they protect citizens all over the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25955	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25956	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me say that the SDP, or Mr Jozo Križanović, is asking for a statement on these amendments to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25957	Okay. So we had suggestions and to withdraw the amendment and stay. So the amendments stay on the table, because those who proposed them don't give up, some give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25958	I'd like to ask the College to plead. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25959	As president of the House, I find your proposal constructive because it rationalises the amendments. No, no, we're going to make a statement about a new version where the one where the man reduces the number of amendments. He's got that. Well, come on, it's nothing to argue with, it makes it easier for Nikola. It's really making it easier for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25960	Ćeman asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25961	So you've all got here you can get.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25962	Please, I've respected it, this is the first time you've modified the amendments, etc. He's going on some kind of verification, some kind of approval. Here's my respect. So that's what I did, and that's what I did. Members of Parliament do not have that amendment modified, because I have respected that the College approves, or does not approve of me these circumstances of new, new knowledge and attempt to compromise. And I went to my colleague's office and asked the College to let me do it. Obviously Mr. Špirić won't allow it. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25963	Mrs. Nadžida Mlačo, then Mr. Altić, then Mr. Ćeman. If I see it right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25964	My colleagues and colleagues and the SDA Club this morning submitted amendments to the Drug and Medical Devices Act, but we didn't get them on the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25965	Thank you very much. That's what we'll consider when we've finished the debate now to see. Mr. Altić, please, so Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25966	The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Assistance is a very important and very important law. I say that as a doctor, and only in other terms as an MP. According to my assessment, my personal assessment, without consulting others, that law is very bad, very bad, and it does not lead to what it aims for. There's no improvement. There's even more chaos. You know how flooded Bosnia and Herzegovina is with various medicines from various companies, from various states. We're poisoning ourselves. They also poisoned us during the war, and now they want to make such a law that will allow the certificates issued in another country to apply to us. It's nowhere to be used. 27 I would not tell you about the importance of how important this is for the life and health of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what you all know, and you know the situation. I don't think it's going to work. It is better to accept, there are good amendments that improve the law and yet somehow mitigate the situation that is present on the drug market. The amendments should not be rejected, but in order to make a fine suggestion, I agree with the chairman that the amendments remain and that we vote on them and plead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25967	I thank Mr. Alkić. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25968	It was suggested that eventually someone gave up the amendment to make it easier for the law to come. Here I am ready to withdraw the amendment that I have renewed, Amendment II, applies to Article 83, which adds a new position 4. So I'm pulling that one back, and I'm looking for a statement on this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25969	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Elmir Jahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25970	So here I would just like to explain, so the SDA Club has put one amendment to Article 65, and it's actually done on the basis of whether or not we've been notified of the full possibilities our center has of whether it's for analysis, which drugs can be analysed and whether it's an adequate control of these drugs. And hence, those medicines that cannot be controlled in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we make them one whether it is a concession to have the certificate of some neighbouring country. However, it is not just about this amendment, there are other amendments that are truly unacceptable to me, and this is therefore one example of a law that is not done in the way it should be done. We have an excellent example, so from our four-year practice where MPs were actively involved in the adoption of laws as these laws passed, and not elsewhere, and then, in some accelerated procedure, Parliament is trying to impose legislation. I'm really here as a doctor. I don't think this law is good. I personally am not ready to support unless these few amendments are accepted here both Mr. and Križanović, Belkić, Ćeman, etc. And this is our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25971	Thank you very much. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25972	Chairman, I think it is very important that we pass the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we think carefully about this before we make a statement about the amendments. We at the SNSD Club are asking for a 10-minute break before the amendments are made to see if we can agree on this bill to get support, and it's easy to bring it down if it's necessary. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25973	Thank you. I fully support this thinking by Mr. Milorad Živković, and I have therefore suggested that these active positions of MPs in giving up, or in streamlining amendments facilitate everyone's situation and ask clubs to act in this direction. So the next order is, please follow me, Mr. Belkić, who else answered for a word on this matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25974	In order to help.../connection with a cut short/ he is practically the same, there is one thing where they leave the possibility that a competent minister in certain situations can approve that imports without control in the country with a certificate outside for a particular case of a difficult situation. So his amendment, Club SDA, basically opens up this possibility that my amendment practically didn't give here, didn't give. So now in that break we can agree, so I'm ready for this amendment 65, because the SDA, the SDA, has practically done the same thing, that we don't have two amendments. So I'm ready to talk to the SDA Club, here's to pull this amendment, this text because this one opens up the possibility, the more elastic possibility that a man doesn't run out of medicine, God forbid. Although, I was persuaded by the profession that we, that it was registered drugs, etc. who is always in one of the pharmacies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's never a situation that happens that you can't find a cure etc. But here I am, so I'm still ready, Mr. Špirić. However, because you are sending out indications that the law cannot be passed if any amendment is made. And I'd really like to hear what's wrong with these amendments? No, no, I'd really like to hear what's wrong with these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25975	What's that to me?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25976	No, no, I'd really like to hear what's wrong with these amendments. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25977	The problem is I won't vote for the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25978	Sure, great. That's a great explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25979	Okay. I see there are no more reports to discuss. I'm setting a 15-minute recess at the SNSD Club's request. Before you do, please just give me a second. I've asked Mr. Novaković twice. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25980	I'm sorry, Chairman, but here I'm just curious about the code, what, with Mr. Belkić's amendment. He says so - Amendment I am ready to withdraw on condition that the alternative amendment of Joza Križanović to Article 10.St. 2 is supported. That amendment is not in the procedure. It's not restored. [[Common discussion]] Is it restored?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25982	I said they were restored. Fifteen minutes, please don't go any further because we're all busy later. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. We're at the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Proposed drug and medical laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25985	Two, member 65 and member 80? [[not sounding well]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25986	So we have Amendment II, I, II and III right. And we have amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Party of Democratic Action on Article 65. 30 [[Common discussion]] You have a loan with me, Mr. Novaković. And I know you'll be constructive, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25988	I didn't hear you say that, just to repeat that last thing you said, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25989	Let me do it again. I've now recapitulated what we're going to say, nothing more, and how we're from one to one you'll know what this is about, not to repeat, I'm going to read these amendments now. I'm on my own by the suggestors. I'm not leveled right now. I'm asking you to keep that in mind because it wasn't a different option. So we have how I read it I'll go now. The amendment and Mr. Joza Novaković, that is the future, but I am very sorry to Mr. Joza Križanović and Momčilo Novaković were not real. So the amendment and Mr. Joza Križanović. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. If we do, we'll go to the second round of pleas. Prepare to vote those who are against. Vote now. More than 2/3 of RS v. The amendment was not accepted. We move on to the declaration of amandman ii to Mr Joza Križanović. Stand by. Vote now. It has a general, no entity majority. Let's go to the second round, get ready. Vote now, those who are against the vote. He didn't win, he didn't get the necessary majority because they have 2/3 against the RS. amandman II. has not been accepted either. We'll also come forward with the alternative to Amendment II to honor all of this here. Stand by. Vote now. It has a general, no entity majority. The second round of votes, the ones who are against it. Vote now. 2/3 against RS, no alternative to Amendment II to Mr Joza Križanović has been accepted. 31 We move to a statement on the amendments submitted by Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. And that is the amandman i Article 34. Stand by. Vote now. Let's go to the second round of voting, get ready. Vote now, those who are against it vote. 2/3 against the RS. This amendment has not been supported. We move to a statement on amandman III of Mr Mirsad Ćeman to Amendment V of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Prepare to plead. Vote now. We go to the second round of voting, the ones who are against it vote. Vote now. Neither has this amendment been supported because they have 2/3 against the RS. Coming through, we have more amendments to Mr. Beriz Belkić and the Party of Democratic Action Club. So now we're voting on the amendments you received on the tables from Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25990	Amendment II
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25991	What about the amendment and you give up, done, well. It shall mean Amendment II to Article 45. This is the version, the last version, of article 65. Stand by. Vote now. This amendment has both a general and an entity majority. And this amendment accepted, Mr. Beriz Belkić's amendment. We still have Amendment III on Article 80. Stand by. Vote now. We go to the second round of voting, only those who are against it vote. Vote now. Amendment III of Mr Beriz Belkić, 2/3 against the RS, was not accepted. We're moving on to the last amendment. It's an amendment submitted by the SDA Club to Article 65. Stand by. Vote now. It has a general, no entity majority. 32 The Second Circle. Stand by. Vote now. 2/3 against RS. I find this amendment to the SDA Club not accepted. That concludes our statement on the amendments. Recapitulation, only Amendment II of Mr Beriz Belkić was accepted under Article 65 of this Act. We're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. Stand by. Vote now. The law did not receive the general majority and the Law was not accepted in the second reading. Thank you. We're moving on. Please. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign exchange savings account, second reading At the 84th session, we adopted the proposal for this law in our first reading. The Commission adopted one amendment. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. So there were no amendments to the plenary phase. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Gligorić. I think you've given enough as a proposal this morning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we've said enough and I appreciate what you've said to Mr. Chairman, because we don't practically have in the second reading of detail means the amendment phase, but we're voting practically on the law right now as a whole. In order for no one to take it wrong now, I don't want to irritate anyone, I think we should pass this law, we think these people deserve to be done, that the government hasn't really taken this seriously so far. We have convinced ourselves of countless examples and so I would really ask that in this case we approach really seriously, that, of course, Club Mixed Club will support this and that it will approach the serious solution of this problem when the law is passed, which is how it would be done when a little bit of greed is seen in the second and third year that it is paid, that, in that case, if a serious problem arises here, the savings are always ready to move after such an analysis for a year, or two. This is what I say goodbye to those who said it would be good for eight years now. Why didn't you say that when it was 39, then 13 and that's why I think this is an optimal and happy solution. Let's send a good message to our citizens today and pass this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25994	Thank you very much. I don't have any more logs. Deputy Minister. Here you go. Deputy Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25995	When this was adopted in April, the Law on the settlement of liabilities under old foreign currency savings was adopted, according to the document, that is, entity governments acted, and those programmes have so far been followed by the adoption of the Law in the commitments made. Therefore, a document of the indicative budget was adopted by 2008 etc. I would like to stress here most seriously that this proposal to amend this law, i.e. shortening the deadline and introducing 5% interest, is unsustainable, above all because it would endanger the country's macroeconomic stability. The consequences would be credit ratings, a currency arrangement would be compromised, fiscal sustainability could also not survive, relations with international institutions would deteriorate. In fact, the subject was also declared by the AMF, the IMF, OHR, the Economic Commission, the World Bank. On two occasions, the IMF asked the esteemed home to reject the bill in a second reading. What does that mean if a currency arrangement were compromised? It means that we would return to the phase of instability, in order to achieve inflation, the function of the budget, as an entity, of the general government, we can say, means that all the socio-political communities in BiH could not perform their basic functions. First of all, fiscal, social and economic. The solution to this situation would only be in new borrowing, and we know that the state, that the economy is already being burdened, or the introduction of new taxes. New borrowings could not be concession loans, but would be commercial loans with very high interest. I would like to repeat once again, as a result of this, anything that has been achieved today on the issue of the country's macroeconomic stability would have prevented the flow of investment. All of us know that Bosnia and Herzegovina should enter the cycle of development in the next period and therefore need a credit rating. First of all, I'm thinking about Corridor Vc and other capital investments. I repeat once again that the functions of the entity's budget would be compromised. I ask these MPs to bear in mind what entity governments are, that they responded immediately and that they are against this reduction in deadlines. That's it. Once again, I ask you to make sure that when this law is passed, the country's macroeconomic stability must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25996	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić, second vice president of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25997	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed chairman, I think it is better that my colleague Kumalić will not be angry that the Council of Ministers is not sending anyone, but to explain this to us. We need a clear view whether this is an acceptable proposal for the Council of Ministers, or not an acceptable proposal. Please don't talk to us like that, take care. We're not insecure. We'll take care of it. We need a government budget that will clearly say, this bill can be realised, or it can't. We're MPs. We want a clear view of the Council of Ministers. And don't, you take care, so you know. So go on, and we need the Council's position on whether or not it's a minister. Whether it has an entity government position, it's for or against people being able to give themselves up. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25998	We heard that, but here's what you're looking for. Here you go. We heard who was listening. Mr. Zorić called after the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u25999	I think that the Council of Ministers and Governments are entityal against this proposal budgets cannot and could not fulfil these obligations if this proposal was adopted. What does that mean? I will repeat the last time I was saying that public debt is a 60-point point 8%, that this new debt obligation, i.e. an obligation based on old foreign exchange savings, is two billion and that, thanks to the stable growth of the budget, it can only be settled by 2020, or those 13 years as projected in the proposal for a law on the settlement of liabilities under the old foreign currency savings. Therefore, our attitude is clear. The Council of Ministers, or entity governments, cannot fulfil these obligations.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26000	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26001	When I was president of a municipality ten years ago, I was sitting with three or four lawyers and I told them they should have done it. They all said in a voice they couldn't. I said I couldn't need you at all. I'm also telling this Council of Ministers that we don't need you. We don't need you at all. People were robbed. Where's that money? It's me, like here, who's interested in where the money is, and not whether it's money or danger, to make people feel bad, to jeopardize a project like Corridor 5c which is unremarkable to mention here in front of people and in front of citizens who will listen to this through the media or through journalists who will pass it on to the media tomorrow. The money was there, now it's gone, someone took it. Are you suggesting that you're willing to rob a man today to make Corridor 5c? It is not a good message to these here representatives of a large population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it would be better to keep quiet than to say anything behind this pay phone. I don't think it's a good message and I want to hear it when that money can come back? When and under what conditions? Here is the law proposed, my colleague Gligorić suggested, there is no alternative to this law except the impossible. I repeat, we don't need any Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26002	Thank you very much. No more, Mr. Sipović. Please consider this session today. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26003	Indeed, there is a very serious problem ahead of us, and several times this law has been discussed. I can't help thinking that without clear budgets, without arguments, to say, here's the deputy minister says only after 13 years. I have never seen as an MP these 35 indicators from the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance. By which parameters has been determined for 13 years, why no compromise solution has been proposed, perhaps 8 years or so. Simply in that context, we here as parliament are afraid of something and you say we're going to jeopardize the fiscal and the constitution and this. I feel here the irresponsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry as if it were our problem. It is not a problem for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and your problem as executive authorities, which you need for us as MPs to come up with arguments to say that we are responsible for passing the law or, or we do not accept the law and in what frameworks. I think it's inadmissible for the executive authority to question this home that gave her confidence to suggest certain things to him. It's been said here all along that he can't do it but without the arguments he can't. And then let me ask, I'm nowhere in, I'm not an expert in the area of finance, but here I have little knowledge, I don't know how, how, how the budget, how the deputy minister got to an aproximative budget from 2008. Which parameters and what that means. That means that this state, you're claiming to us as executive power, as a resolute ministry, that we don't have any progress in that rise of what's called both budgets and gross social product. I mean, the fact that such a message to the citizens and to us MPs is very disappointing that the executive power, the experts you hire, cannot give us a brighter future. I'm sorry, gentlemen, if you've learned that only the European, international community donates you to this country and then on the other hand you want independence. Well, it can't be. So you have a responsibility. I am very disappointed with the full procedure of the Council of Ministers, the exclusiveness and especially the dissuasive ministry which has not convinced me, as MPs, of the arguments to make myself clear. Let's find some compromise solution and get to this situation, but you're pushing hot potatoes here at the MPs, except you're just afraid that this country is going to collapse financially and that it's going to go bankrupt. I think that, that the resolution ministry is inadmissible that in such a obligatory principled position, a politicised position, without arguments puts this home in a position and that it cannot respond to its task in the right way. I had to say it because, for the sake of the public to say it, because I was an advocate, an advocate to adopt this law, and to spend the rest of our lives at home to find a way after two or three months. I mean, then, if you'll excuse the Council of Ministers and Finance, then you've led the MPs here astray, deceived us into passing that law, and now you're not gonna let us find a compromise solution. It's like it's our problem at home and this isn't the problem of this country. I must say that this is inadmissible as the executive authority behaves and I have always supported the executive authority and the Council of Ministers for certain things that are good, and in this field I cannot support them. And I've been put in a situation where I'm thinking whether or not I'm gonna uphold the law, or I'm gonna give it a abstention, against it. For your point of view, I might support it, but since I'm responsible, I don't know if I'm gonna be held back. So you're putting me in a situation I don't know about one delusion and the citizens and these are saving and this is really distracting them. My colleague, esteemed Gligorić, says, please, state and government legislative and executive and this one must be held accountable to the citizens and his human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26004	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. Mrs. Perkanović. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26005	Dear Chairman, here Mr. Kumalić said one word "thinks" that the entity governments cannot return within 5 years of foreign exchange savings. And I'll say I think he can. But I'm asking if they know how to do it, if they know how to solve this problem. If they don't know, I think there are some people who do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26006	Thank you, Mrs. Perkanović. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the amendment law proposal and amendments to the Law on the reconciliation of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings in the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. He's got a general majority, he's got no 1/3.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26007	There's no 10 from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26008	There's one voice missing from the Federation. Can we get along? We're going to the second round of pleas. Only those who are against it vote. Please prepare to repeat ourselves. It's the ones who are against it. Stand by. Vote now. So there's no 2/3 against it. The law is also accepted in the second reading. I'm setting a break because we have, uh, a meeting together for, like, half an hour lunch break. We'll continue fifteen to three. [[PAUZA]] Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act in First Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26011	We have a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26012	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26013	Namely, the report we received here on the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Council of Ministers does not maintain what is being adopted on the committee. Namely, Amendment II, which I have proposed, which was adopted, does not read as written in the report. The report says that the Council, to add the words "executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina" which is not true but instead the words "President of the Council of Ministers" add the words "Government and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina" and that is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26014	We got a fix.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26015	Well, we got it, but the chairman didn't say that, look, I have to say that, they have colleagues at the end of the constitutional-legal committee, we've agreed to that. In the first version, I was proposing a solution that was here, so it's said that it's not fragmatic, it's not realistic, and we agreed on a solution that went later like this amendment. I ask you to respect that technical correction and then we can approach the vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26016	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Ćeman, chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26017	Well, it looks like it's about the technical nature of this dispute right now of detail and moment, but maybe not. I will try very briefly, I have consulted myself, I have actually reviewed this report with a few members of the Commission with whom I have arrived to do so. We don't do a stenogram, we don't record a commission session, and there were really various variations in modifying the amendments as counterpart Novaković said. And I got, as chairman, not only the impression, but that's how I took the session and ran it, and so in the end, at least it seems to me we voted, so thinks the other part of the Commission that the report is what it is. However, to be honest, if Dom thought that it made sense, this nothing here would fundamentally change except that this economic planning directorate in what his colleague is and how he understood his colleague, Novaković, would work at the request of the Council of Ministers, of course, but also the executive bodies of the entity and Brcko District, and not lower levels than that. One of the variants for which we are here, including me who chaired the session, is the view that in the end she passed was that she could, on the proposal and initiative of all executive bodies of all levels, work. 38 Therefore, two possible approaches at this time, or that the Commission sits down to clear this issue, I don't know what the majority is yet, although here are three four colleagues I consulted, think it's as I think it is, or we really consider this a formal act because whatever it is, it makes sense and it only reduces itself to the entities and the Council of Ministers. So, if some colleagues here don't create a problem about what they do, then I'm inclined to say
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26018	We're not creating, here's the answer to adopt immediately. It's an important legal solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26019	Let it be, that, then so, just a little bit, we'll adopt and then we'll verify it on the Commission as a final solution. The problem is, in fact, that at the session itself without a precise formula, that's how counterpart Novaković turned out to be a pear at the time of the modified amendments. So it's not a bad habit and it might happen. A colleague Andrić and some others if they think it won't be a problem, then we accept this approach and that the law goes on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26020	Thank you, sir. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26021	Here's where it looks like we're gonna get this complicated, too. This is exactly what the man wrote, and that's how we adopted it. I suggest this is considered a technical correction and we vote for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26022	Thank you very much. Not even Mr. Ćeman slowed down that dimension. I think we're clear. Here you go, Mr. Sipović, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26023	And I think this is a technical mistake. I support my colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26024	Thank you. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I propose that in addition to this technical correction that we have received from Novaković, the member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, let us state on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Vote now. So with 28 votes for and one against, enough entity majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act was adopted in the first reading. 39 The sum of the dynamics we have been warned of, I suggest we make a statement about the second reading. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote for second reading now. With 26 votes in favour and one against, without abstention, we have decided by the entity majority enough to go to another reading. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. We move on to a statement on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. With 29 votes, one against, without abstention, enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in both readings. Thank you very much. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers in First Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26027	I would just like to remind myself that all of this has occurred in the first place and that the decision was practically the House of Representatives of the Parliament from the 63rd session of 27.7 was to make an amendment and to abolish those two tariff numbers that imported meat, ham and dick, that those two numbers were removed from these contingents, and that instead of 4 times a year they were reduced to 2 times a year. It was basically that one. So this was our insistence on insistence actually at the request of the Commission, and then confirmed by the House. I believe there's no reason not to adopt this kind of thing here and that this is consistent with what happened several times in the House debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26028	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Sipović. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26029	Mr. Chairman, this wasn't on my insistence. So, of course, it may be on the House's insistence, but I wasn't in the circle of those who voted for this. I will not support this law today either because I think moving with practical control instead of four pts a year, twice a year actually creates a space for greater manipulation means when it comes to this problem of importing meat, or meat processing, so I will remain with that bill that we have adopted earlier in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26030	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26031	Well, I just wanted to support what my dear colleague Majkić said, that was the conclusion of the House. I also appreciate the opinion of the esteemed colleague Novaković, but I think the proposal is that, at the conclusion of the House, changes and additions have been made and that the suggestion is to support these amendments in order to even praise the Council of Ministers who have done so in this context.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26032	Thank you. I don't have any more reports to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Customs Tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the first reading of the declaration. Stand by. Vote now. It has a general, no entity majority. We're going to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26033	You don't have Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26034	And that he's here. There's no consent. If he has consent, then the law has been passed. Well, if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26035	We count as if there isn't. Let's go vote. [[Common discussion]] We didn't get along. Here I am not in agreement. Let's vote. I mean, don't complicate things. Here. If it's all right, I voted for the law, but let's move on. Just. Vote those who are against the law, let's see where we are. There. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26037	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26038	Well, I can't think, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26039	Tell Mr. Novaković. Here you go. Business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26040	It's a college thing to do. Given that the College is not complete, it is not possible to comply, and not agreeing means at today's session, the only thing left is that this law is thus agreed within the legal period of 48 hours. That's the only way. There's no other solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26041	Wait a minute. Call Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26042	He's gone, he's gone. He said he had to go. What can I do now? What can I do now? There's nothing, I can't, here's a warning for me and the Secretary of the House, but I think there were circumstances for us to go to the second round, but I won't go past the Rules of Procedure. [[Common discussion]] We move to the ninth item of the agenda, that is, Ad.9 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, Proposer of Agent Nikola Špirić Who submitted this proposal on 22.03. this year. You have received an opinion from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which, the committee responsible has requested an extension of the deadline pending the opinion of the Management Board. The report was submitted by the relevant commission on 30.08, which supported the draft law and proposes to Dom for consideration and adoption. There were no amendments. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on this law in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. So it has both a general and an entity majority. 42 Since there have been no amendments, I suggest we make a statement about the second reading. Vote now. Let's do another reading. We have a general and entity majority. I would ask the MPs, since there were no amendments to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of the Proposer Nikola Špirić and in the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. With a sufficient general and entity majority of 24 votes in favour of, 4 against, 3 abstentions, the draft law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Tariff Act, proposed by Nikola Špirić in both readings, was adopted. Thank you very much. We're going to the tenth point, that's Ad.10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, Proposed by Ms. ruža Sopta's representative in first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26048	Well, you see, this respected colleague, I'd be sorry not to go out for a pay phone and not say what I'm about to say now and it's about one of these three laws relating to the addition of the law and the amendment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Tariff Act. We here today as Parliament adopted two laws proposed by two colleagues Nikola Špirić and Mrs. Ruža Sopta and I voted, of course, for both of these laws and the only law we did not pass is the law proposed by the state government, so the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that I can stay deaf and dumb and kick the crap out of me. I went out for this pay phone to trouble this thing. So that's about what I'm going to suggest. Not a single member of the College can bring this Parliament, by its lack of presence, that Parliament cannot function. Not a single member. One of the three of us can die here now and this Parliament must continue to work. And that's why there's someone in the Rules of Procedure who can leave the session, but Parliament has to be in office and it has to work. I ask the Secretary of the House to take the Rules of Procedure and tell us what happens when there are no members of the College here, such a situation has been resolved, I think, by the Rules of Procedure, by having MPs from a certain people, because we come from a people here, to determine the person who will be a member of the College at the session itself when there is no member of the College to overcome this situation because there are no members of the College and bring this procedure to an end. I beg you to do so. I think it's a great shame that we turned down the government's proposal today, so she's following it, and thank God we accepted and helped some economic operators like "BIMAL" Brcko, then this company that manufactures diapers, this one down in Shiroki Brijeg, I have nothing, therefore against it. I'm asking this thing, first of all, to disintegrate and then move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26049	I ask Mrs. Branka Todorović, secretary of the House of Representatives, to speak to us. Please, for a little while, we're doing a good job, let's try and solve this positively. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26050	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable members of the colleges standing here, sitting here, I would like to warn you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and I am sorry to have a different opinion from Mr Džaferović, but that is no reason not to bring my opinion here. According to Article 65. The Rules of Procedure that I quote - if most votes do not contain 1/3 votes from the territory of each entity, or if it turns out that the quorum is missing, the chairman may set a break of up to 60 minutes during which he will try to find a solution. So this isn't mandatory, but it can be determined. In the event of a lack of majority if the issue is not resolved, the chair shall convene the College after a break within 3 days to reach agreement. The provision is clear, I don't think we need a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26051	Mr. Džaferović, again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26052	So, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's not a question of what the secretary read, so that's really how it is, and my intervention didn't actually go that way. So I have nothing against the Rules of Procedure because Mrs. Todorović read what it says in the Rules of Procedure. We have therefore had practice here in Parliament, and it is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure at all, that we agree or disagree at sessions, today all day we have agreed on all matters immediately or did not agree, and the House immediately declared itself. And my question does not apply to this issue, and I ask that I be told what is written in the Rules of Procedure in case a member of the College is absent, or when he is prevented from doing his duty. He is currently prevented from carrying out his duty, and therefore this parliament must not suffer. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26053	Mr. Ćeman, let's try to resolve this, please. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26054	I will not engage in this controversy, we have heard different opinions, I would still support Mr. Džaferović's position. In the end, it is not a violation of the procedure that this parliament would bring into place or anyone else in order to say, the position not to affirm its obligation and Mr Špirić, if he has a valid reason, I am not going to enter into it, perhaps it should have been more flexible today, since here is the effort to adopt as many laws as possible to make the final score even this calls better. I did not, although I have actually suggested that the draft Law on Misdemeanors be included in the agenda, I accept the results of the vote, but the fact that we have adopted the Law amending the Safety and Traffic Safety Act on Roads would indeed make sense, and I do not see that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, for the sake of the fact and those reasons of others, to return to the question of the Law on Infringements in order to round this set. 47 I can only remind this place because we adopted this one on amendments to the Law of Infractions. Otherwise I wouldn't. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26055	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Again, once again, Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26056	You see, colleagues and colleagues, when I came to this duty, I studied well, I'm fine,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26057	Please, I'm asking the MPs to
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26058	So, I've studied the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives well, and I know, I've been kept somewhere in my head that there's a possibility, a solution to this situation. Therefore, in Article 18 of our Rules of Procedure, the College is said to be the chairman, the first vice-president and second vice-president of the House. This is said in point 1 and paragraph 2 is said – in the event that the seat of the chairperson, the first vice-chair or second chairman remains vacant, the House will select one of its members from the same constituent people to whom the chairman or vice-president will belong and who will fill the vacancy. So, you don't say what kind of maturity it is or say how long this mandate is going on, but I think this home has to function, this provision needs to be interpreted so that the House has to be operational regardless of the will of a man. I can get out of here now and make it impossible for you to do what your colleague did. Look, if we're already interpreting that we have to be all three at all times present, I've tried to interpret that we don't have to be. And I repeat, if there's any good will, beware, I mean this doesn't mean anything that I'm saying if there's no will to pass this law. This law will fall. I'm just saying that there's a formal business exit from this situation, if there's any good will left. And there should be some correctness for the sake of it, because I say, I repeat, on a proposal from two colleagues with, we have made changes in customs tariffs, and we did not do so on a proposal from the state government that follows the whole of this area, and I guess its guidelines should be the most relevant. So I'm calling you one more time, please decide whatever you want, just keep this marked. I couldn't get this thing to shut up and I have to say it here at the pay phone and here's my appeal to you, to sort this thing out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26059	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Sipović. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26060	Chairman, indeed, that this one, we continue to work considering that we have worked very seriously so far. I don't see why we're doing this. Well, we just passed the Drug Act, and no one's bothering anything more important than this and more importantly for all of us sitting here and for the citizens of BiH, so we didn't do it here and no one's asking us to go back 48. Come on, please, I'm begging you, so we've reached the point of the agenda on the 14th, and I'm asking you to really move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26061	Mr. Sipović, then Mr. Gligorić. Please, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26062	First, in principle, I support that this parliament is always determined to find a compromise solution to adopt laws. I support what the chairman has proposed and the solution set out in Article 18(2) does exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26063	Here, there's no will, what we'll do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26064	Please, just one more problem. But the problem is that we really need to draw attention now, I have to go to the chairman of this House of Representatives to correct it, he says several times, the Government of the State, I think that they are not the state government or, the Council of Ministers is the real name, and secondly, they've created a problem that no one has as a representative, or maybe a representative of the Council of Ministers, should have come out for a payphone, to explain the reason for the law. Now I also fully understand these colleagues who strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure. We respect our colleague and the College of this House but you really missed it because you knew that there were agenda points and you should have finished with your colleague Špirić. So, it's probably going to come up with the idea that this house is going to need to sit down one more time until the end of the term, and don't let us find a compromise solution, we can continue the session in seven days, in five days in three days, but we don't break the Rules of Procedure. But it really does stand in the Rules of Procedure that it can come out of this solution. But if there is no political will to pass this law, the Council of Ministers or the College shall bear part of the responsibility rather than that, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26065	Thank you very much. I think we can end this, I won't deny you the word but here, please, see that. Mr. Gligorić was before you, here's the deal. Okay, Professor Dr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26066	Nothing but... chairing a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not making some acrobatics that is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26067	I gave, 49
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26068	I'm not saying for you to make, but please hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as the secretary said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26069	I run a session, it was a business intervention, and I gave my word on a request for business intervention. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26070	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all Mr. Džaferović when he spoke of the vacant place, the place was not vacant.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26071	For you, Nikola is alive, I mean, that's clear, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26072	That's right. And that's, that chair is full of chairs. Don't do that. He is currently vacant, but the Rules of Procedure do not presently empty but empty when a man is gone at all. So, you're wrong here and let me tell you, I find it quite the opposite of what you said, it's a replica because the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act proposed by Mrs. Ruža Sopta and fellow Špiriću to the relationship as you say to the state government, I give priority to MPs, rather than to that incompetent state government or Council of Ministers. So you're sorry about them, so how much of it they didn't suggest, how bad it is, how many times we've brought it back, unlike the MPs they've suggested, we've adopted here because it was smarter. Therefore, do not underestimate your colleagues who have suggested something and we have accepted it. But, unconsciously, if for you the authority of Terzić and others,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26073	Good, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26074	No, he bit his tongue, you know. Don't do it, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26075	Okay. Thank you very much. Here, let's keep working. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26076	My colleague, we need to make an effort to get this proposal to the Council of Ministers, yes, yes, to find technology so that we can somehow get it back into the process. Okay. So it's just too serious, too much this country loses because the constitution of Parliament 50 of the future calling, the implementation of the election results will take 2 to 3 months, which means that objectively we have no right to play with the situation in the economy and simply to lose millions by the new year. So Sipović is very influential in this parliament and I think the College will listen to this, but objectively colleague Džaferović is on track to seek a solution indeed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26077	Look, I mean, let's be serious. We had two solutions. One thing is, we could go to a statement in the second round. There is no agreement in the College and that, it is not accepted. The second solution is to accept that you choose someone instead of Špirić temporarily, you reject that possibility. So there's no third solution. So don't do me, you don't have to explain the law to us right now. We know what I mean. ___________ (?) _Other Organiser [[didn't go out for a pay phone-unreadable]] [[Common discussion]] [[Common discussion]] May I have your attention, please? Thank you for your clarification. We've got nothing more to do. Replica, here's what you can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26079	Chairman, I have to give you a line. Because, look, you're saying, we seriously want MPs to adopt these amendments and supplement the law. There has been a problem of technical nature with respect to the respect of the Rules of Procedure. It's not our fault, there's no alignment. Now, some colleagues will not accept this item at the end of the term of office so as not to harm the Rules of Procedure. Please, I'm just saying, there's a third solution. In seven days, in five days, continue the session of Parliament. And, please, look, so don't, we're coming into a situation to push something in force, which we can put into a situation. I mean, you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26080	Please, let's finish the session on this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26081	Let me finish the chair.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26082	I'll schedule a session immediately if you agree, after this one, a new one. Let's finish this today. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26083	There's a solution, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26084	We can do that. So if there's political will, here's what we're going to do. We're going to finish this session and just put it on the agenda and we're going to cheat. Let's move on, item 14 of the agenda, Ad.14. Human Rights Ombdusmen's Special Report in BiH in connection with appeals related to length of court proceedings You've received a special report. It was discussed by the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and delivered to it. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26086	I'll be very brief. The biggest problem with human rights violations is the problem that judicial proceedings really take an inappropriate length of time. It is incomprehensible that we have passed laws, that, with the help of the international community, the OHR, the OSC and all other factors, we have passed laws on a litigation procedure in which deadlines are strictly foreseen when, when the action is to be filed, the hearing must be scheduled in preparation, the main debate when a solution must be determined, when a verdict must be reached and the appeal must be resolved. Please, we've come to a situation where citizens are really breaking human rights, that these actions are going on forever. Infinitely, three years in a second-degree Cantonal court or any other court but on the Supreme Court for a couple of years. And that is, it puts citizens in a situation where they can't carry out court proceedings until the end, by a powerful verdict. This also calls into question economic operators who cannot carry out their execution. And court proceedings, here are Ombdusmen's representatives, worrying about judicial proceedings on an executive procedure that also take an inappropriate lengthy time. From that point of view, I must ask, having an understanding of the backlogs earlier, they are visible, the backlogs are visible but I will tell you from my practice. Those gentlemen, those judges who are capable, they are very good at fulfilling their tasks and are mostly engaged in those deadlines. Those who are incompetent to you are the ones who build up the backdrops that have not been done. Therefore, I felt it necessary, and here this Ombdusmen's representative, Mr. Ljubić, should deny me if that is not true. It cannot happen that the Supreme Court has reached 3 years, 5 years, that the review of either an emergency remedy or I will not be resolved by the Supreme Court or the Cantonal Court after 3 years. I mean, that's inadmissible. Or that execution lasts a year at the bottom. It is a well-intentioned criticism if we want to support judicial reform or the rule of law and to protect human rights in that segment, as well as other economic operators who are simply unable to come, even foreigners are not investing because they cannot exercise their rightful judgments and achieve justice, because it is justice that is unattainable, it is injustice. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26087	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26088	Not to repeat what Koelga Sipović said. I want to support, of course, the Ombdusmen Report and just one dimension to point out once more. On several occasions, when we were sitting with people from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, discussing some issues, I came forward and it was probably happening to you, too, that the citizens were talking to us at times in order and expecting that as parliamentarians we have some kind of ingenuity, of course we do not have directly, precisely in favour of speeding up the process of resolving whether, in the context of the judicial institutions, it is the cases that, for which the citizens are interested. And, I just want, when we're reading and it's probably going to be positive about this report, to emphasize one dimension of insistence by here's a legislative body to judicial authorities, that it's working faster, not mixing in the work of judicial institutions but rather, just one signal and that message that simply tends to make these institutions work faster. And I want when that happens, and sometimes when someone individual calls for an object, it's not considered an intervention for, in the sense that the case will be ruled out, but simply to make decisions. There's the one who's a member of the 6th. The European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and how powerful weapons and I only want to point to that segment. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26089	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26090	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I fully accept the consultations of Mr. Sipović and Mr. Ćeman. I would add something even more in the form of a finding. We here as Parliament must express our regret that judicial and prosecutorial reform has not yielded the desired and expected results with all the respects and positive sides that have taken place. What I particularly want to point out here is total ineffectiveness in certain court proceedings where courts believe or not, because I questioned it in 3-4 courts, doing day and night selections so-called. light objects and objects that, in which you do not need to be deepened, only happen to you. And secondly, you know what they're doing, when we read the report and we go and we just look at the numbers on the subject, then you can find out exactly that they're right, that they don't have any leftover items that, by some legal law, should have long ago(?But what are they doing? Changes only to the judge, to change the court, etc. It puts him a new total number with that date so let's say here's specifically my one trial in court that went deep into the 19th year it's since last year. And when you look at it, it says that last year he came into court procedure, and back in 1987 he was in procedure. So that's one mess. Especially when we're talking about it, there's got to be a line on the D.A.'s office. You see that many appear, many processes that need to be processed quickly, they are placed in drawers and have been acidified for years as they become either more irrelevant or non-essential, etc. 53 So what is to me as an MP is simply a duty to point out, these are the opinions of disdain and dissatisfaction of the vast number of citizens of this country. And I think that the ombus here are 100% right, they weren't even compensated. Because I think they've gotten so many of those assumptions that it's an alarming condition. I ask that this parliament, in this context, react and reach either a conclusion or a recommendation to do something in that field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26091	Thank you very much. I don't have any more paralegals to discuss. I mean, here. We're going to, I mean, there weren't any specific questions for you, Mr. Ljubić. There have been observations that I think can be accepted in terms of the messages that the MPs have sent. I suggest we move to a statement on the Special Report with the Commission Report. Well, I already said that. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 25 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have therefore accepted the Special Report on Human Rights in BiH in connection with complaints concerning the length of the court proceedings with the Commission report and with the debate that was here, the proposals from the debate. Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Beriz Belkić, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26092	I mean, of course, it's not common, but here's what I'm trying to find out about this point 8. I am in some way expressing my suspicion of voting, so I would like to ask once again to vote on point 8. I'm not sure if it's right for me, my vote was right. I'm begging you, here's a yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26093	I, as chairman, will appreciate this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26094	Well, we've given, we've given, like, ten times, so I can ask once. No problem, man, if he doesn't like it, let him go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26095	Mrs. Perkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26096	Well, I'm suggesting that if someone already suspects the vote, let the list be taken out and they check it out. If there's a direct remark, then we can talk about it. Because we have long since absorbed point 8. We're going back all the time. But the document is the one that's relevant. We don't have to vote again. BERIZ
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26097	54 /interrupted connection/ [[/didn't go out for a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26098	.... need... any doubt if there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26099	I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26100	I don't want you here to say tomorrow there was a suspicion of a vote and a prevented let
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26101	I'm not asking for anything else, let people vote the way they voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26102	It's good for someone. As chairman, I'm putting this intervention here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26103	The point is absorbed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26104	Please have a chance to identify yourself. It's nothing else. To avoid any interpretations, I will because there has been no doubt so far in the ways of voting results while I led this session, never. And I won't take the last one to stay, so let him interpret whatever anyone wants. I therefore place on the statement of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Customs Tariff Act of the Council of Ministers' Proposer in the first reading again at the request of the Party for BiH Party to vote. Stand by. Vote now. So we have both the general and the entity majority. Just one vote against. I suggest we make a statement about the second reading. Vote now. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26105	Repeat this vote is not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26106	Please, we repeat the statement for the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. Give me some cooperation. Why didn't you raise your suspicions? You'd know the score would be even harder, me, me. So we have enough both general and entity majority for a second reading. 55 Prepare, plead. Vote now. With 23 votes for, enough entity majority, 2 against, without abstention, we have passed this law in another reading. Thank you very much. Transmit 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget for the period of mandate 2002/2006 You've received this report. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26108	Mr. Chairman, I express the sun at point 5. A bill on medicines and medical resources in BiH. I don't think I'm happy with the vote, or the result of the vote, so I'd like to get back to you on this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26109	Well, it wasn't the same situation because there were members of the College in full and it was possible to hold a vote, here was a specific situation but if you're looking for it, I'll put it on. I mean, if we're going now after this intervention,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26110	Anything is possible, of course anything is possible why not. [[Common discussion]] Anything is possible today. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26112	Can you help me, Mr. Novaković, to move on, please? Here I have you as chairman, I've said there's never been a reserve on any vote results. This was the first time and I don't want that reserve to stay in the last session and we did it. [[Common discussion]] Okay, I think I have the support to continue my work by Mr. Novaković. I expect it to be real. Please, 56.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26114	You don't need to expect me to. There's a quorum, I've expressed my suspicion, I expected support, but since I didn't get it,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26115	Well, thank you. All right, let's make a note of what Mr. Novaković said. Moving on to, have we reached out to the 15th point?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26116	It seemed to me that this law was far more important to us than this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26117	Report, thank you Mr. Moranjkić. Commission Financial and Budget Report 2002-2006 Is there a debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're making a statement about the report. Stand by. Vote now. It says here we vote. I agree that, unanimously, with 26 votes in favour, 18 from the Federation, 8 from the RS, we accepted the report on the work of the Finance Commission and the 2002-2006 budget without votes against and abstention. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. A report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level also for the period 2002-2006. That's what you got. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the report. Stand by. Vote now. So you accepted this statement unanimously with 26 votes in favour. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda, that's Ad.17. Report by the Commission of Investigation to determine the foreign savings of BiH citizens laid down on bank accounts by 31.12. 1992
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26120	An explanation of this conclusion. There's the President of the Commission, so I'd like to ask him to say the essence of this, because now he's asking again the questions that I think I need someone to take and act on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26121	Thank you. We have a question for the chairman of the board. Mr. Izet Hadžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26122	I must say that the Commission has come to this conclusion after its second session that it considers first and foremost whether, that the State's Prosecutor's Office should be involved on these issues. The Commission believes that this, to say the full extent, needs to be analysed and searched for these funds. Since the bankruptcy of the National Bank of BiH took place in Bosnia, the privatisation of state banks, that certain information was collected during public debates that should be answered and, above all, the question, for example, should be answered. Just here we have Peri's bank in Tuzla, Pere Vasili the deceased who returned the entire foreign currency savings, the only private bank. She returned it means, while these other banks left the burden on the citizens, etc. And, in essence, I mean this, so there are a lot of elements and the Commission thinks that Parliament should keep this issue focused, in mind and that it is necessary to call on the Prosecutor's Office to take its part on many issues. Because we think that the sum of money of 2 billion and 750 grand is not so small that we can say that this one disappears, and we don't know where it's gone and how. And, here it is, I don't know if there's a colleague, Bešlagić, agreeing with this one, with an explanation but simply because of certain non-response and blockades in the work of the Commission, we believe that the Commission should be strengthened with the Prosecutor's Office on this issue. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26123	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26124	On the background, I support the Commission's full report and the esteemed colleague Izet. Indeed, this parliament cannot be taken away from the impression that we can easily go over the fact that this foreign currency savings that was in the accounts, that the state is watching it and that it must involve all institutions to examine the way these funds are. We have had major problems with the adoption of the previous law and we have been brought into this issue and I think that this Parliament should in principle take a political stance and support the Commission's conclusion and get support because they have made additional efforts and prepared this report and that the competent institutions, the prosecution and other institutions are involved in resolving this issue. That's us, that's our moral and constitutional obligation to this home and MP. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bešlagić, please, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26126	2 billion and 600,000, that's the foreign currency savings our savings here today demanded the law to adopt. Am I right? So someone's touched, so the BiH state should return. It's a crime of pure crime, and I support the report, and I ask even more rigorously to include the court cases that would solve this. I'm not capable of accepting that the state should pay the money and someone stole that money. I don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26127	So the country that returns it needs to start its own institutions. Well, I think, or maybe he's thinking of paying back the money without looking for a robbery. I don't know. Maybe there's that variant. Looks like it's a variant, yeah. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26128	Just that, by the way, the Commission, when the Commission says that the House of Representatives needs to be answered for certain questions, I think there are three of them here. I'm asking the question if, if this investigation committee thinks she's done her job, that she could no longer come up with an answer that now suggests that they should be reached by Dom or something else. So, just from the point of view of the report as such, it was logical for the Commission to answer these questions as well, and then to come up with a report of this kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26129	Mr Izet Hadžić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26130	If the Commission could have given a stronger answer, I would have. But he does, therefore, suggest that since this is the end of our mandate and everything, we wanted to round up a part of our work and that Parliament continues to hold this issue and where perhaps in these issues lies a part of the answer, what about foreign savings. So the bottom line is that this issue of succession and who I'm with, with most of the people I've talked to, I think, needs to be determined precisely because we're just saying, there's a intersection or one or another solution. Either it's the error of our negotiating team in the succession, or it's a waste of funds that were fictitiously managed by this, in Bosnia, in the National Bank of Yugoslavia and were the funds in BiH. That's, I mean, one intersection that needs to be completely cleared up to go further into a complete solution. We couldn't say, to be sure which, what the assessment is, and therefore we have also given the question here that Parliament must get an answer to these questions. Well, it is, the essence of the report is that Parliament should continue to monitor this issue, the new Parliament and say, to move forward from the work of the Commission. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fatima Leho, please. Did you ask Filipe for a word? You're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26132	I will vote against this report, because I know the following, in the 1970s and 80s, BiH, or Yugoslavia, has led foreign exchange savings to foreign exchange banks. It's the time when it starts in 8 decades, so inflation begins. The dinar equivalent of foreign exchange-saving banks had to adapt to a course that was adjusted every third day, sometimes second and sometimes weekly. It required a very high rate of negative curricula. At the level of the banks' association and at the level of the government, a law has been passed that said it urgently needed the foreign savings that it was until that day, the exact date, should be entered into those laws, that the reform should be deposited with the National Bank of Yugoslavia through the national banks of the republic. And the same day was done, say at Mostar Central Bank, a billion was deposited as foreign exchange savings, so under quotes and we got a interest-free loan at the same amount because there was no liquidity disturbance. Which means what the report says is 85%. Until that day, it was only done to balance the balances of these business banks in Yugoslavia against foreign exchange savings and assets and liabilities. Positive exchange rates were calculated as asking the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, and the negative ones were accounted for for on-demand foreign savings were beaten up and the entire Yugoslav banking system was saved so as not to lose, as it threatened the financial collapse of the entire banking system. Because of this situation and because of the situation further wild, it was prescribed, until then, it was always done, the foreign savings were given to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and then, either through the National Banks of the Republic, then every economic operator that imported equipment, which imported the re-promatter, which made factories out of the Ino Credit, when he paid payments for ino loans, anuities, when paying for the re-promatter and the equipment was exempt from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, there was paid the dinar equivalent and received foreign exchanges. Therefore, foreign exchange savings was really an operational resource with an ino credit for what should have been the economy of Yugoslavia, somewhere more somewhere less, but each republic had its own foreign exchange balance. From that day on, so inflation is the reason, I will stop if there is no interest in what I'm saying, from that day on which was prescribed which day D. every business bank in Yugoslavia had to defacto buy exchanges for dinars and deposit them with the National Bank, and the National Bank at its foreign exchange account at some ino bank. And that was, defacto, deposited foreign savings, which was supposed to be subject to succession. The conflict wasn't done by unprofessional people and I because of what I know I was trying as easy as I could to explain what this is really about. These all brands do not mean that they were sought by Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they were all invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, the National Bank sold through Yugoslavia through the republic's banks to anyone who had reported who wanted to buy re-promatter or equipment or to take foreign exchanges to travel outside. It means both physical and legal. Because of that, there's nothing vague about me. It's clear to me that what was in the balance sheets of banks, which is under the deposited-deposit system was spent on business entities or citizens who were travelling outside, so they gave the dinars, so they bought foreign exchanges, it's devastated, and now it needs to restore the economy of this Bosnia and Herzegovina from the budget for the next five years, here's how we voted today in five years. Whoever wants to investigate can investigate, only I won't vote. I won't, because it's all clear to me. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26133	Mr. Novaković, you asked for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26134	Thank you very much. When I look at this report, then I have to go back to what kind of assignment they gave me on the investigation committee, and what we've been looking for, too. So, we asked them to provide data on foreign foreign foreign exchange savings on 31.3.1992, then the cash situation found on bank accounts, the foreign foreign exchange balance and the relationship between banks and the national bank, especially with the use and teaching of cash in accordance with the applicable legislation. And then when I look at the conclusions of this committee, I wonder what this has to do with it, if the investigative committee considers that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina should receive answers to the following questions. Why did former SFRY accept the Yugoslav model in the negotiations? That only what physically exists during the negotiations is shared. I'd really like the commission to explain to me how they came to this conclusion, that is, where he came up with all this documentation about this. Next conclusion. How are negotiations on the succession of the former SFRY and where is the difference between the real property, the value of the former SFRY property that was supposed to belong to BiH and the value of the conflict agreement, which belonged to BiH, lost? I don't think any comment makes sense. There's no point in refusing a report because of what it says. But I really just want to get into this stenogram of this text that I didn't vote for the conclusions, but I voted for the commission's efforts when it comes to the report on the mission that the commission received from this house, and I vote for that part of the report, for these conclusions that really have nothing to do with this here, I don't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26135	Izet Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26136	Well, I want to say it. The issue of succession must be clarified in the BiH Parliament, because we accepted the Foreign Savings Act to go towards the savings that only banks in BiH were, to say with headquarters and that amount. And the amount that was on the banks' exposures in BiH, and the headquarters was in other countries, remains unresolved and we are witnessing that the same foreign exchange savings our citizens cannot achieve. That is why I have also provided you with documents from Vienna, which show in the report that BiH's foreign savings corresponds roughly only to the foreign savings deposited in banks in BiH. Which means if there was a relevant document on succession, then it is 100% binding on the Ljubljana Bank and Slovenia and other countries to damage our citizens and we in Parliament need to be, as they say, fully clear and aware, so we need to settle these issues well. Second question. We'll be back. I say to me it's one crossroads, I love it as a man to be clear that I can quite competently talk about it. You here have a foreign exchange balance in '90. in the National Bank of Yugoslavia, where $12.5 billion is mentioned, and where the currency savings of our citizens are mentioned, as in the total amount, and the Yugoslav model and commission that accepted the concession to share what is on 31 March 1001, which is approximately one billion and a half of the funds and of which BiH has contributed 15% to the coefficient that has been calculated. I really think that we need to know if it's really such a practice to accept that they share what they have, if anyone has asked what's wrong with the 61 they don't have, or if someone's spent it, and that's what they were in that amount, so someone spent it. Who on behalf of BiH could have said okay, you spent it, we found this and we're going to share this? That's why we asked the question that we should say. Basically, the commission doesn't think she's done the job. That's what she's asking questions she should've taken care of. He's looking for the D.A.'s office right now, because if someone didn't do well to send, let's say, the information we asked for, then I think I have the right to doubt he wants to hide. So, we were sending. You have information in which we've been looking for data, etc., if he didn't want to deliver it, so it won't end the mandate and time of this commission, but this question, I think I should say it in full to clear this up. Don't let it stay, don't let it remain vague. I have set an example for you of the Pere Vasilj bank which has returned foreign currency savings and others that are not. I'll give you an example of some banks returning something. How, from what means of coma, by what law? There are a thousand things I think, given the large amount of money and to say otherwise, because of the very honor of this country, that this should, with this conclusion, continue to work on this problem. A little clarification on why the issue of succession and sums and relationships, the obligation to return to the Ljubljana savings of Invest Bank etc. that this parliament is so pure about it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26137	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26138	Well, first of all, I have to say that such statements have been delivered to the House of Representatives in the previous meeting of Mr Hadžić, then Minister Domazet delivered, I think Mr Domazet delivered this report to the BiH House of Representatives and Parliament and filed a full report on the way negotiations were held on the succession here, meaning not in this hall but in that room on the floor below. So we did. I didn't get up to say we had it, so we discussed it. He remembers that and his colleague Avdić at the House of Representatives, but I have stood up to say that the finding or our task of examining where the foreign currency savings ended is not disputed for me. So, we, I'm here to determine where it ended. But this still doesn't make sense. This is still really extra trust me. Get in to now say why the Yugoslav model was accepted. Look, I don't mind if you file a criminal charges against Mr. Domazet so that he answers why he took the Yugoslav model, and not some of him managed to force it at that point, or I don't know, how the negotiations were conducted. So we got this report here at the time in that meeting that was both in one home and another. I'm staying with the fact that I think this part unnecessarily introduces this report into another story entirely. I don't mind forming a commission today to determine if we've been good at negotiating the conflict. I don't mind. Let's form a special investigative committee, but we can't put it in here. It doesn't make sense here. This is where it deviates from what we've given the commission as a task.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26139	Mrs. Perkanović, please. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26140	I agree with this that these conclusions are excessive, because here it can be concluded that the commission, looking for where the old foreign savings went missing, came up with certain data, but the commission did not finish its job, which should continue or suggest that a commission be formed in the future, which will continue where they left off. That would be appropriate for me to do what they had to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26141	No more. I'm closing the debate, and we're setting ourselves up according to the conclusion report. I place this report on the investigation committee's statement with the conclusions of the vote. Vote now. We'll do it again. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. We can't agree to that now, you know. It has a general majority of no entities from the RS. Mr. Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26142	The bottom line is that Parliament should continue to monitor this issue in including the prosecution. And if it's considered too much to answer the question of succession, if it's to get kicked out of the report to accept the report, if that's a solution to the commission and that's enough to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26143	Mr Hadžić, this report remains as it is said in life and cannot today, so you leave the obligation to Parliament to continue. I think it's done. I think this has been calculated in the fact that it will remain in the process, and that Parliament's procedure will continue to determine about it. Okay, thank you. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. The appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor You have received a report and a ranking of the Commission's selection list set up by Parliament, where prescribed, I will remind you of the provisions of Article 24. The Law on the Audit of Institutions, where it is prescribed that the Chief Auditor and the Deputy Auditor shall appoint the Parliamentary Assembly on the Commission's proposal for a selection. The main auditor and deputies shall be appointed to the term of office of seven years, without the possibility of renaming, and at the earliest two months before the end of the term of office. The Deputy Chief Auditor shall be appointed from the order of the other two constituent nations from which the Chief Auditor is not appointed. This is part of the provisions of Article 24 relating to designation. 63 You've got the rank list. You got the rank list. You've got the candidate's order in front of you. From the order of the Serbian people: 1. Dragan Kulin 2.. Miroljub Krunić 3. Ranko Šakota From the Order of the Bosniak People: 1. Dževad Nekić 2. Sead Abaspahić 3.. == Munever, Baftić by elderman 4. @elder_man Muhidin Hafizović 5. Mustafa Ovčina From the order of the Croatian people is proposed: 1. Milenko Šego ja here think it is necessary to reach an agreement because it is a position at BiH level from which the people will be filled out, this is my opinion as chairman, the main auditor. I think, therefore, that it is time to start balancing a little bit if the auditors are also in the entities of both the Serb and Bosniak people, here I see the prime ministers, I think it is time to reach such a political agreement because it is such a character of position. That's my suggestion. That Hrvat should be the main auditor and the deputies should be of the order of the Serb and Bosniak people. I have suggested that the main auditor be of the people of Zavat, and that the deputies be of the order of the Serb and Bosniak people according to the ranking list and that we make a statement about it. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26144	I have a second proposal to make. Namely, I suggest that according to the number of points or points the main auditor is elected at the point of the score. So, in this case, it's Mr. Kulin who took 183 points and it's perfectly logical that we choose the chief auditor in this way. But what I really mean is, we didn't need this on the agenda today. That this question should have been resolved sooner as a previous question, because we are now going to get into a situation, I guess, that none of the candidates in the next order will get most of it here and then we have a much uglier picture than we had that we didn't put this on the agenda. Maybe it would be good, because today we've made a variety of combinations with the Rules of Procedure, to make another one, so if the dot promoter says, here's my proposal, and we've been doing worse today, so we wouldn't mind it, and I think it's smart, and we're just not going to pick anyone today, and it's very ugly if we can't choose any of the ten people on this list today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26145	Okay, Mr. Potočnik, so Mr. Elmir Jahić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26146	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think we should look from a practical point of view and see that from all three lines of the people are candidates from the order of Croatian truth one, it is known that they have the most points and, since Mr. Kulin was a deputy former I can't remember Mušović, he and Mušović were the deputies of exactly the Šega, I think it would be logical to be from the order of the Serbian people Mr. Kulin and that in this way continues one continuity I would say to the serious audit committee and to all our institutions. So my suggestion is that we go to those who have the most points and that Mr. Kulin be the chairman, that is, the president of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26147	Thank you. Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, it is certain that, in my opinion, it is not a dispute, which the candidates should be from which people. So, those who won the most points and those who were first ranked, so here's the order of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian nations. So, Mr. Nekić, Šego and Kulin. As to what Mr. Potočnik is talking about continuity Mr. Šego is now the current auditor, so that's also the thing of continuity as well as Mr. Kulina. However, we should bear in mind that current auditors have expired their mandate and now we are entering a legal vacuum and we should really do this job today. So, people's mandate has expired, and we need to get our strengths together and vote these candidates. I know that in the way we vote, we can also see some way, some methods to come up with that solution, but so we have to name exactly who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in general, who's in the deputy. We can't determine the three of them and then pick out who's gonna be the general and the deputy, etc. But here we go to the vote and we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26149	I thank Mr. Jahić, Mrs. Sopta and Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26150	I thank Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind my colleagues that this year we have passed the State Audit Act at this level and that we have tried to unite audit services both at entity level and at state level, and in this law we have adopted in one article that acts as a coordinating body formed by three main auditors. Now we would probably be in a situation, whether we choose the Bošnjak, whether we choose from the Serb people's main auditor's order, so that this coordinating body is asymmetric. So there would be two of one people, one nation would have no one, one nation would have one member. I believe that there, we must bear that in mind, because this body is very important in coordination and has a very important role in work and training and further audit. I agree so that we should decide today on the main auditor and the deputy auditors so as not to interrupt the continuity. In fact, they already seem to have a mandate for them and they are already operating in some technical mandate, which 65 is never good for this house, for this institution, because in these four years, this institution has really improved and done its part of the job in a good way. I don't know how the commission handled what criteria, but it seems to me that there are a lot of criteria, according to what I remember in the law, it seems to me that all three colleagues have a level playing field. There's a high-ranking expert being prepared, there, I was the first to insist on being an audit exam, but it's been a while since there's no luck, I think these candidates have an audit exam, but, I mean, it's crucial that the article that talks about the coordinating body. In order for the coordination body consisting of three men to be represented in the order of all three nations. That's what it tells me, Mr. Šega, to continue to be the chief auditor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26151	Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26152	I just want to remind you that there was a very precise amendment, which was also adopted at the House session, which talked about how the main auditor and his deputies were chosen, so it was said that the candidate who has the most points was the main auditor, and that, in orderly speaking, depending on the order of the constituent peoples, they had to be the deputies. That amendment disappeared when we agreed between homes, and now we're in the situation we're in. If it's a political issue, then we need all the members here and give the final answer. If it's a profession, then we should say, is there a clearer professional interpretation than that of the one who's the best, then, the one who's rated the best by the commission that led this process to be elected chief auditor. Daskle, one of those two things we have to make as a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26153	Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26154	I've come forward here as a member of this committee and I have to say that Mr. Šego got the most standard reviews of the board members, five times twenty-eight and a half and suddenly 24. That Mr. Kulin, say, got three times 26, twice 37. Imagine the difference. It's all done well. Just imagine if two men in the order of the Shagin people gave 37 each and then converse those points as much as Šego would have. However, apparently someone here worked differently. If the candidate got five times the same number of points at half 28.5, it means that there were safe Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin in two cases of two, and here we have 37 twice, and three times 26. I'm not saying anything. I didn't speak by name or nationality in this case and who voted as well, but I just said about the standards of how the points were given. So it wasn't a problem for Mr. Šego to have 184 votes, it wasn't a problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26155	You see, we obviously don't have the conditions to end this today. We don't have a member of the College, we can't make an agreement, because there's obviously no consensus on how to vote and this 66 part, and I think we should postpone this. Anything else would be wrong in this situation. Thank you very much. We're going to the 19th agenda. Ad.19. Consents for ratification (a) of the Project Agreement, Air Traffic Management Project between the Ministry of Communications and the Civil Aviation Directorate and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development This question asked by Mrs Hadžiahmetović has been verified, consulted and nothing is disputed. This is regular on the agenda according to the ratification procedure (b) The Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Project for Airspace Management (c) The Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, the Commission for Foreign Affairs has considered and given a positive opinion. I suggest we make a statement in the package for all three of these contracts. Thank you very much. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. In agreement with 28 votes in favour, we agreed to ratify a) the Project Agreement, the Airspace Management Project between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Civil Aviation Directorate of BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. b) The Treaty between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Aviation Management Project, (c) the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal. Thank you very much. We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. Ad.20. A proposal for a conclusion on BiH's departure to the sea, Proposer Mladen Potočnik, you dobiti received a proposal for a conclusion Mr. Potočnik explained this morning. I'm opening the debate. There's no record of a hearing. We move to a statement in connection with the proposal for a conclusion submitted by Mr Mladen Potočnik. Stand by. Vote now. So the conclusion has both the general and the entity majority, and it's accepted. Thank you. 67 And we're going to the 21st point of the agenda. Ad.21. The proposal for a conclusion regarding the de-certified police officers, you have received the proposal from Agent Sead Avdić. Is there a need to discuss it? Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26156	...a little tolerance, with the fact that I accepted one suggestion from my colleague Novaković in terms of linguistic precision of a part of this text alone. It's not a fundamental change, and I'm rereading this text. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in view of the conclusions of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration and Refugees and Asylum, expressed its concern and attitude that the competent authorities of the de-certified police officers accept as suspended workers, with the rights stemming from this status until the end of the BiH Council of Ministers' appeal before the UN Security Council and the possible revision of the decertification process. So, just the language of precision of one part of the attitude, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26157	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 25 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have accepted the proposal for a conclusion in connection with the de-certified police officers, the proposing representative of Sead Avdić. We're moving to the final item of the agenda. Ad.22. The proposal for the conclusion of the proposal by Proposed by Mirsad Sipović, related to the appointment of another session by the end of the term of office and the adoption of the law, as stated in this written proposal, as submitted by Mr Sipović, please welcome Mr Sipović. I think we've got enough labs, but get sick.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26158	I would ask my colleagues to take the opportunity to really thank them for their support that this proposal of the agenda enters into consideration and that you had understood all my colleagues at the height of the protection of MPs and I felt the need today also in my discussion of the debate to protect the dignity of the MPs and that it was God and that we had previously respected myself I think it would be this. I think, the chairman, dear colleagues, that we have been struggling with these things today, and that during today's debate, there is a need for us to hold one session by the end of the term of office and I think my proposals for these conclusions are acceptable and I suggest that we adopt them in the package and make it the most binding for the Council of Ministers and this Parliament and try at least those laws that will be in the public debate to adopt them. I think this would be a real relationship between Parliament at the end of the term of office for what we can't adopt. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-18-0.u26159	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. We move on to a statement on Mr Mirsad Sipović's proposal for a conclusion. Stand by. Vote now. Unfortunately, we have the same situation as that, we can't decide without a member of the College. We've exhausted the agenda of this session. I want to thank all the MPs of the House for their four-year content work, I would say with successful work, over 220 laws we passed, reports, created one infrastructure for continuing work. There have been difficult and easier situations, but I think personally as chairman, who I have partly chaired on behalf of my colleagues, I would like to thank all the representatives for their cooperation, understanding and joint work, and in 17 hours and 5 minutes to conclude the work of the 85th session of the House of Representatives.
