ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5932	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 58th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 delegates present at the session. Of which 5 of the Bosniak people, 5 of the Croatian people, 4 of the Serb people. Mr. Goran Milojević has justifiably been prevented from coming to this session and I think there is a reasonable absence. For the 58th session, I propose the next agenda. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. Record of the 57th National Assembly, 3. Voting on the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation in the Area of War Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the HVO defence and members of their families in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision of Bosnia and Herzegovina, number U-7/06 of 31.3.2006, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Personal Data Protection Act, 5. The request of delegates Ilija Filipović, Đoka Pajić, Hilmo Neimarlija to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Emergency, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Official Messenger of BiH, 33/6, 6. Hilme Neimralija delegates' request to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security Intelligence Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Law on the Amendment of the Law in the ICC of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law on an urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 2 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Freedom of Information Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the House of Representatives, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the House of Representatives, First Reading, 13. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the navigation of waterways, inland waters and their marking and maintenance, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank National Road Banja Luka-Gradiška, 16. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the arrangement of mutual property legal relations, 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece, 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States, 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on International Road Transport, 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on Development Credit Project on Technical Promotion in the field of Social Security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development, 22. Resolve Samir Mušović as deputy general auditor for resigning, 23. Information on the Abazović case, 24. Annual Central Bank report for 2005, 25. Business report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2005 and 26. A report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2005 Election Commission's work. Do we have any suggestions to supplement the agenda? Thank you. There isn't. Hillmo, come in. Rose, are you satisfied? Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5933	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, as sixth item of the agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5934	Which dot?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5935	As the sixth item of the proposed agenda, my request is to consider the Law amending the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, until today, I have not received the necessary opinion of the Management Board of VAT and I express my regret and disdain because the Council of Ministers on the same problem has already been determined, unanimously and my proposal, but according to the VAT Act, my request could be considered, but 3 could not be decided and therefore I ask you to stop my request. So I'm not pulling it just stopping for
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5936	Until this information arrives
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5937	Until the opinion of the Management Board arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5938	Thank you very much. Is this supposed to be voted on? Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, Mr. Chairman, you won't mind me. The Serbian delegates' club is looking for an explanation why the session was 110 minutes late, regardless of what we came last. We came 5 minutes from the moment we were told that the session of the House of Peoples began, that is, at 12 and 50 calls. Regardless of the reasons, we find it unwarranted, irresponsible both to delegates and to guests and to the media and to all those who follow the work of the House's session, and we expected you to at least say in the opening statement what caused this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5940	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. I asked Mr. Jadranka to go to every club and inform every club that the session would be late because our commission, the committee chaired by Mr. Hasan Čengić, had not arrived to finish all these points that were on the agenda and asked us to give them some more time to finish it, because at the time they had a meeting there were some problems about, a day, two earlier there were some problems about the quorum and I think it was over. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry that I didn't say what I just said at the beginning of this session. I thought I'd say this when we adopt the agenda and when we finish what it is that we do this project for today, what we should do, I thought I'd apologize to my colleagues. But I hope this apology of mine doesn't lose value. I'm really sorry, and I'm asking my colleagues to pay their respects. The reasons were, and the reasons were what I said. Here's to telling the media. Thank you, Boško, if you respect the explanation. For Mr. Hilm Neimarli, I think, here's what I think, if you're like a proposing person who thinks we should take this off the agenda, or move it for the next session, I think this can be adopted and we're going with the agenda without this point six, which is whether or not the applicant is asking for Mr. Neimarlija. Thank you very much. So we're adopting the read agenda with, without this item of the agenda, which is, of which is six, which is being talked about by Neimralija. Thank you, thank you colleagues for understanding. 4 The first item of the agenda is Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The question was answered by Osman Brka and Velimir Jukić. Are the gentlemen satisfied? Here comes Osman Brka. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5942	I welcome you, Mr. Chairman, to the College of the Whole, fellow delegates, guests, members of the government, I must comment on the answer, but before I comment, I will have to remind you of something. Namely, the issue concerned the formation of the Commission's competence and work on Bosnia and Herzegovina's accounting and revision. And there were more questions and I see from this answer that I received that Minister Ljerka Marić forwarded it to the Commission. In the signature of the Commission, Prof. Dr. Vladislav Đurasović. And in one place in the answers he finds the following, I and I have to read it – I think he says the question is provocative, and that the esteemed MP has some concepts of a mixture. The concept of resuscitation, professionally translated as a re-sentrification, was governed by Article 5(5) of the Law by that question, so it should be directed by the esteem of the MP to read the Law carefully. Why am I saying this? It seems we here must prepare well to ask someone a question. Because it seems that the question must not be asked if someone can interpret it to be provocative. Because I really think that we here can all ask 15 of us here questions from all areas of life and work. I'm no expert on this area, it's no secret, but I've really asked the question of the account that the professional people have set up. And in response to Mr. Đurasović, he says in one place – the Commission has adopted a statute on the proposal of the director which will still be spoken of until the Code of Ethics for the Commission has been adopted because it has been established that it should apply the Code of Ethics for Professional Accounting. This codet was passed by the IFAC, but our college doesn't have it because it hasn't translated, it hasn't been translated yet. Well, please, they say to themselves that they don't have the code that they said they'd bring it, that it came to them, but that no one has translated it yet. And they're working on that code of some kind. To see that it was appropriate to refer not to these questions that I have referred, but to another 100 questions as to how such an important committee itself admits in signing that there are no codes of conduct, and it asks me how can I ask them some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5943	Mr. brkati, when everything is considered and what you said and what you got, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5944	I'm not how I'm gonna be happy with this kind of work. That someone works without a code and you sign it. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5945	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Please. The code is not translated. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5946	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests and journalists, here I will briefly comment on the answer to my question asked five months ago, so during the first month of this year. - What does the Council of Ministers do, or what will make Internet services more accessible to a larger number of users, or cheaper, especially for youth, students and students? In response, the Council of Ministers notes that it is not in charge of subsidies, and in the second part of the response it says it is, that the procedure for the adoption of the law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Information Society Agency and that it will then be working on promoting an information society within the framework of the reform of the educational system. I don't think we can be satisfied with this condition, and the answer just says that's the condition. This law has been mentioned for a long time, and here we are finally going to get it, so this would then suggest that we wait until this law is passed and that then, here I am looking for answers to these questions. So here I can accept this answer by arming ourselves with more patience, but to be persistent really in then-quality solutions in this law and then implementing those solutions. Because according to some surveys, the internet in Bosnia and Herzegovina is used very little, especially in these categories that I have highlighted in my question. So students, students and youth. I think we should work on it, and I'll do it again – patience, then, through good solutions and their implementation, we can solve this problem. And the issue of subsidies, again, I expect to get rid of it through the law. However, just to say that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not competent and are not responsible for something, if they cannot subsidise it, then they can probably do so by entity governments, but then I guess the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to discuss it and to meet the ethnic governments, i.e. those authorities that are also responsible for subsidies. So let's see if there's anything we can do about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5947	Thank you. What are we going to find satisfied, unsatisfactory?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5948	Partly.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5949	Partly. Sir, I'm sorry, we're done here with these answers to the delegate's questions. Question, anyone? Questions. Mr. Hasan Čengić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5950	Well, actually, I have to admit, I don't know, even though I've been involved in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which I would care to say right now. This would be some kind of replica, and I don't have the right to replication, to dissatisfaction of my colleagues, or a replica of an answer that isn't addressed to me. However, say the following. 1. That ethics, the code of ethics has not been translated, is evident from the fact that the distinguished gentleman who signed the answer to Mr. Brk says his question is provocative. Even if the question were provocative, so if it were really provocative, it is not the turn that a civil servant, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, says the issue is provocative. So I think we agree on that. 2. It is a very serious question to prove that one question is provocative if it is put publicly in writing to the competent institution and, now, it is a key issue – if the debate between experts is conducted, it would be confirmed not that the issue is not provocative, but that the behaviour of the committee is actually more than unacceptable. In matters of the so-called so-called certification, de-certification, re-certification and so on. Who did it, why did it, on what basis he worked, etc.? So in this sense, I think we're dealing with something that's very serious. So audit jobs are extremely serious jobs. You all know that the Law predicted that now every company that has a business of more than 1 million KM over the year must have a mandatory expert audit, with everything else. So these are important jobs, these people do very responsible jobs and their opinions, i.e. these companies, their opinions are extremely valid and legally relevant and relevant in courts and so on. And on the other hand, we have a situation that we don't actually know who can do the job at all, who can't. That we have a situation where the Commission is working, and there's no ethical code on which it works. So that's really mildly said amazing. This is certainly something that would be a fish. Especially when it comes to controlling the most essential, sensitive, sensitive part of the job, it's a business with money. Be careful, gentlemen, how someone did business with the money. Did he carry out his tax obligations, his pensions, did he carry out his other obligations, did he do business positively, did he negatively, did he do it right? People who control it, which are signed under documents, giving an attitude that is relevant, which is not only formal, but legally relevant, they do not have a code of conduct. And why don't they have one? Because they didn't have time to translate it. How long did it take them to translate? They need a donation to translate. Do we need to maybe raise a donation to get them to translate it? And what it all means. So one such serious job. We ask the question, every day, look at the media, look at the public. The public takes any politician, says you were involved in crime. This is how crime binds to you. It's said that you did this, that you were related to that, that you were mediating that. Well, that goes to the D.A.'s sometimes, so it's being processed. In almost all these cases, audits are exactly what is an important instrument for determining facts. So an extremely important fact-finding instrument. It is clear and natural that the court does not have that knowledge and that the court must also benefit from what it can get from audit houses. And now we have a state institution that controls the functioning, which prescribes rules of conduct, which gives certificates, which oversees work, which has the ability to withdraw a license, or a certificate, and we have the answer in which the state MP is told that his public question, therefore not through newspapers, is not private in the pub, that his public question is provocative. 7 I must say the following. This is such a serious matter that I think it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to make a comment and answer to this answer. So not the Commission anymore, but the Council of Ministers as such and that the Council of Ministers says whether it is true that they do not have a code and how they can operate if they do not have a code. And who's responsible for why there's no code and whether it's serious behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5951	Is that your parliamentary question?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5952	So this is both a question and a request. So the question to the Council of Ministers is - to comment on the answer, to comment on this response and to give an answer as to how it is possible for this commission to work, and that it is not always available in the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the Constitution provides for a code of ethics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5953	Thank you very much. It would be good for officials to use that dictionary of foreign words and expressions a little bit more when they use it, so they know what it is, what they say. Here you go. Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5954	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow envoys, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished representatives of the international community and media representatives, I welcome you all together. I will Iskoristić this opportunity precisely in the atmosphere of the previous, previous statement by my colleagues in terms of answering the question and ask three questions now to the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Professional Service of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, so let them, of course, try to answer with common efforts, within the Rules of Procedure of the established deadlines. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. My questions are: 1. As many of the questions raised by the envoys of the current House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina from first to this 58th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. To this day, how many questions have been answered by those institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that were obliged to do so and how many and what answers have come to the envoys to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House within the specified deadline and 3. To whom were the envoys who asked questions satisfied with the answers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5955	Thank you, Mr. Limov. So an inventory of parliamentary questions. Do we, Mr. brkati, have you? Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5956	I'm thanking you. I have one question. - What is the Council of Ministers of our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina doing to protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina on uninterrupted access on any basis or in any way and any restrictions on international territorial waters, and on the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of bridges across our territorial waters? And please just one more sentence, one more sentence. Please do not wait for that answer for months, but if possible for the next session. Well, I told international waters.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5957	Thank you very much. Good in international waters. Mr. Šiljegovć. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5958	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Club of Serbian Delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I am asking the question of the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not because the minister is here, but because. The question concerns the incident that took place in the Sarajevo competition on 13 May 2006. We are looking for information about the incident and the measures taken to sanction participants and the challenger of the incident that took place on 13 May when children, athletes from Republika Srpska, were beaten, or more specifically, Club Panther from Bijeljina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5959	Thank you. Do we have any more delegate questions? Mr. Đoko. Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5960	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this opportunity once again for the third time to ask the same question. It's also about what Mr. Limov was saying. I have asked this question twice so far, I have not received any answer, so here I am going to ask it the third time, namely, to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. - Why is it not so far when the Commission for the Death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and other BiH citizens in Sarajevo will be formed in the period from 1992 to 1995, and at the conclusion of this January 1994 parliament? It means an explanation. I've asked this question twice, but I didn't get any answers, although from Mr. Adnan Terzić at one of the sessions of this home, where he was present, I can't remember if it was December of '94. or January '95. A year from him himself got an answer here that question 9
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5961	I guess in 2004, not '94.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5962	Yes, if I was about to get a written answer to that question, but it's been a year since then, and I haven't received that written answer, and these days I read in the means of information, by chance that Mr. Terzić, I don't know who he said it to, I've mostly read that this commission will never be formed, so if it were already a position, it would be a turn for him to deliver such a question and a written answer to that request. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5963	Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5964	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for going in another form, regardless of what a colleague is, the Serbian delegates' club is looking for a stenogram from the 79th session of the House of Representatives, held on 18.5th on agenda number 3. – Voting mistrust to the Council of Ministers and addressing the chairman, Adnan Terzić. We need a stenogram because the conclusion refers to the conclusion of both homes. We participate in the work of the House of Peoples, the Club of Serbian Delegates and the Joint Session of both homes will participate, but will follow the actions of MPs from Republika Srpska's House of Representatives and the initiative of the chairman, Mr Špirić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5965	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. The stenograms are a public matter, they are available to every citizen, they are available to the media, and I ask you not to wait for those answers, go to the Secretariat, or to the services that deal with the team in this company and take that stenogram, so you will, you can have it right now. Thank you very much. So yes, if. Thank you very much. Do we have any more questions? We don't. Thank you, colleagues. Here's the end of the agenda. And we move on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 57th session of the House of Peoples You got the record, you read it, I hope. Any objections and any discussions? I can see there isn't. Please, about the record of Hasana. Please let us vote on the minutes now. Vote now. So the record was adopted unanimously. Thank you. 10 Thirteenth item of the agenda, excuse me, third item of the agenda, Add.3. Voting on the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation in the Field of War Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the HVO defence and members of their families in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision of Bosnia and Herzegovina, number U-7/06 of 31.3.2006
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5968	There's one... around this point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5969	We just voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5970	No, it's purely procedural. I want to understand if period three is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5971	It is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5972	There you go. If I can get my word now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5973	I wanted to definitely finish this thing, you didn't give it to me. No matter what I give the word. I'm correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5974	No, no, I just asked. I thought you guys moved on to the next agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5975	So I just wanted to, please I wanted to find out that this law is therefore in, this contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, so at the House of Peoples adopted. 11 Thank you, Haso. Here you go. No, it's not about the agenda. Please, I didn't hear what you wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5976	Now, just for the sake of respect of the Rules of Procedure, I respected the Rules of Procedure, and I didn't want to report for any discussion before the vote. Now that the vote is over, the decision has been made. If Mr Filipović thinks I'm wrong, let him say so, but I'd like to say one thing now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5977	Wait, one must end for the other. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5978	Thank you very much, Chairman, I welcome the Council of Ministers present and all those who follow our work. So, I'd like to ask you to understand two things. The first thing is that today we are working on a completely new Rules of Procedure that took effect on 12 May whose provision has not been changed in relation to the old Rules of Procedure. That's the first thing. This is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples because we have completed the debate and the vote on item 3 of the agenda. The Rules of Procedure say a point on the agenda can be discussed. However, this was one specific point that the esteemed representative Čengić realized that it was not appropriate to discuss the decisions of the Constitutional Court because the decision on the measure of the Constitutional Court made clear that accession to the decision was made in accordance with Article 4. 3.d. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also incorporated into our decision-making rules. The decision is over. I ask the Chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure and move on to the next item of the agenda. This point has been exhausted any possibility of discussion after the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5979	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. What now? Are there any interventions again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5980	I think if we're going to break procedures just like that, this is how I'm going to remind my respected colleague, Ilija Filipović, of two facts. The first is that I did not answer my word until this item of the agenda in the process of voting was completed. And secondly, I would like to remind my colleague Filipović and everyone else that the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy is as the competent commission for this agreement, by discussing this agreement and by making a decision by most votes to propose to the House of Ratification of the Agreement, followed by the use of vital national interest by the Bosniak Club, so that the same commission has accepted the majority of votes to ratify this agreement and reached a certain conclusion. Filipović suppose you will not deny that we have the right to talk about this conclusion and that we have an obligation and to speak and declare that conclusion, especially since this conclusion was made by which I also did not agree with the proposal of a colleague from the Croatian Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5981	Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5982	It's not thank you very much, I'm not finished. If Mr Filipović now thinks I have no right to speak, I will wait, I will speak when I am right. I think this is both right and time and obligation. So, respecting the fact that the Constitutional Court has made the decision that it made regarding this agreement, I just want to remind the following. I personally received a letter, as chairman of the Commission, which discussed this agreement or contract as the committee responsible, from a number of HVO peers disabled, or members of families killed in the HVO, that I had also had a meeting and a conversation with them at the request of them and that they sent a letter to the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Mustafa Pamuk. At least that's what it says to me in my letter and that they asked that and that they were looking for the opportunity to be present at this session, to state their position. If you didn't get it, then I'm misinformed by them. Or the mail doesn't work so well. But I want to convey the contents of the letter sent to me and the additional documents. So, that letter says there are hundreds of HVO members from the '92 period. '95. the years that have experienced disability as followers of the HVO or died, and whose families have lived, which have therefore received a balance of resolution from the Federation Ministry of Defence, receive compensation on this basis and have also received a difference in compensation from the Republic of Croatia. According to their knowledge and knowledge of nearly 500 cases, therefore not family but 500 cases individually they know and these are members of the HVO who are Bošnjak, Hrvat even some looks from some other people or national minorities would be, would be suspended by adopting such or hence by ratifying such a contract for only one reason. So they have valid solutions, they were in HVO, they unfortunately got hurt, they don't meet one condition. This one is a condition, they do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. I am warning the Parlametary Assembly that Bosnia and Herzegovina could be found in a difficult situation if these people start protecting their rights in regular courts. You can't do it once now until I'm done, please. You can't now. If you forbid me to speak, you tell Mr. Filipović. I won't let you until I'm done. You can't intervene until I'm done. You can't just. You can't. I'll consider that. You can't intervene until I'm done. I've listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5983	/Specials not enabled at this time/
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5984	But you can't interrupt me. You can when I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5985	I have to give you my word, but you can't interrupt a man.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5986	You can't do that to Mr. Filipović. Be, please be cultural and polite. Wake up, it's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5987	Wait till the man's finished. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5988	Until now, it's happened to you that you've been polite and polite on a regular basis. Be there today. So, in that sense, in that sense, I don't know what will be the future fate of this contract. I know for sure one thing that will continue to cause more controversy than it has caused so far. And lastly, I remind the House of the Peoples that the Commission has submitted two conclusions to the House of Nations. One is the conclusion formally proposed by the esteemed colleague Jukić, and the other by Dr. Vinko Radovanović. Radovanovic's conclusion requires that the word "defense" be changed, abolished, and in the conclusion proposed by Mr Jukić and one and the other, the majority of the votes were adopted. I was against both of them. Not for these reasons, but because I don't think it could have been done or done. Mr Velimir Jukić's conclusion was that after ratification, the Council of Ministers was asked to launch activities to improve the contract and text of the contract in the text it is today. I think it is my personal turn that, in this sense, the House is now and at this hour to make known these Commission conclusions in any way it pleases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5989	Thank you very much. I think that at this point in time and at this point in the agenda we are talking about that decision taken by the Constitutional Court and that at this moment we cannot change the Constitutional Court's decision. She's binding and she's being voted for. That's why I'm gonna beg. I didn't finish Hasane. Well, no, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5990	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5991	This and I think that this, that these activities can be launched in a completely different way, to sit down, to propose to the Council of Ministers to look for a solution to all of these problems that you have cited and to discuss it with a measure of quality. That's my opinion. Thank you. Sir, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5992	I need a replica on this now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5993	Replication to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5994	No, it's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5995	What's wrong with the quote? 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5996	So can I say the replica on the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5997	And what's wrong with the quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5998	Chairman, thank you very much for your word. I protest that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, which you did not give me your word before continuing the story of a respected colleague, Čengić. I particularly respect Mr. Čengić's wish to inform so all of us here are following the media, mainly this point of the agenda. We haven't had a greater interest in the media since this house was in session in this session to this point of the agenda. So, very interesting things happen when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to Hrvat, when it comes to their rights, when it comes to anything to deciding in the interest of the Croatian man in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's like an introduction to what I'm trying to say. You gave your word to Mr. Čengić, and you couldn't according to the Rules of Procedure and he objected to Mr. Čengić for nothing he gave up on himself. I'll remind those who aren't in progress. At a meeting of the House of Peoples, which discussed the Commission's report on foreign trade, foreign and trade policy since 8.3.2006, when this point was on the agenda, the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy told most of the votes exactly as Mr Čengić has decided to propose to this House to make a decision on granting consent to the ratification of the contract. This report also contained two conclusions. However, the Bošnjak klub, using business and constitutional law, did not allow this home to be declared on this report or on these conclusions, but stated that this contract is harmful, or destructive to the vital national interests of the Bosniak people. I thus halted any statement on this report and these conclusions, which was made by the distinguished representative Čengić. I don't want this home. I want the Bosniak Club. After that, we received a lawyer from the Constitutional Court who ordered even the way we would decide. The decision's over. The Rules of Procedure are no longer able to return to that agenda point and there is your mistake, violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm sorry to conclude, so I have the right to note, so you couldn't go any further. The debate was concluded by way of a decision on this item on the agenda, but the Rules of Procedure provided for another possibility, that any issue at any time when the House may decide to reach a conclusion and open some sort of debate or some other matter or debate on something else. So the House at the moment, but only on this issue and that moment, and it is valid and applies only to that question, can in conclusion decide so let us respect the Rules of Procedure. I want nothing more than for all those who follow the debate here to understand that it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, how I intervened by protecting the Rules of Procedure, which is in force on the first day, the first hour. And behind that we're going to change it and we're going to say let it apply, we're going to do that in the next point. For this reason, I intervened while my esteemed colleague Čengić, whom I highly esteemed and respected spoke, had no right to do so. Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u5999	I think, despite the fact that after the vote, a man always has the right to ask for a word and make a proposal that can't affect the vote. Thank you very much. So, I don't think there's much in particular that's been broken by the Rules of Procedure and by these provisions. Here, we don't have a quorum and it looks like. Where's Boško? Missing Boško. Here, Mr. Čengić, we can hear each other, we won't vote, but please, I'd like to conclude this item on the agenda, but it suggests a conclusion to see. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6000	I ask you nicely that therefore Parliament is a procedure. First I take the opportunity to correct the wrong quote. Mr. Chairman, you said we couldn't change the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6002	My proposal had nothing to do with the Constitutional Court Decision. So, first of all, I have not called at all until the vote on the position of the Constitutional Court, i.e. the vote on this contract, is completed. So I haven't answered at all. That's number one. Number two. After the vote was concluded, I have not now proposed any proposal to question that vote. Is it true?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6003	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6004	Therefore, my proposal does not question in any way the agreement which, through the act of voting in this House, was given the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly and goes into further ratification procedure. It's part of the story that's over. Number two. Mr Filipović, I ask you nicely and I know you need pre-election points, but you cannot make pre-election points protecting Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Hasan Čengić. There is no need for that, because I never have the need to deny anyone's rights, especially Croatian rights. So, please don't do it in the future. You know well that I talk about these things publicly, clearly. Next, the problem remains, and it is an important problem for Mr Filipović, which you do not understand. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So by the act of voting on the law where we included and the position of the Constitutional Court we have completed that part of the voting procedure. But it still doesn't mean that we can't discuss the conclusions that were proposed for the contract and I am obliged as the President of the Commission on the so-called conclusions which I disagree against and which I voted against. Here's a colleague who was present, I wasn't restrained, I was against those conclusions, because I thought they didn't solve the problem. However, I have an obligation to Mr Filipović as the 16th chairman of the Commission to remind my colleagues in the House that I disagree with those conclusions, but also to remind them that this House is to be declared. And not only is it not a breach of the procedure, but if I don't, it would be a violation of procedure. So that's what's the important part of the story. And now in the end, to be clear, it is not true that Čengić did not allow a statement on the report. So Mr Filipović did not do it at all, vice versa, we talked about the Commission's report and the content of the contract seemed to me for almost two hours, discussing it. Replicating, leading the discussion. So we had a statement. Me personally, you, a series of members of the House. Please don't be patient. Hold on, be patient. Very good. You have electronics ahead of you. So it wasn't illegal, but it was allowed to discuss the eating as you say or the report and what I'm saying is now the follow-up of the report in that second part, after the ratification of the contract, is breaking the conclusions. However, the problem is in one formula that is not your fault, unfortunately, but that is the problem in which you say in the interest of the Croatian man, so as soon as something is in the interest of the Croatian man, that is the problem, gentlemen. This contract, this contract has nothing to do with the interest of the Croatian man. The contract has to do with a number of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are probably the largest number of Hrvat, but are also members of other peoples, national minorities, etc. And that's the problem. So here I have expressed the position of people in writing who have addressed the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina legally, legitimately, in writing and in this way publicly and only what I wanted to say is exactly that. So this is not an exclusive issue for Hrvat, or the Croatian issue, this is one important issue for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am convinced that tomorrow will also show a complicated issue for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. its institutions. In this regard, I would like to conclude, Mr President, by insisting on the procedure that, following a statement of the contract, you should now make a statement of the conclusions proposed by the Commission, the committee responsible for discussing this contract, and these conclusions are related to this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6005	Thank you very much. Bujrum Osman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6006	I really feel the need to replicate to Mr Filipović at his finding that whenever anything is in the interest of the Croatian man has these protests, it is against, which is absolutely not true. There's no argument he can tell these delegates in this house. He should give an example of saying attitude n.e. The delegates in the House of Peoples were against the citizens of the Croatian people. Anything to talk about. I'm very sorry to talk about this right now. I am indeed the Constitutional Court's decision is the Constitutional Court's decision. It's been voted. I didn't mean to talk about it at all, but I have to give the answer to this finding, because that, that finding is very dangerous and incorrect. It's very dangerous and very incorrect. Why? I will explain why I find it incorrect and why I protest against such a finding, because Mr Filipović surprised me. He's never said anything so publicly before. Because he didn't even have a reason to say it. For me, as a slave of God, as a man on earth, I am ashamed of such a decision, beware of me, and for me was the greatest moral thing, the greatest that someone from the Corps of the 17 Croatian people in Zagreb and Bosnia said, so that is God's injustice, so people died under the HVO flag. Wounded by an HVO flag. And only because they are not Croats and do not have Croatian citizenship, and some even Hrvat may be Hrvat, and they are not Croatian citizens, they cannot receive compensation. It's not that. I don't mind what everyone else gets. Let them win. I'm not against it, but I'm against it, it is. I'm afraid to use the hard word. It's a segregation of people on a very ugly basis. And I'm, right to tell you, I'm startled by the Constitutional Court's decision, because it puts one of those same soldiers in an unequal position in one state. Well, that's terrible, that's for me. Please don't say that I'm against someone right now. I'm against injustice if it seems to any man on earth. Well, there's a group of people who have been wronged here, and don't defend it for me. You fall into my eyes in a moral and any other level. It's a decision, and I'll respect it, but don't try to stop me from saying it's moral. It's immoral, it's low, it's, I don't have the words to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6007	Thank you very much. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6008	Thank you very much. I must really respond to all this because you have really allowed a debate outside of the Rules of Procedure on the point that is finished. So we voted point 3. They agreed to ratify an interstate contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And please nice, I have to answer to these lunches, this is, I can't see, I've never
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6009	We are not done, after each item of the agenda, after each vote can be discussed. Who says it's over?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6010	I'd like you to listen to me, if you've already given me your word. I've never told a lie in this house. I was always telling the truth, and I was just talking with arguments. So, I reject one of these approaches to this issue. I have never been appalled by the decisions of the largest judicial body in this country, so I can't understand that someone is astounded by the Constitutional Court's decision just because it doesn't suit him. I must say that the debate is open after the vote in order to discuss the content of the contract under consideration, in order to show again the anger of this and the astonishment of the constitutional court's decision and to repeat some of the syntagms that we have read and heard in a statement about the destruction of the treaty, which was given by the Constitutional Court of Justice. So, I can't understand how it has been claimed to me here that it has been decided on the report of the relevant representative, Čengić, when the statement entitled to be a statement of giving, that giving consent to the ratification of this treaty is a duty to him not to read it, therefore destructive to the vital national interests of the Bosniak people, which is why we have discussed this, but we haven't decided. So it's the assumption that we've made that decision. We decided today only today. 18 And I would really think, so I felt the need to combine only a very flexible belief of the Croatian people in this home that the Law on Higher Education is according to European standards, that this is something that is equal, that it does not even touch whose rights, and then the Constitutional Court said that this is harmful to the vital interests of both the Croatian and the Bosniak and Serbian people to the intervention of the Croatian Representatives' Club. Not to mention the assurances, the praises, the good solutions of the Law on TV service, the TV system, for which there is no vote by any Hrvat in the whole procedure to the Constitutional Court, and the judges of the Constitutional Court from the Croatian people excluded their views, and we are saying that they have never violated the fundamental human rights of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have been violated and trampled in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6011	I have to, I'm sorry, now I'm going to give myself my word. Mr Filipović, I'm getting the impression that you've been a little over-minged and then, no, no. Not yours, we're talking about Parliament's work. After each item of the agenda, this Parliament used to do so and I hope that this is how it should be done, after having finished the vote countless times, we have made and proposed some conclusions. And that's what's going on in this House, and now this debate that Mr. Čengić tried to direct and bring some extra stakes, it seemed too annoying to you, and normally you wanted to break it up and you said that this session was being misrun. There are countless items of the agenda on which this Parliament and each parliament formed some additional conclusions and proposed them to the government and proposed them to parlament for adoption and that was, I would say, and it is not past the rules and I consider it very normal. I tried to run this session that way. However, I have a feeling that we have become hypersensitive and I said that the Constitutional Court's decision should not be debated. It should be voted the way the Constitutional Court has adopted it, because those decisions are undiscussible and they are adopted, but they are not standing anywhere, and it does not say that after the vote, the agenda item is completed and nowhere does it say that after the vote, there is no conclusion that will possibly improve the decision. Thank you. That's my opinion. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6012	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I think we've unnecessarily raised the temperature.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6013	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6014	The vote ended the vote. The agenda item shall be completed at the time when the chairman concludes the debate on a point, or when he moves on to another point. I think we can agree on that. And that's not a problem of nature. What is really, what is really our object where you should dedicate the story is next. The decision of the Constitutional Court is a decision on the legal elements of the proposed decision and you are parties really have no room to talk. The issue of justice is one other 19 topics that is not assessed by the Constitutional Court. But the issue of justice was the reason for the intervention of this agreement. And it was not an intervention aimed at preventing someone's rights, disabling and making it difficult, but was an attempt to enable citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and some others, or in a broader context. It's very important that we understand each other. What I am pleased to do, speaking to colleagues here from the Croatian People's Club, I have noticed to some extent that the agreement has some elements of injustice. You could have seen that some HVIDRE members made explicit statements in the media that this was not correct and that this should perhaps be corrected. Speaking to some representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I also noticed the willingness to possibly discuss some things and to fix them as much as possible. And that's why I think Mr. Čengić's intention shouldn't have made such a big misunderstanding. It's about as follows, and I think it's for us here as far as anyone's concerned, and it's very useful in the long run. To conclude that parties are called on in the agreement to try to make up an annex at some point that would make certain legal, or substantive shortcomings. I think it's an agreement that will express good will, therefore, and good will and good intentions and I think it'll kind of relax the atmosphere, and, of course, the parties will try to make that annex agreement within the scope of opportunities within the framework of normal international law and all that it means. So I would ask, after a series of laws, after a series of international agreements when they were adopted, we adopted certain conclusions and the conclusion was the conclusion. I would ask you, therefore, to put this conclusion to the vote, which brings with it a lot of good messages. There's nothing harmful to bring about and to try to end this story by adopting this conclusion. I think that, if there was no need therefore, I also understand the bitterness of a certain number of people who are due to this procedure somewhat later will exercise their rights. I'm interested in members, that the victims, that the wartime military disabled give the families of the dead as soon as possible and get as much as possible. So, this conclusion will not challenge anyone's rights because of the disputed procedure, bitterness was present and I understand it, but it was an attempt to remove the unfair elements of the agreement. I think adopting this conclusion could relax the atmosphere with long-term good messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6015	Thank you very much. Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6016	Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate all the discussions and to get some rest, I'm looking for a break of 20 minutes, so I hope we get out of this situation where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6017	Thank you very much. Dear gentlemen, I think we've all thought about it now, that here were the proposals, so what the Constitutional Court has decided, this Parliament has adopted and that decision has passed. [[PAUZA]] 20 There was a suggestion that, if we were to go with one proposal to the government, we would try to find a solution for a part of the people who should be able to fix a situation, a material position, and this law had kind of bypassed them. Do we agree to put this to a vote, this one? Djoco, here you go, you're something. Come on, Ante.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6018	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the body so far, I hope from now on that it will respect the conclusions of the committee of all and respect the work of the committee of the Croatian Club of Representatives and this time thinks that it should respect the conclusions of the commission, external trade and therefore, I would ask the President, here is a proposal from the Croatian Club to read the conclusion and put it to the vote, what is on the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6019	Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6020	First, give me the microphone, second of all, I don't have a conclusion here because that conclusion was delivered a long time ago. I can. There he is. So counterpart Filipović decided to support what I was talking about, and what he had been so successful in discussing all along. I'm glad we agreed, and the text of the conclusions seems to look like this. 1. The Commission shall require the competent authorities, in cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, to amend Article 4 and to define the period to which the contract relates as a tragic conflict. And number two. The Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to suspend the treaty after ratification, to launch an initiative against the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia in order to carry out certain technical repairs to the contract. says certain technical repairs, i.e. repairs, whatever. But that's the text of those conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6021	Thank you very much. Đoko Pajić, did you want anything? Please excuse me. That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6022	Okay, Mr. Chairman, here's what the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Croatian People has proposed. I'm just trying to make a little bit of trouble right now. I asked for a word right after Mr. Čengić, so you should pay attention when. In fact, I meant to ask Mr Filipović when he asked for an end to the debate, we absolutely voted on the Constitutional Court's decision that there was no destruction, or that there was no harm of national interest. And that's where the end was. I was just about to ask that after all this, we finally get to the bottom of this, and that would be the end of it. We had no need to discuss it. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6023	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Đoko. I accept that, but my attention was attracted by emotional charges between Filipović and Čengić and I had to be a little focused on it. I'm putting in a proposal for Mr. Čengić. You have a correction on the proposal. Good for the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6024	Please just put the conclusions one by one on adoption. Since this is because one part of the commission's report on the agreement and the other part is the second conclusion and the third part is the third part. Please put one at a time because it's so logical.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6025	Okay. We said what the Constitutional Court is, we voted on it without a speech. I'm putting the first motion to the vote, right? The first conclusion of the Commission. Who's in favour, please vote. Read it. Well, read it, brother. There's no need. I'm putting the first conclusion to the vote. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So we've reached a conclusion. 9 for, 3 for, no abstentions. Please, we're voting on another conclusion. I'm putting a second conclusion on it. Please vote now. Thank you very much. - 11 for, 1 against. So this conclusion has been adopted. Please let us vote on the third conclusion. No more. That's great. Okay. Thank you very much. Please, I'd like to turn around, tell you that we're going to be working up to 15 to 4, and at four o'clock we're going to take a break, because the College has a meeting with the Monitoring Group and it's going to take a half hour, maybe a little bit more. In the meantime, we'll take a break, and then we'll be able to finish lunch, and then we'll go on again. Thank you very much. If we don't finish early. But if we hurry, maybe we can finish by 4:00. Let's take that pace. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Personal Data Protection Act Is there a report from the commission? We got the report. Please. 22 Let's go to the vote. Vote now. - The Joint Commission report was adopted. Please. Unanimity. Thank you very much. - Fifth item of the agenda, Ad.5. The request of delegates Ilija Filipović, Đoka Pajić, Hilmo Neimarlija to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations Official Messenger No 33/06
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6032	The tenth first reading. So, I'm very sorry that we're actually talking about serious things like this that we don't have any proposing representatives. I don't know if any of the representatives have any. There is. It's you. Okay. 24 I must say that we are faced with a very interesting phenomenon, and that is, as far as I understand in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is, through the laws, a certain policy, hence, a policy of persecution and punishment. The existing laws provide that there are no death sentences, penalties, therefore, criminal provisions when it comes to prison sentences are still long, but they may not be too long. But interesting is one thing. More recent provisions in criminal law act as if this one system is so rigid and so persecutive that it's amazing. So look now, look at the last three years, four of what we've released from the law in this area. You'll see the elemental beginning from three years, year to ten years. From three years to more, from five years to more. Who's creating a criminal policy? Who takes care of the balance? how it is possible for people to condemn war crimes to say for one particular act that has been proven for example. I don't know 5 or 8 years, and that some initial punishment is, the initial sentence is 5 years. If you look at this law right here, from 5 years to worse, from year to 10 years. I have to admit that I'm completely confused with logic, so I'm asking who's running politics here, what's the criminal policy, and what's the logic of that criminal policy? So here's pretty much how things are. He who does a great deal is better off, and he who does a little less, he complains. And I get the impression that it's just one thing that's become an inert, don't be angry, it's probably us from the Parliamentary Assembly who blames it, because those who prepare the laws should say what they think, they rewrite, they write, they hit some punishment. I'm going to be very open, and they're going to get really mad at me, and it's usually about people who have been working and doing stuff like that in the last system, so they're used to having it in three years, five years, let's just blow it up. So the question is, what's a criminal, what's a criminal policy philosophy, what's something we want to get? Here are the fines, I have to say the dragons. And as far as I can see in that law that we still need to talk about, the penalties are also thick dragonish and more important than that, so first there's no sort of punishment. No one can prove to me alive in the world that it is correct, fair, and let alone a just measure by which one crime can be obtained from one to 10 years in prison. No way. You can also speak in bankruptcy, you can speak in both this and whatever you want, the basic form, the derived form. Whatever you say I went through, unfortunately, he listened to those arguments. But it's simply inadmissible. It's not possible. So it's not possible for someone to be punished for the same thing for a year and someone for 10 years. So that doesn't make sense. So there's no philosophy. There's no company behind that. So what's the point? We've turned, we've turned into a blind machine of the state that haunts us, instead of being a society that identifies guilt, a society that identifies the causes and causes of an act and finally the society that tries to commit the crime in some way, in a way to ensure that it is punished for the crime. But we have two consequences. So what would be called social instruction and what would be a personal sanction with the possibility that it would be socialized in some process of work and co-operation, which would sooner be called in communism, or resocialized for God. So in this sense, I'm not discussing whether this was supposed to be five years ago, but I'm simply saying that the penalties provided here are drastic, not specific, and that they only have one function of intimidation and persecution and none of the other. Of course, such solutions and such a relationship, such an approach, such philosophy, do not indirectly open up a space for corruption. Because simply when you face such a blind provision, then one who could be punished and his surroundings are trying to help him, and one who could measure the punishment starts to account could have been otherwise done. A special story is now, if we do an application analysis to see how 25 applies, how much applies, how uniformly applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. And lastly, but not least, it is sometimes the impression that those who work on these laws are trying to be fond of someone's dawn in topics and issues that this dawn encourages or supervises. Well, then, in order for us to be good to him and acceptable to him, we're going to punish him here. So I still think that the way we run a criminal policy or the philosophy of criminal policy is quite contrary to the basic intensity of a democratic society, which is to punish the perpetrator, to challenge the positive social effect of dissuasion from action and the third to open the space so that whoever the perpetrator is still not translated into a social enemy, but a offender who will understand his mistake and failure and who will try never to be that again. So, I think what I just said about these supplements and changes is absolutely true, and the law that's just coming now that we've made it possible for him to enter the procedure, especially. So that doesn't make any sense anymore. If we're talking about scale, please, the idea that there's no death penalty is such a big idea. Well, it's not for nothing. Well, that's how the world is shared. Europe has taken the view that there is no more death penalty, regardless of action. And imagine you now have a situation, we had a criminal law in the past system that had in its beauty the punishment and death penalty. And now we have the same ratio again. The exact same ratio again, the exact same ratio again. We've overwritten the years, but we've lifted the death penalty. What does that mean? That means we are, who can even compare anything with life? How can anything compare to life? So someone to take a life, I mean here in a legal way, in a legally prescribed way, it's a huge thing. Now we've lifted it. Next, we don't have a life sentence. So we don't have a life sentence. And we ended it, and then we kept these lower sentences and lower violations at the same level.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6033	So compensated a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6034	in the glue. No, no, I compensated a little, now put this tiny barrel in jail as long as possible, and these big ones that they did, let them be released, or be in a better position. So this is what I'm saying because this is a serious question and I think it would really be necessary and useful, maybe now that we've already spent our mandate, there's going to be someone more quality than us in the future, but so that a serious debate is really being held on this issue, because I can understand people who do the law. They don't normally have any instructions, that's quite clear. The Council of Ministers doesn't have any policy. Somehow it's considered to be a mix-up of malt not meddling in an independent judiciary, which is not true. The OHR shuts up because it didn't prescribe anything, and sometimes behind our backs it pushes to make something sharper. We know that. And we have a situation that actually no one in this country is running a philosophy, or condescending criminal policy. And that coloring goes definitely to the harm of both citizens and on the other hand we present ourselves, so in public in the international public, we pose as one sharp, not to say one rigid legal structure that reacts so sharply to minor violations, and at the same time there are no scary penalties that are being used somewhere else, not used. 26 To conclude, I believe that this way should no longer be approached, but that we should really sit down and talk professionally, reasoned with statistics, with international experiences and with a key question – what do we want in this country? We in this country have two things, we have a huge amount of evil and we have a huge number of people who have suffered evil. Do we really need to wave these people's dragon measures over our heads again? Here's the idea of it, if someone gives the wrong information, please imagine someone gave the wrong information that a woman has 1,000 marks of pay, and she has 1,500. And it's a felony that could be up to three years in prison. What do we want to do? What do we even want to do? That's ridiculous. I'm sorry, that's totally ridiculous. It's in normal civilized society, not in brutal here this becomes brutal. So in normal civilized society, it's done very easily. The Lord gave false information, did not meet the conditions, failed, did not tell the truth – goodbye, you have no chance of being a candidate. And he's got three years in prison. So what track are we going to? What do we want to do here? That's the key questions. And these are questions for Parliament. These are the questions that Parliament needs to discuss. In this sense, I criticize myself for not being more active, which I may not have in some way asked for a little more cooperation with people who deal with these issues. But it does not abolize others or other institutions, and especially those who still sit on those laws, write these texts and write these terrible figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6035	Thank you, too, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Đoko Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6036	Madam Chairman, I'd just like a brief reaction and a replica to Mr. Čengić. You're right about 90% of the time what you said. But I wonder why, who are you asking questions to? Whether it's me or Mr. Tomislav Limov, or someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6037	Filipovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6038	I think you're right enough to say. But politics, you ask who's running the policy? So it goes to know who it comes from, from the Council of Ministers and beyond. We're here to fix something, but I think your party is ruling, and that's where you're supposed to put it, and now not to me, or Mr. Limov, to ask questions like that, and now we're listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6039	I mean, everybody's right. I have to ask the promoter, whether he has a need, or if he feels the need to say something about this law, or if what's written is enough. Here you go, ma'am. Ma'am, please just say, introduce yourself, name and function. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6040	Thank you, chairman, distinguished delegates, I am Milana Popadić, assistant minister at the Justice Department of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I didn't see any remarks made specifically to this law, so I don't feel the need to say anything about the law itself. We know the need that has been caused, which was the reason for this law to be passed, by the very power of the BiH Armed Forces Service Act, the jurisdiction to regulate this area by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we have a long period of void, as far as these crimes are concerned, because the transposition of this jurisdiction has ceased the importance of the entity law and so this part is not covered at all legally. What I would point out is that our 2003 reform has been passed new criminal laws. Most domestic lawyers, especially the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the nature with the help of international experts, were, in fact, prevented by both the minimum and maximum penalties as they are in the law. Most of these penalties, within the framework of criminal policy and within the frameworks that were before, and most of these penalties have been taken over from earlier laws, especially for crimes, for which the characteristics of crimes remained as they were in the former laws of the former Yugoslavia. What I would point out is that in most other neighbouring countries, which were created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, it was almost identically done. This part that's the subject of the debate today and these proposed legal changes just as far as these crimes are concerned is, most of the time, not to say decidently or a copy of the entity laws, because that's exactly what was transferred from entity laws to this law. I, I'm just thinking that punishments aren't at all high and just because the death penalty has been lifted, we can't believe that criminal policy should be lighter than it was proposed in Criminal Law. We need to understand that we have a rise in crime and there is a good part of it and a severe punishment for prevention for future perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6041	Thank you, Mrs. Popović. Mr. Osman Brka answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6042	I thank and cannot again express my astonishment by the Assistant Minister's statement that the top values in this time remain of the Socialist system, and she has now said so. That, then, everything that was there was practically rewritten and why we fought it if everything in our legal system was left out of socialism. That's a terrible statement. That's a scary statement, so is it, are you even aware of what you said here today? You probably told the truth, but it's a terrible finding. Ten years later, you've been telling me here that everything from the socialist justice system in Yugoslavia has been transferred here and that it's all good and that's why you're here today. You in the judiciary all need to resign or you should all be removed. Well, it's a disaster that I'm hearing here today. What is this today? So what is this today? First with that answer to my asked delegate question at the beginning of the session, and now this finding by the assistant minister of justice, eh, well done, we have good justice. Oh, you can, I want to listen. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6043	Here you go, ma'am. I have a feeling we've crossed paths.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6044	As for socialism and that part, that's what you said and don't say from the entity laws, I said that a copy of the entity laws is a crime that was brought into this part. And as for criminal policy, it is even in neighbouring countries and in our country, because it was even in the previous system. We had, uh, no problem reading the stenogram, but I even seemed to have told me that a copy of the entity laws is a crime that is in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6045	Thank you, ma'am. Please, I wish we could all talk. Mr. Zrna, was there anything you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6046	I did apply, i.e. I think the fundamental question we did not touch on the fundamental question was co-worker Čengić. And it's a little funny for me to make state law by prescribing entity laws. I think the fundamental question that we have here is to ask everyone who offers us any law. The issue of compliance of this law and our legislation with European legislation. I'm sorry, we've already stepped towards the European Union. According to this, if after ten steps we would not break our leg, then treat it afterwards, now is the time for us to receive these laws specially marked and marked by a sign that means compliance with the European regulation, i.e. with European identical law. I think it's a central question that we in this House have to take the words, and this resorial school of copying and I don't know, and I don't get a lot of it in my head either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6047	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6048	Let us not forget that in 2003, Parliament adopted new laws that were fully reformed in relation to the old laws. These laws, both entity and BiH law, are the same. The law on criminal proceedings and criminal laws of BiH and the state are fully in line and not to say completely identical and these laws are in 2003, done according to European standards. These laws were in front of this house for adoption, it was almost and, just as it was transferred from the entity, as far as the military was concerned, caused the need for these crimes to be prosecuted before the Court of BiH and there was no need to invent something again, when it came into force, and it was done by all standards, which were to be met, that there was no need with small changes, these crimes were only translated into the Criminal Law of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6049	Thank you very much. I believe that this statement and this address by the ladies removed some dilemmas about compliance with European legislation and approximation, namely, European legislation. It's a good thing this was explained and I think now, are there any more reported? Mr. Limov. I think we're already here somewhere. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6050	Well, I, of course, didn't mean to get involved, starting with your ambition to finish this up to four, but it's obvious that we've come into an argument. I personally have no objections and I will support the proposed law. I could stand up and defend a different view of criminal policy. I personally appreciate that this is one concept, which stems from other laws, whose provisions are incorporated into these amendments and additions, so I really didn't feel in my colleagues that they had something material in terms of questioning these solutions, except for the opinion that a strict criminal policy could be put in place, it is quite certain that these provisions are in line with the standardisation of the countries of the European Union and that is what is most important. And when it comes to this set of classified data protection laws, then standardisation is made and harmonised with NATO standards, so there is no dilemma in both of these criminal laws. So I'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6051	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6052	It's just a replica. The Honorable lady said there was no need, literally now she said there was no need to change anything in these laws. The point of the whole story is, right in that sentence. This means that our bureaucracy, which prepares the laws, assesses what was necessary and what was not necessary. Why there's need and why there's no need. That's the essence of the whole story. So, if we're going to talk about Mr. Limov's compliance and the lady's respect, compare our criminal law with the Swedish criminal law, which is also a member of the European Union. Don't keep comparing to Stalin. It's not a problem. Don't compare Stalin and his law. Compare a little with the Swedish law. So there is, there is. So, criminal provisions, we will slowly bring Staljin into contact with this. Penalties, which existed in the former Yugoslavia, were created in a revolutionary period of enthusiasm for the working class to arrange the whole world and convey experiences and standards and principles from Stalin's Soviet Union. To this day, we can change the system, we can call ourselves democratic, we can start a multipartial system, but we are still dealing with this philosophy of criminal policy and we are dealing with that, in fact, we have experienced what we should have experienced, that as Parliament instead of saying what the principle is, instead of determining what philosophy is, that we now have a situation so that those working on the law don't get angry with positive bureaucracy, determine what the measure is, and they say there was no need. I think there was a fat need, but since there are no amendments, I can't argue any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6053	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I didn't notice anyone coming forward. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6054	I reject any connection between my position here and Staljin and Staljinizam, etc. And this is exactly, these solutions are consistent with the solutions in Sweden. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6055	Thank you very much. To cross over, we heard discussions. We are all from these discussions, the explanations of the lady, our knowledge and our knowledge, ready to decide now on this law in the first reading. I ask you to approach the vote. Vote now. For 9, v. 1, abstention 1. So we passed this law in our first reading. The House of Representatives passed this law in the second reading, and I ask my colleagues to decide whether we will discuss this law in the second reading. Please vote now. We've adopted a decision to go to another reading. The vote is 8 for, 2 against. So we're going to have a discussion in the second reading. There were no amendments to this law. Is there anyone on the phone right now? I think we heard the discussion before this. Thank you very much. We vote for the law. Please vote now. So it's going to be 9 - 1. So we passed the law. Or 8 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. So the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH, Proposal for a House of Representatives – First Reading You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law, first there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Is anyone picking up? So, please let's vote on the law in the first reading. Vote now. So unanimous. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Please, who's in favor of the proposal? Vote now. So we unanimously said we're going to the debate in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment to the bill. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can tell, there are no debaters. Let's vote on the law. So we voted unanimously on the law and it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. 31 Ad.12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposing the House of Representatives – First Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6058	...when I came here I saw that one failure was made in this Commission report, so please take this latest report from the Commission in which it was essentially all said. In essence, these amendments are amendments and additions to that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6059	Thank you very much, Mrs. ruža. Please. Who's calling? Niko. We're voting on the law in first reading. Vote now. I think it's unanimous. Thank you. I suggest we continue the debate in the second reading. Please vote if we are to go to another reading. Vote now. Also, we go to another reading unanimously. We're going to discuss the law. So, new amendments, except for what Mrs. Ruža said wasn't there. I'm opening the debate. I don't see anyone answering. Let's go to law enforcement. Vote now. Thank you. This law has been passed unanimously, but it has been adopted in various texts between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, so it is an obligation to propose a committee to bring the text of the law into line. Please presidents of the MPs' clubs, Mr. Boško, in front of the Serb people. Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. In front of the Croatian people. Mr. Velimir Jukić is you. ________: Mr. Ilija Filipović. Correction, Jukić, thank you very much. From the Bosniak people. Mr. Čengić. Thank you very much. 32 So, this is the Commission: Mrs Ruža Stojanović, Mr Jukić and Mr Čengić. Let's vote for the commission. Vote now. We unanimously adopted this. Thank you very much. Ad.13. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Ministry Act and other BiH administration bodies, first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6062	I welcome everyone, I'm Rajka Klačar, head of the Justice Department in front of the Department of Security. The proposers of this law are the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence. I don't see a representative of the Department of Defense here, since most of the amendments to this law apply to the Ministry of Defence, or the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense. As far as the Ministry of Security is concerned, I will clarify, meaning, the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration existed, the Agency for Information and Protection, which changed its name to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which, as an administrative organisation, is part of the Ministry of Security. The second amendment in fact, and the addition might be said, would sooner be like a supplement, although we adopted it as an amendment, which is added to the service for foreign affairs, as an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Security, which is in line with the Foreign Service Act, which took effect in 2005. These are the changes relating to the Ministry of Security. Article 2 refers to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. I don't think I need to talk about these powers right now, because I don't see representatives of the Department of Defense, and if you want me to. Rajka Klačar, head of the Department of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6063	Thank you. Do you have, please, Mr. Čengić, we've heard all these statements. I ask that we vote on the adoption of this law in the first reading. Vote now. We passed this law in our first reading. 33 I suggest we go to law enforcement and in second reading. Please vote that for. Vote now. Thank you very much. Please, something, Mr. Čengić, please, I'm asking the concentration to vote. We're all here. I conclude we haven't focused on what we're doing. Please vote if we want to discuss the law in the second reading. Vote now. So unanimous. We're going to discuss the law up to 12-0 and there were 6-0 six of us who didn't vote. We're going to another reading. There was no amendment to this law. As far as I can tell, there was no debate, so I suggest we vote on the law. Vote now. So we passed the law unanimously and the law was passed in the same text as it was adopted by the Representative Council. Ad.14. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Inland waterways and their marking and maintenance You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives gave consent to the ratification of this contract. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. So we're voting on ratification of the Treaty. Please vote now. So we ratified this contract unanimously. Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank Nacional put Banja Luka – Gradiška, the national route of Banja Luka – Gradiška
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6067	I was asked by the Department of Justice just to say a few words briefly regarding this item of the agenda. I don't know if in the materials you've received along with this item on the agenda you have attached a letter from the Minister of Justice Mr. Slobodan Kovač since 30 March 2006. The letter states that, at the request of the Slovenian party, that is, the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, certain minor changes were requested in the text of the contract you have before you, which relate to the erasure of Article 3 of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6068	Thank you very much. We're taking this off the agenda. You can't fix this here. You finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6069	Easy, let's not make a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6070	Don't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6071	So can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6072	I don't know, sit down, I didn't give you my word. Here you go, Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6073	So there's no need to get nervous. We'll settle this very simply. This agreement has already been ratified in Parliament of Slovenia, in a way that Article 1 paragraph 3 is deleted, which is that lawyers from one country can provide legal services in another country. Therefore, we, as well as the commission, accepted that solution made by the Slovenac, because we had a completely identical approach. If we now adopt to accept this Slovenian solution, then we received the contract in the same text as it was ratified in Slovenia. There's no need to refuse him at all, to delay him and the rest. So we simply need to do what the Slovenian Parliament has already done. The Slovenian Parliament has already ratified the contract, without Article 3. We, as a commission, have proposed to our home that we do the same, and this was suggested by the Council of Ministers, and that's the end of the story. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6074	Excuse me, Mr. Čengić. We have a House of Representatives who adopted what he adopted. We have an obligation for this Parliament and every MP to see this letter and that every MP knows what it is and that Minister Kovač cannot conclude one thing, and then make correspondence with someone, and then officially one, and then make correspondence with someone and change it, and that's why nobody knows and says that it's changed. That part I don't accept and I don't think we can ratify the agreements. It was an obligation for every MP to know what it was about. It was an obligation for the commission to do so officially and it was an obligation for the House of Representatives to know the same thing we know about those letters. So we will be in a position to adopt the same agreement with the same legal entity in two texts, and that I think is not good and such things cannot work on Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6075	So, Mr. Chairman, by respecting everything you've said, I must say you've mixed up the pots. It's about the next one. So the commission was doing its job responsibly. The Commission has behind it a truck of documents. The Commission asked for an opinion on this issue on the position of lawyers from the Federation's Bar of Law, the Slovenian Bar of Justice, on the basis of these answers, asked for the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, who did not remember to do so, and after all, the Ministry of Justice replied that we were right, because the Slovenac had long before we asked the question had already been ratified without this disputed part. So, we did the complete procedure that she needed. Do any of your colleagues need to see the correlation between us and the competent institutions, I don't mind. There's a complete correlation. All my distinguished colleagues from the Commission took part in this. We talked. All steps unanimously brought and came to the next situation. We can't make more Slovenac than we are now. So, the Slovenac have already said what kind of contract they want. That's what happens in this case with what we thought. We only have one question now. It's very simple and common. So we're going to have a swelling adopted into two different, we're going to have a contract adopted in two different texts. Therefore, when we adopt in this text which corresponds to what the Slovenac did, we should ask the House of Representatives to return it and adopt it in the same text and the procedure is completed. That's one thing. Secondly, please, this is just one view of a member who is controversial. Everything else in that contract is not that it's not controversial, but it's necessary and useful. Let's not stop the procedure about it anymore. So we have the next situation. If we were now after all the information that we are ruling, which perhaps the House of Representatives didn't rule, I don't really know what they had from the information. If we now insist on adopting the text of the treaty differently than the Commission has suggested, i.e. in the old text, then we would have come into a situation if we had adopted a contract completely different from Slovenac and thus opened the whole story with Slovenia. We have a situation here that we can solve the problem, we can solve this situation within our parliamentary assembly. So we adopt this text as proposed by the Commission, so that you, as a College of the House of Representatives, may then address it in the same text and end the story. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6076	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I agree with the fact that we've both broken little pots here and our pots are a little different. You see one pot, I see the other. However, this parliament has a procedure and it is what it is. She's prescribed and she has, she's according to the Rules of Procedure. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6077	Our commission has, indeed, worked very responsibly on this, and this is actually an interesting thing. What we were looking for, it's already been done by the Slovenac. We hitchhiked it until we agreed to the state level and we got information and we agreed and, therefore, we matched the interest of our Slovenia and Slovenia and there is no reason for us to now complicate Mustafa ourselves. You probably didn't have that information, but it's just like that. All the members of the Commission know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6078	Okay, thank you, Osman. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6079	Here, we're getting into a whole new situation here. But, of course, those documents of ours cannot predict everything. I think we should solve this the next way. So we know what's going on. The House of Representatives adopted the text that came from the promoters, you know, so the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. In time, we on the Commission correctly noticed a certain flaw and tried to fix it. He coincided with the Slovenian proposal, that is, with a Slovenian solution, but they also co-ordinated from the signing of what was formal to ratification changed the content and now our thinking is identical to theirs. However, in order for us not to just do it and cut it off, then that means agreeing with the House of Representatives. In order not to delegate our negotiators and the signatures of this contract, I propose the next solution. Not to finish this today, but to conclude today that we are meeting, therefore, representatives of one home of the competent commission and of the College are not important and, secondly, those who proposed the contract, so the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, therefore, representatives, are not complete and then agree on what is the solution. We believe that this is how we respected the procedure and did not delegate those who signed this solution. Because otherwise, if a precedent is introduced that we are solving and changing the international contracts already signed without this proposed way, I'm afraid we're going to get into a new situation, which is absolutely not good and which is not desirable, and that's why I'm proposing a solution like this. I think that's the best solution. This can happen in the next 15 - 20 days, and at the House session very soon and then we will have an identical Slovenian solution, we will respect our procedure. All those involved will be informed, along with their consent we will do it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6080	Thank you very much. I'll just get you some information. This agreement we are talking about came to BiH on 26 August 2005. In 16.9.2005, the House of Representatives agreed. So, this agreement has been living for almost a year, and we got a letter from Slovenac from Minister 37 Kovač, we got April 3rd this year. What's that? I think that's what came at our request. Then, in order not to be leniency, in order not to be completely parted, I cannot now adopt something that the House of Representatives adopted at 9 months last year, and I am now correcting it for him. I propose and accept that what Mr Jukić said, that the actors of the Presidency, Parliament, representatives of the parliaments and the Council of Ministers sit down and agree to find the right solution to what is the right solution and to see that document from Slovenac, which, based on which Mr. Minister writes this letter to us. Here you go, Hasane.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6081	So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't mind. It would be really historic if two homes, the presidency, the Council of Ministers met, and especially if they agreed. It will be of great benefit to BiH's future. That's number one. Number two, more important than that, Mr Pamuk, I ask you to understand one important fact, and this bar of attorney is both entities, which is, too, rare has completely agreed on this issue and said it is unacceptable to ratify Article 2's position. Therefore, when you sit down, you should represent BiH's interests in this case of barlocks because they are concerned and take a position that will actually be the legitimacy of that, i.e. a reflection of that position. Because they're the base for this. Therefore, please discuss it, but remember that the view about BiH's interest in not passing this Article 3rd position, which is already being done by the Slovenac. Niko of you today, and I'm surprised that you're not so critical today, drew attention to the BiH institutions, that the Slovenian Parliament has changed the text and ratified the text without asking BiH at all, and this is a key issue of mine. That's the key question. So we're in a situation where Slovenia doesn't cut us even two percent, sorry about that expression. So, the special story is that we had to ask the BiH Ministry of Justice and after a few months of waiting, they only got the answer then, that the Slovenac did differently. So if we hadn't asked, they wouldn't have said that. So, I think this proposal by Mr. Jukić...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6082	Thank you, Haso, but I have one thing to tell you. The proposer of this agreement is the Presidency, and he is not Mr Kovač. Mr. Kovač writes to us, and the presidency doesn't tell us anything. You know, there's a little bit, and that's why I'm up for this deal, and that's why I'm here for these conversations so we don't get involved, I'm finally saying hello, and I am for that idea that you're talking about, there's no dilemma, but we're gonna go into a dead end and we're gonna get caught up in it, and then we're gonna be ridiculous to ourselves and to others. Please, I'm begging you, my colleague, Limov called before you, please excuse me, but after these, we'll have a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6083	I was gonna help, but now I'm not sure it'll work after this. In fact, I wanted to say that our commission did the very right thing, and I wanted to suggest that our home fix the matter in a way that we plead as Mr. Čengić has suggested, and that a commission is then formed and that we do as we have done many times so far. Because if you go back now and you lose some time at that meeting, and then we get hit by what we land, it's summer 38, etc. I'm afraid the Slovenac, bearing in mind that if we work with this dynamic, it'll be a year. I propose and I will support that proposal that concerns us to make a statement on what our committee has proposed and continue in the procedure of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6084	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6085	I was going to say, except he didn't say one of my thoughts, I'll start with her. So, it impresses me, I am happy, happy and happy why, as the metamofosis occurred with Mr. Čengić from the person who stopped international contracts she is now pushing and pushing to bring an international contract that is such a good thing. That's a very good thing. That's what I say, and I think he warned you well about one thing. We, however, have to keep in mind, I wouldn't use such hard words if I were Mr. Čengić, if he means well to this country and I don't think now I think more of myself than Mr. Čengić, but I mean well, and that's why I say what I'm saying, so we shouldn't lose sight of ourselves that we have a contract here that is a contract between BiH countries, which is what it is and is where it is in relation to European processes and the other side of the contract is close to us, friendly, member of the European Union. So who, then, did what was otherwise wrong without a prior conversation. So something that's paraphrased, something that's signed goes to ratification on two parliaments, it doesn't change. If it changes, then the agreement changes, and since we now have, don't rush, we now have a situation in which, I have checked, therefore, that it is, the Slovenian Parliament has ratified this contract to provide legal assistance, so between the two countries, so, which is very important for us to have, and that it has changed this Article 3 in the way that the Commission has suggested, I think it is good, I have understood it well and realized it, it seems to me that this home should, therefore, accept today this amendment to Article 3 and the Commission report and then there is no one to talk to but we are talking in the midst of two homes within our Parliament to fix the matter and be identical to what has already been ratified in Parliament of a Member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6086	This is, in a certain way, an amendment to the agreement, whether we act, correct. However, our Rules of Procedure 104 says. The text of the relevant contracts is not subject to the amendment's action to Mr Filipović, a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6087	I respect that, just so I can say one sentence. So, I respect that, to finish the thought at least. I respect what you just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6088	Well, we said we'd have an hour, at first we told Đoko. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6089	I'm the one who concluded that you interrupted the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6090	Please, colleagues, at first we said when we sat down that we were going to have a break for a meeting with the Monitoring Group, I have to, the College has to go to that meeting and this is the time to take that break. I'm sorry. We're when we started after that break that we'll continue in an hour. Here was the proposal, Hasane. You suggested something to go with a proposal that the government, or the Presidency and Parliament, could agree on this, and that with such a harmonised attitude, we would seek a solution to this agreement. [[PAUZA]] Here you go, Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6091	I'll be brief. I'll continue where I left off, because you interrupted the session at the time I was half my mind. I suggested that it would be very good, given that this contract has already been ratified in the Parliament of Slovenia, that we respect what was proposed by the commission led by Mr Čengić, that in the way that Slovenian Parliament fixed it, we do so here today, and that in the same text we make sure that we have this contract in Prarliament by having two colleges find a form of consent, it is likely to appoint a committee for the alignment of two texts, although it is an international legal act that was found here, that these are acts that are in parliamentary procedure, in both homes must be identical, let them name a committee of conformity, since this is adopted here in two different texts, say the reasons why, now you can say that the Rules of Procedure foresees something not to be touched, but it is a specificity so great, if we do not regulate this agreement on the provision of legal assistance between the two countries. He's gone. There won't be a touch. This is the way to have it if the House accepts what the Commission has proposed and, if within this house, there is a solution to having the same text as it was ratified in the Slovenian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6092	A year ago, that agreement was passed. The second thing is that he's not in use at all, that he's not applied. I won't take that risk on myself, I'm sorry, it's not applicable, but it was adopted a year ago. Okay, the lapus is Hasane, I agree, but they adopted him, he wasn't defacto adopted, he was adopted in that home. Halid, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6093	After Mr. Radovanović first reported, I will sum up mine and his discussion. I don't think we have a big problem here. This is about giving consent to ratification, and consent is given when both homes adopt, consent is given to the same text content. korenspodencija was carried out by the competent commission and with full awareness and full knowledge and knowledge we are today deciding on the text in the form that it gave consent to the Slovenian parliament to be ratified and we know what it is. He knows this and the representative of the Council of Ministers, which 40 participated in making the agreement, so he accepted it as a fact and introduced us to the fact that the Slovenian Parliament did what it did and we are aware of what we are giving consent and it is only possible to give consent to such a form of agreement without opening a new negotiation procedure and the matter is simple. We don't have any obstacles today to declare consent to ratification and we don't even need a commission. The House of Representatives, if he had in mind this fact and gave consent to this content of the agreement, has nothing further to do, the matter is over. If the House of Representatives did not have these facts in mind, it is found that the new elements are the House of Representatives that puts it in its session with this new fact that members vote to give consent to the ratification of the agreement in that form and that matter is completed. So here are the positions of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Equal Position. They both have to give that consent. No one has to wait for anyone. I think we can really end this thing simply.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6094	Well, there's no agreement that says what the minister said. There isn't, there's only a Minister's notice, and there's no such thing as a written agreement. Where's Haso, where's the deal?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6095	I wouldn't go into technical matters right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6096	It's not technical. Is there something in the agreement or not? That's essential.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6097	So, okay, if it's essential then there is. So we have the next situation. We as a commission and as a Dom can trust our council of ministers and our ministry or not trust him and let's make a statement about it. As a commission, we have taken the view that we believe the information sent to us by the Ministry of Justice, which, otherwise, under the agreement of the Bosnian-Herzegovic side is responsible for the application of the contract once it has been ratified, referred to the agreement. Therefore, our ministry, which is in charge of further implementation of the agreement, informed us that the Slovenian side had adopted an agreement in the text that changed one sentence, or deleted it, just deleted it. That's what we did, not knowing what the Slovenac did as a commission, and it happened that we got information from the Justice Ministry that said, what you're proposing is already done by the Slovenac, do it yourself, and it literally says so. Eh, now, we have the next situation. We simply, we now need to establish that fact, that as a state, we have proposed it from our side since the moment we saw that problem and when we had this debate with our legal chambers. On the other hand, we have a situation so far that as a House we rule all the facts that perhaps the House of Representatives did not rule when it ratified the agreement and now it is a simple state, what most colleagues said, which is that we need to perceive the facts that are, to act on the new facts that we know and apply, and then the House of Representatives will determine what situation it is. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6098	I can't suggest it. has, please, we're verifying a letter from our ministry, not an agreement. You don't verify the agreement, because it's in the agreement. Our ministry says it fixed it. We don't verify that story. We verify the truth that's called a defacto agreement, and what the Ministry says, then we verify the Ministry's statement, not the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6099	Well, are you expecting Mr Pamuk to come to us President of the Parliament of Slovenia and tell you we did it. How else are we going to look at it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6100	I expect our Ministry and Ministry of Slovenia to establish and sign that they have agreed to make that change and we will...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6101	Mr Pamuk, you insist on something that is impossible. The slovenački side unilaterally amended the agreement, not asking the BH side. We can't come to the Slovenac right now and tell them you have to do it. They've completed the procedure, please, that's the essence of the story. And if you personally can't have another solution technically. We suggest you put the motion to a vote. It's a finished story.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6102	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we've had enough of what you're about to say said by Mr. Genjac, but we're starting from a certain situation, from a certain state. The fact is that the Slovenian Parliament ratified this agreement with the amendment, whether it could or could not have been the fact that it has ratified it. I'd have a question for the Ministry's representative, if they had any information on how the change was made. Let's sort this out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6103	There's one question. What agreement is ratified, one or the other?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6104	That's what I'm talking about. So he ratified the amended agreement, changed the initial agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6105	We're putting on a ratification agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6106	Well, I'm not done. What are we putting? It means the Commission's proposal. We will come to a situation where we will have two different agreements in our Parliament. I suggest that we solve this situation in a way that normally solves situations if two documents are adopted in different texts, 42 and that is to propose a committee for reconciliation both at home and at home and agree on the text and end it. I think it's the simplest way. What Mr. Genjac has suggested to withdraw the House of Representatives, or annul the decision, I don't know if he can do it, undo his previous decision and go into the new one, I think this is simpler and much more practical.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6107	Okay. Please, we suggest that we adopt an agreement to amend the agreement, as our commission suggests. Which is why you're voting now. Vote now. Please, it's been a while. The second thing is, since it's two agreements in different texts, let's get the commission. A proposal from a Serbian Nardhaza member of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6108	Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6109	Goran Milojević. From the Hrvat. Velimir Jukić. From the Bošnjak. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6110	Mustafa Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6111	I won't. I have the right to say no.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6112	Is the Bosniak Club proposing Mr. Pamuk?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6113	I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6114	Then we'll get me. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6115	If we agree, we can't agree when we can. Please vote for the commission. Vote now. We've adopted. 10 for 1 abstention. 43 Ad.17. Giving consent to ratification of agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the arrangement of mutual property-legal relations You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives gave consent to the ratification of this contract. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? I'm putting consent on the table. Vote now. So the agreement to ratify the BiH-Macedonia Treaty was adopted unanimously. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratification of the air traffic agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Greece
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6118	So, you got the commission's report today. However, the commission has discussed this issue several times, and before that, before today's statement, the Commission has also asked the House of Peoples and the House of Peoples has asked the Council of Ministers to initiate contacts with the Greek side and agree on an amendment in order to allow reciprocity. The contract envisions that Bosnian Herzegovina companies can only fly to Athens, while Greek companies can fly to all four airports in BiH. Today, after a longer discussion, in which the commission is familiar with the negotiators that the agreement has occurred. The Commission has taken a different position than the last time and has proposed most votes to ratify this agreement. I still think it's the wrong approach for two reasons. First, because we already have Dom's decision, which is different from this commission's position and secondly, because we're going into a dangerous precedent here, which is that we don't respect reciprocity towards ourselves. Yes, Bosnia and Herzegovina has proposed all destinations in both countries. Greece refused. After that, Bosnia and Herzegovina remained to allow Greece all destinations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, that's a brief review of what happened. I think we have a situation here that the Dom needs to decide whether or not it's going to be any different now than how it pleaded last time on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6119	Thank you very much. Here, we heard Mr. Čengić's exposure. Is anyone else picking up? As far as I can see, no one. I'm putting a motion to vote. Please vote now. So it's agreed to ratify most of the votes, so now we're going to say 9 for, 1 abstention, 1 against. So the consent is given. 44 Ad.19. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Air between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Any word from anyone. Has Hasane got any commissions? Okay, she gave the report to the commission. I'm putting a motion to vote. Vote now. I adopted that, too. So unanimous. Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine in organised road transport
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6123	Today, these reports have taken us all we've never had, we have now. So, since, here, today goes by precedents of various species, we have another precedent. This contract was ratified at the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives, and then our wise bureaucrats, after all, concluded that these funds were not needed at all, that the loan should not be notified to the Commission at the last session. Of course, it happened next. Entity representatives informed the Commission that this was not necessary, and the Council of Ministers sitting there said they had no idea it was not necessary. When we saw that, then we agreed to make a letter to the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments that they finally agreed and made clear on whether or not this loan should be done and we received, in the meantime, two letters from one of the World Bank, which is relatively clear and one from the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which is so designed to go to school so that these five lines are understood. 45 It's the end of the story, like this. There, because he broke the deadline that was scheduled until half of April or some date there, this contract cannot be further discussed because the World Bank cancelled it. The point of the story is that the World Bank to protect itself didn't want to admit that it entered into something that wasn't acceptable for Bosnia, and these people don't admit a mistake, and we have a situation that the Treaty can't go on, because we don't need money because we don't need money. Eh, how are we gonna get out of this, here you go. In fact, the story is over as far as the World Bank is concerned, which needs to give money, but we have a procedural situation that today we can only conclude that we are from the competent institutions involved in the negotiations, informed that the World Bank has cancelled this contract and that there is no further procedure in this regard. We have also provided you with such a report as the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6124	I put the Commission's report to the vote. Who is to report to the Commission, that we do not verify or verify this agreement. Therefore, the procedure was suspended and voted in favour of the Commission's report. Vote now. The Commission's report adopted unanimously. Ad.22. Resolution of Samir Mušović, deputy general auditor for resigning As far as I can tell, Mušović is not here. You read the resignation, Mr Samir Mušović's letter. I ask to be relieved of my duties as deputy general auditor for going to another post. The House of Representatives accepted Mr Mušović's resignation. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Thank you very much. Do we accept Mr Mušović's resignation? Vote now. Mr Mušović's resignation was unanimously accepted. Ad.23. Information on the Abazović case
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6129	Let me just say that we unanimously supported, accepted the report of the Office for Audit, and in addition to this report, the Office for Auditing also had a reference to those observations, or what they did to that collegiate audit by all points, unlike many other institutions, which never referred to us as what they did to us in order to make our own views of the commission and this home sound, or to do what they were asked of them in Parliament. So I only have the best words of praise for co-operation with the audit office right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6130	We put the commission's report to the vote. Please vote now. Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.26. BiH Election Commission's 2005 report 47 you've received a report from the commission. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. This is Mr. Šehić. I don't know if there's any need to say anything. Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6132	It's the last point. As we are sensitive today, some of us are nervous, some of us are swindled like Mr. Čengić, yet I will, since the last point is to say a few words and out of respect for Mr. Šehić, a member of the Electoral Red Commission who has been paying attention to our work, waiting for it to burn down on this report. I would just like to say a few words, concerning the impressions of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which discussed this report, rated it as rarely of quality, so I do not think this is the only quality report, but a rare quality report by one institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is good, therefore and faithfully depicted the overall results of the Central Election Commission's work, i.e. the Election Commission as it was called until the day and during 2005, for which this report is submitted. So she worked in quality, very dedicatedness, so the public and the public are represented. This Parliament would have to appreciate it, it would have to accept it and understand that it is indeed a very complex business, a very important institution in the conduct of elections, local elections, the implementation of the Election Law, the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest, the financing of political parties, a number of seminars, the education of all levels that are very necessary, because it is a specific matter and it is a small, professional, quality ensemble, very dedicated and valuable, which has been assessed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as a very good one and concluded to convey it in this way. If I have not said enough of the other members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to pass on to this home, this is all recorded, and I am saying so, let it remain a trail of one valuable institution of this attractive, because we are not always in a position to dry quality praises, this is what it looks like, about the work of certain state institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I ask this House to bear in mind that future reports of valuable institutions do not put forward as the last points when we are all tired, when we are already waiting for this, to end our agenda, rather than to put it in place when we are rested that we may be able to discuss a little quality and figures such institutions have in terms of both human and material and technical equipment, which is necessary and the proposal is in our report that we also account through the next projections of the budget that this and such institutions of the state of BiH and normal material life, the material conditions. We suggest that Dom accept this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-23-0.u6133	One of my remarks to Mr Filipović, before the beginning of the session, that is, at the beginning of the session, we read the agenda and it was very transparent. If you were unhappy and if you thought as you now think you wouldn't mind having this report on the third point of the agenda and please, we should have seen it. I am voting on the report on the work of the BiH Election Commission. The report was unanimously adopted. 48 I thank you all for your cooperation. We were in a bit of a hurry, we made some mistakes, we got a little angry sometimes, but all in all this is going to be one day like everybody else and it's always going to be a friendly memory. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 6:10 p.m.
