ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23894	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 79th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual for this regular session of the House of Representatives, our regular guests are normally invited, which we call on: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputies in the Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, the OSCE, the European Union, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the Monitoring Mission in BiH and representatives of delegations to BiH, accompanied by the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the UN mission in BiH and representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. To discuss their reports, i.e. information on the work at the session, representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Central Bank of BiH, the Office for Auditing BiH, the Election Commission, the Official List and the Commission for concessions in BiH were invited today. According to the service report, I find that the session is attended by 33 MPs, of which 19 from the Federation and 14 from Republika Srpska. The absence from the session was justified by Mr. Nijaz Duraković, the official route, Mr. Ibrahim Đedović and Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here, now I'm getting a notice that Mrs Fatima Leho has justified the occupancy of today's session due to her illness. Ladies and gentlemen, as usual today, before the beginning of this session, we had a session of the College and the College of the House in an extended composition. Meanwhile, several laws have been submitted to the House of Representatives since the session was called up to date with requests to be discussed by a hasty procedure. We have also prepared a proposal to amend the new Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from the Colleges in an extended composition. The consensus decided to supplement the draft agenda with the following points: 1. The request of MPs Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić to consider amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on Additional Value, by a hasty procedure, pursuant to Article 105, is required by MP Beriz Belkić. Rules of Procedure, 2 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, under procedure 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft Law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. A report on the Financial Service List has been downloaded from the agenda. This is at the request of the relevant Commission, and a report on the alignment of the identical text of the Personal Data Protection Act has been included. Also, on a proposal from the Extended College, a proposal for a conclusion on the definition of BiH's borders was included on the agenda. You ladies and gentlemen have received an updated draft agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. The first was Mr. Sipović. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23895	Dear guests, representatives of the executive government, representatives of the media, representatives of the international community, I have a concrete proposal. I am giving the initiative, given the developments, information from the media, reports by our officials, the chairman of the Presidency, who was visiting the US and other representatives of the political parties of parliament, that it is possible, in the coming period, to return to the parliamentary procedure, i.e. the first phase of constitutional reforms of BiH and to explicitly request by the US administration and representatives of the European Union, that BiH with such a Constitution of BiH, which, with such a capacity of a non-functional state, cannot meet the conditions on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. As a responsible MP in this House and as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I am giving the initiative to see whether, at this session today, whether at the next session, whether there is a readiness of this House of Political Parties, independent MPs, that, if this initiative continues to adopt amendments, in one tolerated atmosphere, there is a parliamentary procedure in one constructive dialogue. For what reason am I initiating this? Because I've heard many times that in this home and adoption and in the House of Peoples, change the Constitution and this is a place, with no objection and the wide public being familiar with both NGOs and experts to engage in this procedure. argumenat's why I asked Dom because we didn't officially receive a request from the BiH Presidency as a proposal for amendments to the Constitution, on the other hand I hear from the political leaders, and MPs here to advise every proposal and possibility that there may be a preliminary procedure. Please, the reason why I am based on this, I believe that the elections in October of the elections, which were called by the Election Commission, by the current constitution, in a political atmosphere like this, where there were some divisions of political ones, would be unproductive and undemocratic for two reasons. There's a reason. 3 1. I believe that the choice of members of the BiH Presidency under this constitution would be directly contrary to the position of the Venice Commission, that the election of members of the House in the House of Peoples would also be discriminatory not in accordance with the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and that is what we have all observed here and I believe, because under Article 2(2). The Constitution, the European Convention Article 14, has power over domestic laws, would not be so bad as to try to bring about a new constitution, meet the requirements of the international community, primarily the US administration and the European Union, and to achieve a positive signal to the international community that we are able to make a capacitated state that will meet these requirements. It is obvious that Parliament with 42 MPs, in the next phase, could not meet that requirement. On the other hand, if we could respect the arguments sometimes of the Electoral Commission that it would not be democratic to postpone the elections within a month or two days, I find it unfounded, because it is a much bigger problem for BiH to enter into an election campaign with such political divisions and with such a constitution, and I am putting the initiative to complement the agenda with this agenda of my initiative to declare Parliament. If not, at today's session to plead at the next session of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23896	I thank Mr. Sipović. Any additions to the agenda from the distinguished representatives, please in writing. We listened to Mr. Sipović, asking him to formulate it and deliver it to the Secretary of the House in writing, because it is a procedure, and so we declare ourselves on proposals for supplementing the agenda. Who wants to move on? Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23897	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like two things to say about the agenda. First, we have four laws here. The law amending and supplementing laws relating to value added tax. Points 6, 9, 15 and 16. I'm perfectly clear on the procedure of business, if someone insists on what the Rules of Procedure has to do and doesn't have to. However, we had a rather difficult and difficult session of the Finance and Budget Commission yesterday. In fact, you know that this Parliament reached its conclusion at the end of last year that the Council of Ministers will come to us in early March with information, i.e. a report on the implementation of the VAT Act, with an assessment of several important segments, in particular segments concerning the effects of differentiated rates, i.e. uniform rates and effects arising from the existence or absence of adequate social programmes. You, Mr. Chairman, are well aware that we have a single correspondence between you, above all, like the College, and us indirectly, and even had a correspondence between the Commission and the Council of Ministers, in which that information has been practically two months late. We had a rather unpleasant situation yesterday, in which, once again, the Council of Ministers came to us with a surrogate trying to inform us of something we didn't ask for, or that they hadn't prepared a report that they were supposed to have prepared two months ago, so a few days ago. 4 I also know, Mr. Chairman, that it is concluded in the College, if I have understood correctly, correct me if I am wrong, that at the next session after the address of Švarc Šilingo, the only item of the agenda will be the working part of the agenda, so I say. I'm not saying that this Švarc shilling thing is unworkable, but one point that should also result in effects and when the chairman will deliver a report to us, or give us a report, after he'll give us a written report, which he promised us that adopted the Council of Ministers seven days ago, and they haven't given it to us yet. So here we have four laws that would be logical, in my opinion, to leave, unless someone insists something goes today. Our views are known for everything, that these laws concerning both the Law on Amendments and amendments to the VAT Act that they will after these discussions that we have in the information report, the statement on this will be simple and we won't have to repeat everything together. If the promoters agree that this is going well next time, if not, we would suggest our law to put it behind us so they don't. That's one thing, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask you another. I'm sorry the Council of Ministers doesn't have a chairman. We'll have a chance today, I guess a man will show up when he's being discussed. It's public, I can run it now as a part of the agenda, but here, I suggest we conclude something. In fact, two days ago, we learned from the information funds that some already call a first-class scandal that will break into our heads, which is the construction of a bypass on Corridor 5c around Sarajevo, which, in practice, has been disabled by domestic construction firms to even compete in competition for, believe it or not on the construction of a road with hacks and shovels. So, I have asked, and I have instructed Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is not required here, I consider it an urgent matter, because it is a 5c Corridor and part of Corridor 5c, and the conditions imposed on our producers are allegedly derived from the obligation to international lending for which we are guaranteed. I would, therefore, ask Mr. Chairman, if possible, to adopt a kind of working conclusion that we are asking the Council of Ministers to prepare an appropriate report after the urgent procedure to see what to do on this subject and who in this country should do that, because there is no need for me to give you a proposal to conclude the agenda now, and then we vote, and then it turns out that I am for domestic producers, and you are not. That's why my suggestion, if one working conclusion is in good faith, is that we're asking the Council of Ministers to provide us with appropriate information, which will answer the question of what to do in such and similar cases. There, it's my appeal to you, before the business procedures run. Since my colleague Novaković, the conclusion that the Council of Ministers for the next session prepares a report on the project implementation activities in Corridor 5c, which stems from the law, i.e. the agreement between us and the international financial institutions, concerns the bypasses around Sarajevo, tomorrow it will be Gradiška, the next day it will be a new bridge, not only in Capljina, because these are the ones that make it possible for us to see what we should do, because Mr. 5 Novaković is asking our builders to give evidence that they have a billion marks of work, a billion marks, so Telekom can't make it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23898	Thank you very much. If there are no more reports, I'll just say the position of the College. We've been consulting in the meantime. I think it is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal to address the proposal to amend the value added tax law, with a previously discussed report, logical and constructive, and we as the College can support that these points of the agenda be postponed until we consider this information, which is, as we have concluded now and this morning, after the plenary session of the 24th, and we can also accept this as a working conclusion that according to the Council of Ministers and I think it is, in fact, a quality work to realize and request representatives, not to waste time and to make those who should be responsible responsible responsible. The word was sought by Mr Momčilo Novaković, so Mr. Sead Avdić, and Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23899	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I'll just see that I'm interpreting that conclusion of yours, to see if I get it right. In fact, the proposal is that all the laws that are on the agenda today, and as far as these issues are concerned, are not being considered today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23900	Yeah,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23901	And not even demands to get into the process. Look, there's a request from the SDS Club here to get the law in the process, so, not that we're considering the law today, because I didn't think that today, I agree with all the proposal that we shouldn't go into the essence of the law today. So, we should leave that behind after the report and I find it acceptable, with this being a requirement for him to enter the procedure. So if he doesn't accept 104 he goes to regular and nothing is disputed, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23902	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. We have received, by the way, a notice from the Expansive College, that due to the shortness of time and demand to consider this law to, otherwise, postpone this request for your next session, and I, indeed, find it logical that, when we receive complete information, we will see which of these laws will be justified to go into the procedure at all and I think we will not lose anything in five days, especially when we have scheduled a session of the 24th plenary session after that session of the House of Representatives, only with that point of the agenda. The basis for the representatives and the clubs to determine everything and to continue to go into procedure and to respect it. I think that one really, really constructive proposal was today. I ask you to support him and I think that this is how we rationalise both your time and Parliament's work and overall relations. Mr. Sead Avdić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23903	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am reluctant to do this on behalf of the Members of Parliament's Club of Independent MPs and MPs of the SPU, but I must, from the point of view of preserving the dignity of this House and what was happening at the last session, especially after the House of Representatives' meeting on constitutional changes. So, I suggest a proposal for a conclusion. This way, the House of Representatives publicly voices a protest against the response of the Social Democratic Party and the MPs' Club in this House to a legal and legitimate decision on the failure to adopt amendments to the BiH Constitution. Shameful posters with MPs who have said non-constitutional amendments are a unique example in post-day BiH, an attempt to deal with political insinuates and expose MPs to a pillar of shame. This is against the Constitution of BiH, Article 3. Catalogue of Political Rights d. and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and in particular the obligations arising from the BiH Constitution. The SDP MPs' club in this house was an accomplice to this inappropriately missed attempt by a public link of MPs, sitting together at the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and, in that sense, bearing the greatest part of the responsibility for this act. For this reason, the House of Representatives obliges the Constitutional and Legal Commission to urgently discuss such a threat to human rights, contrary to the Constitution of BiH and determine itself according to the status, position and responsibilities of the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23904	Thank you. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. All suggestions, please, Mr. Gligorić, allow for raps. You're usually looking for a word. You always get it and I ask that all proposals for supplementing the agenda and conclusions be delivered to the College here in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23905	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we absolutely understand the motives of the proposed proposals concerning the download of today's session of all matters concerning amendments and additions, the initiative to amend the VAT law. However, we, by means of this, practically already yesterday at the Commission for Finance and Budget, have finally agreed that our initiative, related to the release of certain things, is being considered after the report. However, Mr. Novaković is right here when it comes to their initiative, it is a procedure, we may be able to do so today, but I have actually reported today to explain when it comes to our initiative. This is an initiative, this initiative was created as a result of the request of the Association of Employers, etc. This is about erasing Article 72, which is practically about eliminating the VAT refund suspension. Let me remind you. The Council of Ministers launched such an initiative and received a positive opinion from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, but this was not realised, as it was related to the tax exemption from graphic services and some other things. If you think it would be good for us to do it today, here's why it would be good to do seven. I agree, in five days, there will be a new Parliament. So five days isn't a big time. However, after the report, procedures etc. Every day that suspends VAT returns for employers is precious. If you think we could do it today, okay, but if most of us are to wait, I don't insist, but we have to be aware that every day people lose, that's what this is about. I'd beg, because it won't be five days, it'll be another month and a half or two.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23906	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić, but I really think that this complete information about all the effects of the VAT application, which will be submitted to us by the Council of Ministers, will make it easier for both the public and target groups and clubs and representatives to discuss better quality and demand for a possible addition. And I really think we should, my guess. So, after five days, 24th everything you think you need to run. I've accepted the reasons for Beriza, but I think most of them were close to suggesting that we rationalize this. If you insist on keeping it on the agenda, I'll put it on. We tried to find some rational way out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23907	I am, however, to stay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23908	I think then Mr. Lagumdžija should also deliver his proposal in writing, in order to make a statement about him. I thought we had an agreement on this agenda, and that was the most rational way out of this situation, so these points that apply to VAT are left behind after the 24th, and that was the position of the College. I will put that position on the vote, based on Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal. If it doesn't pass, it stays on the agenda. Is it all right, Mr. Belkić? Thank you very much. Dr Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23909	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for very often discussing this capital project to build highway 5c and making frequent remarks about that fact. In my opinion, it is unimaginable to go into such a project, therefore, which carries billions of funds, etc., without passing a law in this House on the construction of highway 5c. That's unthinkable for me. So you've allowed all the authorities, executives, commissions, etc. to serve different laws, which are segmentary, you bring them into a relationship, etc., so you create an empty space for arbitrarily imposing certain attitudes, of course and for the possibility of various manipulations. I therefore propose that this parliament be taken seriously and that, following an urgent procedure, the construction of a 5c highway law be approached. I think it's inevitable that no country in Europe would allow this kind of thing to be done. If we have all the good intentions in this regard, therefore, good intentions, then indeed this Parliament should vote on such a decision to approach the draft legislative project relating to this capital facility immediately. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23910	I thank Mr. Kunić. I think as part of the conclusion that the Council of Ministers does so at the next session. It is through information that this home should also be determined through the debate on the need to pass that law. So that's how this question that you rightly opened, Mr. Kunić, is being resolved, or, otherwise, to supplement your proposal in writing. I can't treat it any differently. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Mr. Avdić, you should have been in writing, too. Then I will, in the order of the proposals tabled, go ahead with the amendments to the agenda and put it to the statement. Mr. Sipović wrote here, and as a proposal to supplement the 79th session's agenda, he wrote an initiative to continue the parliamentary procedure of the first phase of constitutional reforms. Discussing the views of the House of Representatives' House of Parliament's conclusions on preparedness to continue the procedure for considering and adopting amendments to the BiH Constitution from the mandated promoter, for reasons of detailed orality at the House's session to declare the House at this or the next session. I think, since the promoter himself has suggested the opportunity to plead at this or next session, that it is more logical, based on consultations with the mandated promoter and with the Constitutional Commission to formulate that initiative. That's my suggestion. So, not saying no to this proposal, because the proposer himself here suggested a possibility. I think it would be a more precise statement. We're putting on a plea. raspava is over, sir. I explicitly read what you wrote. So, I'm putting this proposal forward by Mr. Sipović. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. Vote now. So this initiative didn't get the necessary general majority. We move on to the next conclusion. Please, the debate is closed, the voting procedure is closed. Mr. Sipovic's business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23911	Mr. Chairman of this high house, it is obvious that when you as chairman, who took the oath to respect the Constitution, the law of this country and the democracy of the highest postulate of democracy, when you put my initiative in such a way, and not calling me a proposal to supplement, manipulate when this House puts this House on vote 7 for such a vague initiative, I don't see the reasons. I was going to say that this house is coming out today, whether it's going to be decided today or at the next session, and you've made it a form of my complete proposal that you've thrown out. I believe that this is how you violated the Rules of Procedure and as the responsible chairman of the House that it is not appropriate to deny and manipulate the rights of MPs. And let the public and journalists hear, and it is no wonder that you are in the process of stopping the reform of this attractive 9 Euro-Atlantic integration, and the international community of the United States, the European Union, is giving us hands. So, you've now legitimateized yourself to any initiative and dialogue with manipulations...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23912	You asked for business intervention, not labels. You asked for business intervention in front of the public. I've made it possible for you, and you're going into political labelling.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23913	I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23914	Everything you've been looking for I've provided to the public in front of all the MPs and everything and read literally everything you've written, nothing you've added or manipulated. I didn't do anything from what you asked and I ask you to intervene in business. I made it possible for you at your request, not to hold a political lesson menu here. I only respected the Rules of Procedure and put your proposal to the vote. I respect you, when you insist on political labelling, at that moment I will interrupt the session, I have no choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23915	I'm using my MP's right. Faced with the behavior of you as chairman, I'm initiating an initiative for you to be removed from the presidency of the House. Let that initiative be rejected. I believe that you've shown the trust of this house lost and I'm starting it and I'm asking for a break, to break up, to seek for my own name, to consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23916	I'm the chairman of this session because I'm not going to lead under these conditions. It's a 15-minute stop. [[PAUZA]] Gentlemen, let's get back to work. The College consulted on respect for the Rules of Procedure and procedures and on behalf of the College the word is Mr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23918	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Members, distinguished guests, the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council, the College took a unique position that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that in one tolerated atmosphere chaired this session, so I ask my fellow Members to acknowledge that sometimes it is not difficult to balance all wishes. There's no need for any bile, everyone gets a word and, of course, everyone has a right to their stand. I beg you, therefore, this is a pre-election year and it's still too early for campaigns to start. 10 So the point is, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to understand the chairman. Until yesterday it was me, that often it's not easy to deal with all the sleeping. I'm still inviting you to one tolerated atmosphere. Everyone will have the right to say what they think, but everyone has to abide by the Rules of Procedure, as you ask the College to abide by the Rules of Procedure, and so does all MPs in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23919	Thank you very much. I am now chairman of the House, so I am fully aware of my own responsibility for respecting the Rules of Procedure and leading this House, responsiblely saying that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure at any time in my presidency, but rather, on the contrary, I have shown an extraordinary attitude towards each of the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the House to read part of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the president's responsibility towards maintaining order at the House session. Go ahead, Mrs. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23920	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable members of the House of Commons, I read the Rules of Procedure, which relate to maintaining order at the session. It's a Article 58. I remind you, and it reads. "The chairman maintains order during the session. All present are required to comply with his orders. The Chair may warn the MP, who, by his or her conduct or speech during the session, violates the order or provisions of this Rules of Procedure. An MP who has already been warned twice during the same session for disobeying the order and provisions of this Rules of Procedure will be denied the right to speak. If he continues to interfere with the order and application of this Rules of Procedure, the chairman may order any present person to leave the room if he violates the order." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23921	Thank you very much. You've heard the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We move to a statement on other proposals for the agenda. The debate is over. There's no replica on this. I'm running a session. You just heard who's in charge of this house. So we have a statement that we started on proposals that are on the agenda. The second was Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal that points 6, 9, 15 and 16 should be postponed, not removed from the agenda, but delayed to discuss the Council of Ministers' information on the effects of measures on the application of the Value Added Tax Act. I'm putting this proposal to Mr. Lagumdžija for a plea. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. I find that, with 26 votes against, 8 against, without abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the joint proposal of the College, based on Mr Lagumdzija's initiative, is accepted that points 6, 9, 15 and 16 in today's agenda are postponed to consider and put on the agenda, after considering the information on the effects of the application of the law on additional value, which will be submitted to this House 24 this month. 11 We have another proposal, which Mr. Lagumdžija submitted, which is that, and this is Dr. Kunić, I apologize. To settle for an emergency procedure the construction of a 5c highway law. The Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Council of Ministers to make a priority law on the construction of highway 5c. This can only be as the conclusion of this home included. That's the conclusion we have yet to make, and we did. The agenda point in the form of a conclusion, as I've read. I put this proposal to Mr. Kunić for a plea. I ask the MPs to prepare and vote now. I find that with 35 votes for, 1 against, without abstention, this proposal was accepted by Mr. Petar Kunić as the final item of the agenda. We still have a proposal for a conclusion, which was submitted in writing by a gentleman, I said Mr. Lagumdžija written form around Corridor 5c. Here you go again, I'm ready to put it on the plea, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23922	I thought it was something that wasn't controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23923	Well, it's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23924	To give us adequate information on Corridor 5c with a detour around Sarajevo, related to the latest developments regarding stopping domestic producers to compete with the point. It's just the job's conclusion, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23925	Mr. Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers, can be given the floor according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dama and gentlemen of the MPs, here, unfortunately I wasn't at the moment when counsel from Lagumdžija proposed this item of the agenda. Yesterday, I received a letter from the SDP president, Mr Lagumdžija, concerning this issue, and I certainly referred to it as one of the initiatives of one of the BiH political parties, who can not know that the Council of Ministers has nothing to do with this issue. So, the detour around Sarajevo is being resolved by the government of the Federation, but here I see that the MP Lagumdžija is making the same mistake, and I have to go out and try to explain to Parliament that this is a project that is exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Federation government. So, the Council of Ministers did nothing but project documentation, no investment work we did, and we did not call tenders for performers. Project documentation is still under way. We have published an international invitation tender to show interest in project documentation and 12 of this corridor. It was done in a transparent manner, according to the World Bank standards, and if our legislation does not ask us to, we already have one serious number of firms, who have applied to come and review the documentation, so that they can form tender procedures together. I would suggest to Parliament that it not obliges the Council of Ministers to submit a report on this subject, but as is normal for Parliament to request from the resolution ministry in the government of the Federation of Information. If you ask us, then it means procedure, which will certainly take more than a month and by then, probably this tender will end, because the Council of Ministers must get your conclusion, discuss your conclusion, send it to the Federation government, get it back from the Federation Government to the Council of Ministers and return it to Parliament as information. Thus, it is a needless waste of time. I am also very concerned about the fact that the roundabout around Sarajevo has been standing for two years, and I also have the same partners from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is the assumption that we have been developing BiH together in a partnership relationship, for more than a year now warning that the project is standing and if it is approved for me, as well as for the chairman, I am also interested in what is happening, to bypass this unnecessary waste of time, I propose to parliament to ask the restoring Ministry of the Federation for information. So, in this case, we don't have any authority, and I know that Mr. Lagumdzija, Mr. Lagumdžija's president, but Mr. Lagumdžija's representative is also very skillful in using his positions to sign in the media that Lagumdžija warns Terzić not to allow our companies. I warn you, this Council of Ministers has proposed to you, you have adopted the most modern law on public procurement, then this Council of Ministers has determined by its decision that products and services, which are a product of domestic production and mind, can have a 15% advantage in tenders, so they can be more expensive by tendering, based on the Public Procurement Act, 15% more expensive than foreign ones and must be taken as winners. So, as far as we're concerned, we've opened up all the opportunities for domestic firms to work, among other things, Corridor 5c, which is mentioned in this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23927	Thank you very much. The debate is over. We've got an explanation, you can only insist, if we're going to make a statement on your proposal for a conclusion. The debate is over. You asked for information and made a proposal to declare this home. Here's a word and I'll put this to the vote on your proposal. Dr. Crescent. He's a Lagumdžija. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23928	Mr. Chairman, the Prime Minister is to us, I was, indeed, expecting him, even at the break I told him, but obviously I don't think I have a manetogram of what I told him on the break. I really expected him to come out and say okay I'll deliver and I understand the extent of the problem ahead of us. If you're going to be bureaucratic, then send a letter to the federal, and then they're going to be in their resolution, and they're going to be indisposed, and they're not going to be able to get a job if you're 15% cheaper on the procurement bill. This is about the fact that domestic companies can't qualify at all to compete in that competition. 13 Therefore, it is the most important violation of all principles, but why the Council of Ministers and the address, first it is for us address and even when we ask if something has been done in a municipality. We're not talking to the municipality, that's one thing. The second thing is that the Council of Ministers is exactly what Mr. Chairman was talking about, practically the bearer of the arrangement between us and the international financial institutions behind which local lower levels are hiding, when they are preventing domestic firms from getting a job. In other words, Mr. Chairman, which they say we have the right President of the Council of Ministers, he would immediately call a meeting after this, arrange a meeting with the competent people, see what's going on and inform us in 48 hours what's going on and what's to be done, even if his conclusion is that I have nothing to do with this. Allow me, I'd ask, I can paralyze with him as much as Bog wills, but obviously nothing helps. I would therefore ask, and we will have the opportunity to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers on the next one, or on one of the issues, but to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers. So I'd ask you to put this in a statement, the way I suggested, and Mr. Chairman, if he wants a debate, he'll have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23929	Thank you very much. I was just suggesting we put that proposal to the plea. Correction, the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23930	Here I had the need to correct a part of the explanation of the Council of Ministers Chairman Terzić. It's not like state institutions have nothing to do with this. I just want to remind you that a credit arrangement has been made with the European Investment Bank, that this agreement has been ratified by the State Parliament and none of the state institutions can now be amnested by either the Council of Ministers or Parliament. Therefore, I appreciate that there is a basis and a way to get involved in this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23931	The word was requested by business Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23932	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you not to make a clean deal out of it. The problem here is that domestic companies cannot participate in the performance of works worth several hundred million marks and dots. Everything else is a question of how we're gonna do it. I don't think there's anyone in this room who's against helping domestic firms. I understood the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the man who came here and said that he had never participated in this business before, and that what has happened so far cannot be attracted to him and I fully understand it and I think that this position should have this parliament. But also, I am asking the Council of Ministers Chairman that he, using his authority, and considering the problem we have, and since our Parliament has a relationship with the Council of Ministers and our Council of Ministers with our Parliament, that he, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers, reacts with the Government and that we do not see a supply of information and I do not see Mr. Chairman of this problem, and I think we can get out of this elegantly. 14 I therefore understood the statement of Mr. Terzić, and it is so, that this council of ministers has not yet participated in it, nor who can consider it, nor should it be regarded as a responsible Council of Ministers and Mr. Terzić for all that has been done so far. All we ask is for the help of our state government to have that information and then for Parliament to react.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23933	Thank you very much. I think this was a good suggestion, given by the first deputy chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Can we accept on the basis of this suggestion that this is how he suggested this part of your initiative, Mr. Lagumdžija? Can Dom take it? I ask that the House be made known about this proposal now submitted by Mr. Džaferović, and the initiative submitted by Mr. Lagumdžija and by the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić. I'm asking you to make a statement on that. Vote now. I find that with 35 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstentions, this proposal has been accepted as a conclusion. And, we are left with only a proposal for the conclusions submitted by Mr. Sead Avdić, as independent and Mr. Žilić as independent and Mr. Ivo Lozančić, Muhamed Altić, to adopt a conclusion as a point of the agenda, publicly expressing the protest against the reaction of the Social Democratic Party and the Club of Representatives of the same in this House, to the legal and legitimate decision on the non-admission of the amendment to the BiH Constitution and not to read the full explanation now. I'm putting this proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23934	What it's all about and putting you to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23935	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm just putting this on, so don't interrupt me, please, because I've concluded the debate on the agenda. You had the opportunity when Mr. Avdić suggested you react and would always get the word. So, well, you'll get the word. Well, you've always got the word. What's the problem? I didn't start to fail her, I read what Mr. Avdić's proposal for a conclusion was. Well, let's be minimally dignified. Tell me when you haven't received your word and when I took away your word and denied your word. All MPs can declare whether this will be or will not be the item of the agenda. If there is a debate and your status and your party and the Club of Representatives is legitimate and open, but the debate on the agenda is concluded. I didn't deny it to anyone. There were no more reports after all the proposals were submitted and that is the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to explain the Rules of Procedure and to stick to the Rules of Procedure and that the debate on the agenda was over, and in the agenda as a supplement was this proposal submitted by Mr Avdić on behalf of this club and I am putting it on the line. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23936	First, Mr. Chairman, I thank you first. Secondly, by looking at the stenogram, I would just like to remind you that we are not called the Social Democratic Party as you said the Colloquial may call us, but the Social Democratic Party, the abbreviations could lead to confusion. So, just to get your business attention that you called us wrong. Secondly, it is unclear from this of yours and from what Mr. Avdić is, he asked for the conclusion, not the agenda point, and then the debate, to be clear, because I did not ask the agenda point to conclude that the prime minister is giving us information that is normal, but I asked to conclude it without a big one, because it is a very clear thing. If Mr. Avdić is looking for a agenda point, then let him define his name, and there can be no point of the four-pass agenda. Because the way you've divided us right here, it turns out that we're running a conclusion now, without even getting into the agenda. So let's get clear to business whether this is the conclusion that we got here, so we're discussing it now before we move to the agenda, or the man wants the agenda point, the undertakers, and I don't know what it's called, I didn't see it, because from this, very imaginative. Well, be careful, let me be very clear, Mr. Chairman, because you see what we've got here. Here in this proposal, the conclusion is that what we did is against the Constitution, Article 3. The catalogue of political rights, first of all, is not a member of Article 3. So, incorrectly already in this one, the catalog of human rights d. and Mr. says, here is the legal basis that is incorrect, and that is that we have actually disabled the right to personal freedom and security, and then it says that we have made freedom of mind, conscience and faith impossible, which has nothing to do with what it's talking about. Then it says here that it's the opposite of Article 3. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure say you took a solemn oath. So, you have material errors in this. Well, it says here that we missed something. First of all, we didn't even shoot anybody. Thirdly, here stands the club of deputies headed by the president, first at the head of our club, which is not the president of the SDP, then asked by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, instead of the Human Rights Commission to clear this up. Well, there's nothing left to ask here. I thought you'd thank us for 16 for informing the public of something you're proud of, so, here you see, Ruža dearly naturally. We just wanted the public to know something.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23937	Okay, Zlatko, it's a matter of discussion on the agenda. Here, we ask Mr. Avdić to formulate a request for the agenda. If he comes in, say all the views you have, and that's legitimate and correct, you'll open up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23938	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23939	Well, you can, but not now within the framework of the intervention, because I could now tell you that I have preserved as chairman of the BiH House of Sovereignty and that history will show. That's what I'm answering to you right now, but I didn't call you the undertaker and the one you shared as you called us. 16 So don’t use this payphone now, so I’m warning you. Mr. Lagumdžija can finish the word and please stick to Mr. Avdić's proposal to include it in the agenda. If everything you have is included, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23940	So, I'd ask to clarify what this is about, because here, if we're discussing here, then I'm gonna discuss this, because there's been a lot of nebulous, incorrect talk here, a story about us missing someone, someone asking me if you missed Silajdžić, we're not, there's a Beriz in the picture, he's holding the phone. So he's got everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23941	That'll be if it gets into the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23942	All we can talk about is us defining what we're talking about. Is it, if it's a part of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23943	I understand the intervention, and we'll get it straight. Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić. I understood this as a requirement to include this conclusion as a item of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Avdić, you filed this request.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23944	No political exhibitionism can lessen responsibility for what has been done in the past. So we can play and be, interpreting the Rules of Procedure in a unique way, but the Rules of Procedure is quite clear. I'm, uh, I'm just, uh, I'm sorry about that, Article 2. Constitution, Roman two, and point three. A catalogue of rights, because it's not well typed and it's quite clear as day. If you read the oath that the MPs took here at the BiH Paraliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, you will see that the gentlemen have done the opposite.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23945	Please don't argue, same warning as Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23946	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for asking to vote on the text of the Assembly Club's conclusion, three independent MPs and the SPU, without any agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23947	I have a warning for respecting the Rules of Procedure that this can be debated immediately as agenda points. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23948	The debate on the conclusion of the Mixed Club, nothing more, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23949	I'm putting on a plea to be as the last item of the agenda. That's fine, because we did it because we did it as an extended college this morning, so it's a business permit. A proposal to conclude the Mixed Club, and now we'll be told whether or not it will be or not, and I ask the MPs to prepare themselves. In writing you received this proposal and determine whether you are in favour or against. I am putting this proposal on the table as an addition of the agenda to the statement. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. We have a request to renew the vote. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. With 21 votes for, 10 against, 6 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, this addition of the agenda was accepted, thus completing a statement on proposals for supplementing the agenda and on the agenda that will now read. I'll read it from first to last. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 77th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a vote on mistrust by the BiH Council of Ministers, 4. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act, the First Reading Act, 5. The request of MPs Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić to consider amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, by procedure 104. Seven. The request of representatives Ibrahim Đedović, Mladen Potočnik, Vink Zorić, Filip Andrić, Miloš Jovanović, Izet Hadžić, Mehmed Suljkanović, Ivo Lozančić, Mirko Blagojević and Petar Kunić to discuss the bill on the rights and responsibilities of representatives/legislators in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, under the procedure of Article 104. 8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Security Agency of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Nine. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, First Reading, 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Taxation Act in BiH, proposed by MP Mirsad Ćeman, first reading, 13. Proposal for a law on holidays in BiH, with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, MPs: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, 18 14. Resolve Samir Mušović as deputy chief auditor for resigning, 15. Information on the Abazović family tragedy, 16. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2005, 17. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2005, 18. Report on the business of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2005, 19. Report on the work of the Election Commission for 2005, 20. Report by the Joint Commission on the text of the Personal Data Protection Act, 21. Proposal for a concession policy document in BiH, 22. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on the Protection of Status and Access to Infrastructure in BiH Areas and their Use between BiH and the United States, (b) Agreement on Air Traffic between BiH and the United States, (c) Agreement on International Road Transport between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, (d) Treaty on the International Implementation of Judicial Decisions in Criminal Matters between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, (e) Contract on Extradition between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, (f) Agreement on Finance between BiH and the European Investment Bank, Funding the European Convention on Cinema Co-production of 1992. It's about the 22nd point and giving consent to ratification. Now we have proposals for conclusions, which we adopted as the 23rd point this morning at the Expansive College. 23. Proposal for a conclusion on the definition of BiH's borders 24. Proposal for a conclusion by Mr. Petar Kunić, who is the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly, requires the Council of Ministers to approach the construction of a 5c highway law, 25. The proposed conclusion of the Mixed Club, which I read, was submitted by Mr. Sead Avdić. That's the 25th point. No more supplements. This is the agenda for today's session. We're moving on to the realization of the first point. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 77th session of the House of Representatives You've reached the record. I'm opening a discussion on the minutes of the 77th session. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to come forward with a record from the 77th session of the House of Representatives. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 37 votes in favour, without blasts against and abstentions, therefore, unanimously adopted the minutes of the 77th session of the House of Representatives. 19 We move to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23952	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, as regards this answer I have received, will be asked – when the conclusions of the House of Representatives, the Presidency, the House of Peoples will be respected, that is, when amendments and additions of the Law on the Ombudsman will be respected, Official Messenger 35/04. From this answer I have received, I see that it has not respected or respected the conclusions, and neither has the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights, thereby expressing regret regarding the irresponsibility of the Council of Ministers, which represents some facts that we cannot agree with here, which is that under number 1 they, instead of binding the amendment and addition of the Law on equalising the salary of the Ombudsman with the salaries of the Constitutional Court, are linked to the salaries of the Council of Ministers. It is clear that since 1.1.2004 the salaries of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court must be harmonised. Secondly, here is a review of their salaries, and I do not have here a review of the salaries of the Constitutional Court judges asking a new question, i.e. asking the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Treasury and Finance to provide a review of the salary levels of staff in the institutions of the Constitutional Court in order to see if this statement is correct by which they claim that the judges of the Ombudsman have voluntarily raised their salaries. As for the final answer that this will be seen with the new amendments and additions to the Law that the issue will then be resolved, I here argue that the new, latest amendments and additions of the Law have already passed and that no changes have been made, that their wages remain tied to the salaries of the Constitutional Court judges. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23953	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perkanović. Please submit all requests in writing to the Secretary of the House. The next word he has is Mrs. Majkić's next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23954	At the 74th session of the House of Representatives held on 14.2. I asked the question. Here, although the Rules of Procedure say in Article 128(3) that written answers to the question must be given within 15 days with an extension of not more than 10 days, I finally received an answer to the question raised after more than three months of waiting. The question was raised – when will the quantity contingents of free imports be introduced, and the abolished customs duties and the over-the-counter toll material for the bullock for the tov, the heifer of the unsullied and the meated breed of pigs be introduced? I would like to say that I am absolutely dissatisfied with the answer I have received, because for a year now there have been various initiatives that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, based on the consensus achieved by all relevant factors and institutions in this country, have come closer more intensively and, in order to make more intensive and progressive development of livestock production, carry out changes in the customs tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina and introduce free import contingents, and abolish customs and preeminents for breeding tow material. I can only conclude that the Ministry has once again failed to implement the conclusion of the 85th Council of Ministers session, so since 7.7.2005, no conclusion from the 58th session of the House of Representatives since 8.6.2005, which should have been thoroughly taken into account the area of customs tariffs and made up a complete proposal for amendments and additions. Given that there has been no change in tariffs and despite the conclusions mentioned, it is not expected that the ministry will make any shift this year. That means that a practical response that I didn't have in the middle of last year means I miss that answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23955	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Ivo Lozančić prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23956	I thank Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to have received the answer, but I am not satisfied with the sonoma that says in the reply. In fact, the Institute of Intellectual Property has unfortunately confirmed in this response what the assumption was, which is that the selection of a sinequanon company, and by not defining the conditions under which the company can enter into contracts with users of services, has actually enabled the company to achieve these conditions and for this dam a surprising profit. In fact, if the structure were to be looked at in neighbouring countries of this service, or the height of these services, then we would see that it is according to the price list which is said here, and which brings, therefore, the pricer brings the one who does the service, that it is enormously different and that it is really out of logic. It seems to me that it would be correct of this institute if they also said that this company 21 was because some did not sign the contract brought court proceedings, not allowing for this agreement on the amount of compensation. But not to be too long, given all this which is said in response, the SDS Club and the SNSD Club have launched, i.e. they will initiate in the procedure of the Law amending and supplementing this law and thus remove, I hope, with the support of the other colleagues, to remove really some illogicalness in, not only in this law, but also in interpreting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23957	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Lozančić. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23958	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I asked the question at the 73rd session about the fate of the Law on Payments, the reason for asking questions was also the conclusion of this home from last year somewhere in the eighth month, ahead of the annual holidays and obligations of the Council of Ministers to put the draft wage law in the procedure of 1.9.2005. The minister then very bravely and vigorously appeared that we would have this law in the procedure. Unfortunately, to this day, we don't have the law on procedure and that was the reason for asking questions. From this response from its content, we see all the problems that we face and we can ultimately only, in the end, and it says that it is not expected that by half of 2006 to go into the process, and it is close to half of 2006 so that we do not expect to get it in the process and probably in this mandate we will not have the opportunity to discuss the Law of Payments or to adopt it or implement it, and it is very important because of the relationship and the beneficiaries of the budgetary resources at the level of the state. So the content is not satisfactory, and I'm satisfied with the speed and the answer itself. And the second question I asked was about the collection of electricity and the position of consumers of industrial users and households. From the very answer we see that the impact of the Council of Ministers is quite small in terms of energy and the relationship between the State Commission on Electricity and the Council of Ministers and that there are certain proposals and certain schematics that cannot be satisfied because, without further clarifications, we have both seen relations in the neighbourhood and how the complete system works, since we have become a member of the Southeast electricity transmission system and are involved in the overall transmission of electricity in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23959	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić. Have Mrs. Mubera Ušanović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23960	Thank you, Chairman, namely, for what Ivo has indicated, and I was also going to ask, since Parliament has actually accepted this in a way that is one-on-one in order to urgently approach the draft of such a law in the budget users. This is about this point we have today where the College has not failed to appoint those who have signed the Law on the Rights and Obligations of MPs. So he wouldn't let go, I wouldn't rule out tendence. 22 And I do not advocate the privileges of the messengers, but advocate the legal determination of their rights. Not for arbitral determination, i.e. to determine the right by the Administrative Commission. I think that it's inadmissible in the rule of law. And I advocate that the MPs of this House have the status, as MPs have at the very least the surrounding countries. So, I don't advocate, as some media people call me when it comes to it, and they're closed by some parties, they're completely party-colored, they call me when they should be criticized. I therefore ask the College to take measures to approach the draft Budgetary Users Act, on the salaries of budgetary users. I think we should have seen the light of day by now. Indeed, whether we will pass the mandate that we do not have this law, and a year and a few days ago we passed such a law. Another thing, another thing that's absurd. Last time we had a session where we had a session transferred by a public service. According to my proposal, this parliament also accepted with one vote that the House of Representatives sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly are being transferred. They're not transmitted. On one side, we have entity congregations that are being transferred. So you're putting them in an unequal position, they're being brought into an unequal position of a particular party. And municipal congregations are being transferred to Banja Luka when it comes to pointing out some uncircumcised ones, not to say what I'm going to say and that, and we don't have a state parliament transfer. We are all fighting for the strengthening and functionality of the state, and we have no transmission to see what MPs in this House are doing. Well, those are absurd things, please, ma'am. And we stand for it, and there's no rule of law here for the next 50 years. And the rule of law is the key to solving all problems. The college has informed me that it is technically not possible to pass through public service to this Parliament. It's okay with constitutional amendments. Why is that? Why did you lie to me, gentlemen? We cannot build such trust and mutual relations and build a legal state and state arrangement. Let's not tell the citizens for political reasons to transfer the Public Service to the BiH Parliament. Why? For what? What are we afraid of? What are we afraid of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23961	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. So I'm just going to say that I was absolutely also at the talks with the board of directors on TV and key people for the transfer of sessions and that the reasons they offered were technical. I can repeat that attitude and the conclusion of the House that it is again sought to realize it. Don't generalize, we didn't really do everything like the College to get a transfer. It's up to television and their technical capabilities. I think we can re-route this conclusion as a request. The next one was Mrs. Mubera Ušanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23962	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegjja, colleagues and colleagues. I am from the federal justice ministry, and through the State Department of Justice I have received an answer to the parliamentary question about solving the prison problem in the Foca-Usticolin municipality. The answer is full of ambiguity to me, and it seems to me to have been used to communicate with each other very strangely with these two ministries. I'll just quote one small piece. It is obvious that in the 23 instruments attached to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission for Gender Equality, and in your act there are some incorrect formulations, misunderstandings and inconsistencies, so let us clarify them. So for a little longer interpretation, this ministry has not received the report, not with the parliamentary question attached to the conclusion. To note that the concepts are being puzzled and lists a number of concepts that I have not put forward in my parliamentary question at all. And from there, the answer is really vague. With respect to the scope of today's agenda, I will not be long to interpret this answer, but to redefine the question at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23963	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ušanović. The word is Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Here you go. We have another commentary report. These are the comments. So there will be new questions. It's a commentary. Question. No more, I'm sorry, Mrs. Sopta, you're the last of the MPs with comments on the answer received. After that, applications go for new questions. Please sign in. Thank you very much. Mrs. Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23964	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers, thank you for the answer I have received, and the answer has touched the problems I have raised. However, my question was to discriminate domestic production against imports of finished products. In fact, it is a product of children's diapers that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been making peace since this year with imports. And not from the imports from the countries of the environment, especially from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. The point is that these imports are being produced without customs duties, and since the beginning of this year, the economic operator who approached me has organised production and this large capacity that is being used almost entirely for the import of raw materials. All raw materials are almost paid customs duties. And the businessman addressed me with a requirement to try to level it means the position of the domestic economy operator, which, by the way, counts 50% of its production and exports. I think it's perfectly justified, especially since this production started at the beginning of this year so that when the budget was made, it couldn't count on these customs revenues that were significant in its cost price. Therefore, I think that in relation to imports, I would have been more interested in commenting on imports of finished products in order to level the production organisation of this product in this regard. I hope that in the next period of time I will get it, that is, in my next communication with the Ministry, I will try to put it in this customs office, in this heading that is being prepared to comment on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23965	I thank Mrs. Sopta. There are no more comments on the answers to questions. 24 Let’s ask questions. The first one applied to ask Mrs Ljiljana Milićević a question. Let Mr. Mirsad Sipović prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23966	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I refer my question to the Council of Ministers. The question is: Why has the Council of Ministers still not solved the problem of collecting former Hidrograding from the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when the Council of Ministers concluded at its 61st and 86th session on how to resolve the issue of such claims? Secondly, why did the chairman of the Council of Ministers, without the knowledge and decision of the Council of Ministers, send a letter to JUMBES to the Bank of Belgrade on 3 May 2006 asking for only one of the two existing hydrobuildings to be directed? Here I own a copy of Mr. Terzić's letter dated May 3rd in which he called for the non-existent conclusions of the 114th meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 3 May and 5 May this year. I also have a record here from that meeting of the Council of Ministers, which shows that such conclusions have not been reached, nor has the Council of Ministers dealt with the problem. So it's different from what was mentioned in the letter from Jumbes to the bank. I request a reply from the Council of Ministers, and I can add this letter, a copy of the letter and the minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23967	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to follow each other's exposure, that while one of your colleagues is telling us to be careful. The word has Mr. Mirsad Sipović, let Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23968	For the sake of the public, since I can't as an MP in this house who doesn't hold on to his dignity or the College whom he represents gets not a single question from the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina before seven sessions on the fate of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Law that was delivered to the OHR - Legal Department. That's what he says about the integrity of the College itself. I again ask the question – What about this law, when will it come to a parallel procedure in the context of judicial reform? I'm surprised, now I have to say publicly, I'm also surprised by the representatives of the international community, the OSCE representatives, and the OHR representatives and others who are participating here and who are helplessly listening to my initiative to get that question. I'm surprised that's how we don't observe and urinate at the Ministry and at this home and at the Council of 25 ministers. I'm also surprised by the Council of Ministers when I last asked about the behavior of one that is inappropriate to say in a few sentences. Please, but like
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23969	May I have your attention, please? Keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23970	Well, I'd like to ask those colleagues who don't care if they don't at least de-concentrate and distract and disrespect this parliament, this home. And they, for the sake of the public, at least these journalists to tell if I'm asking too many questions, whether it's too difficult. I will ask and ask for a question and an answer from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Justice Ministry and the Council of Ministers. Let the public hear that Karate is an alliance between Bosnia and Herzegovina that has been existing in these areas since '72. In 2002, he applied for registration under the Law on the Association of Citizens, the Civil Ministry, which later passed the case to the Ministry of Justice. And after four years of looking for strong papers, interpretations of obstructions and this one have come to an end, signed by Minister Slobodan Kovač, Minister of Justice, brought a solution number, delivered it to the secretary since 30.04.2006, number 01/6 for a stenogram, 50-RS/02-1 in which the minister signes a solution, he says, rejects, and calls for a completely different legal basis. And I demand that the Council of Ministers explain in detail this obstruction of the most professional sports alliance, one of the most professional sports alliances in this country, whose proud member of the board of directors and resolution of this case. Just to remind you of the last European karate championship in the Bosnia and Herzegovina karate championship, women and men's team won a phenomenal result. Let the representatives of the international community hear that sometimes we have bright moments to represent this country. Two silver medals in the team, male and female three, one gold individually, one silver. From a total of 50 medals won by this sport, and I can see that it is easy to go through this fantastic success that Bosnia and Herzegovina is being studied in sports frameworks as a phenomenon in the karate that a small country has settled into the world and European great forces of France, Germany, Spain and Russia and Japan and all others. But what's Wednesday? Let the public know, gentlemen, on Wednesday, that what is a bright example of this country's presentation is being minimized, it is being obstructed, this is bureaucratic, and we are coming into a situation that people cannot accomplish, a sports organisation that has 10 youth members cannot achieve their status, in order to say that Karate is a Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina member of the World and European Federation which is only recognised as an associate member of the Olympic Committee. And I have been asked by these people, by Mr. Dragan Vikić's president and by all the members and all the athletes to resolve this problem together with the Ministry and to allow the legal right to continue the continuity of this organisation, with respect to all the rules and laws, especially the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. It is obvious that there, along with its Minister of Fines, the referent does not know and does not apply the provisions of the European Convention which are bound by Article 2(2). The Constitution. And I think that this is both a slap and this House of Representatives because they have announced that they will come to the Council of Ministers and in front of this house to demand their human rights, and they will also address the Ministry of Human Rights to see whether in 26 of this home, in this state, in this executive government that is accounting for this home can anyone be so absolutely illegal that they behave with extreme obstructions of bureaucratic and even with some backgrounds that are out of my mind. So people have also announced the launch of criminal charges against those who violate their legal and human rights. I would ask you, Mr. Džaferović, as you are now chairing, and probably as it is called that you are also a member, as vice president of the House and member of the College, and that delegation will contact you to try to resolve this problem which is a disgraced that we have brought such a sport organization. It's also happening to other sports organisations, which is embarrassing to us, and it may be human rights that have been violated. And it is a shame that so many years they have spent, which cost us nothing that we have not yet passed the Law and that it has not entered the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we all stand for the youth, the affirmation of the state and their rights only declared, and when it comes to the really effective state, we all act differently. I'm here on purpose, gentlemen, dear to the distinguished media, representatives of the esteemed
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23971	Please, colleague Sipović, please bring the end. The parliamentary question could take three minutes. You've come three times that time. I'm begging you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23972	Let me finish. Mr. Chairman, so me and what's his name and I'm not surprised I'm just asking for media help. They only support this sport and this youth and affirm the results. And institutions whose task is to help materially and to give rise to it do not do so. And since the problem is very current, I have just spoken to them, and I am not likely to, it will be deafened because the Council of Ministers, or let's say the minister will show the same indolence and non-responsibility. This is what we, you know, are going to get, in the end, by the procedure in the administrative dispute, but someone is going to be responsible for this and for the damage done to this organization.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23973	Thank you. Please, please, dear colleagues and colleagues, according to our Rules of Procedure, asking questions may take up to 3 minutes. So stick to that time. The word is Mr. Milorad Živković. Let Mr. Muhamed Suljkanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23974	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen, here I agree fully with my distinguished colleague Sipović when he spoke about the Council of Ministers and his work and relations with this Parliament and parliamentary issues and I urge him to share his dissatisfaction with me at the next item of the agenda. And I would very briefly ask two questions and it would be very easy to end it all only if the chairman of this committee were to answer 27 - When will the contract on the use of HIV funds between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the representatives of the Global Fund be signed since the application was accepted? People are here to question our ability to accept these funds and implement the programme and it's only for the Ministry of Civil Affairs to do so. And the second question is the Civil Aviation Agency. He intends to call a tender for the purchase of radar equipment for airport equipment in June-July 2006. The question is, on what basis is the tender being called and are the legal preconditions for the stated activity respected? And if you allow the chairman of only one small suggestion that we could prepare for the item on the agenda proposed by Mr Avdić, I suggest that we get these posters in the lunch break so that we can discuss here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23975	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Could I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23976	Let me
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23977	Please, if you want to work, we'll work. If you won't, we can interrupt the session. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Let him prepare himself. I'm sorry, Mr. Muhamed Suljkanović. I'm sorry, Jelina. Mr. Muhamed Suljkanović, it's you after that. Please, I'm sorry. I announced the man and I was wrong in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23978	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues back at the 55th session of the House of Representatives, held on 21.4.2005, I asked whether any activities related to the initiative have been taken so far to place Sokolac Psychiatric Hospital as a social health institution of a closed type for the purposes of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina? This was the result of a whole series of activities carried out through the federal parliament and the conclusion was that this would be the address at which to try, try to launch an initiative for Sokolac Psychiatric Hospital. I'm taking this opportunity to renew the question and expect an answer a little sooner than this term I mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23979	I thank Mr. Suljkanović. The word has Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Let Mrs Dušanka Majkić prepare herself. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23980	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Mr. Secretary of Defense and I'm glad he's here, can answer me immediately and orally. And the question is - Does our defence ministry have insight into the destruction of funds from the EUFOR action and, therefore, in how and where does destruction take place? And the reason for my question is the contribution of BHT news from 10.5.2006 from Kalinovik. It is said that the Kalinovic is being destroyed by explosive unexploded killings, etc. which will result in detonations shooting houses, there are already a dozen of them, smoke and other accompanying meals to affect health, to double the number of cancer patients every year, etc. So is that what I'm asking? Does the Ministry of Defence have information on this and how this country is going to address these consequences, if it is both health and material damage to the facilities in Kalinovik. Here, Mr. Minister, can you answer me orally? It's a little confusing, but you understand the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23981	Thank you. So, please, questions should come here in writing. You know that, everyone who asked a question. Mrs Dušanka Majkić and we no longer have any reports. I'm sorry. Two more MPs have come forward. Mrs. Perkanović and Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23982	So I refer the question to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. Article 17(2) The law on the financing of BiH institutions is prescribed a way of using the current reserve funds where, among other things, it states that these funds are also used for grants in non-profit organisations. In point 3 of the same Article, the funds are allocated to non-profit organisations in a manner determined in a specific decision of the Council of Ministers. Since the importance of the non-governmental sector in the development of civil society, please answer the following questions: - How much was used for this purpose in 2005? - Which NGOs and individuals received funds for which projects and at what level of funds? And -- what are the basic criteria for the grant of grants to non-profit organisations and individuals? Note. Given that I did not receive an answer to the parliamentary question asked at the 65th session of the House of Representatives, so it was the grants that were granted in 2004, according to the copy that I am delivering to this material, I am asking that this answer be delivered to me as soon as possible. 29 Otherwise, I will run in accordance with what the Regulation in Article 128 stands for - that if the subject does not deliver the answer within those deadlines, the applicant may ask the College to place the question required by the oral answer on the agenda at the first next session of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23983	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Mara Perkanović. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23984	I am asking for information from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Security for the incident that took place in Dobrinja IV when a young Serbian national was beaten and with cold weapons he suffered serious physical injuries. Media reports show that the beating was carried out by a group of Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23985	Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go. And no more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23986	Well, I'm going to say very briefly, I think that in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina lately a lot of dust has risen over the attacks on rivals and parents from Republika Srpska at the International Giaji Jice Competition held here in Sarajevo. And I am therefore asking the Council of Ministers, or specifically the Ministry of Security to provide us with accurate information about what really happened in that competition, if it continues, let me say with these misinformation or real information, I'm afraid there may be a lot more serious consequences in some next competition. I'll write the question, and I'd like to pray that with the Department of Security, it will answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23987	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the second item of the agenda, which bears the name – parliamentary questions and answers. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. Proposal for a vote on non-confidentiality of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers I would just like to remind you briefly that the SP Representatives' Club submitted an initiative on 7 March 2006 to vote on non-confidential confidence in the Council of Ministers. 30 With this initiative, the College acted according to the Rules of Procedure of the House, so the initiative was passed on on the same day to all MPs, the Council of Ministers and the House of Peoples. The initiative was put on the agenda within the deadline for the Rules of Procedure, but its consideration was delayed due to known circumstances. From the Council of Ministers, have we received a report in writing?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23989	We didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23990	We didn't get a report in writing regarding this initiative, which was possible under Article 118. Rules of Procedure. I'll just remind you that of article 119. The post on which each of the proposings has the right to explain at the House session the motion to vote for mistrust to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has the right to respond and state its views, after which a general debate is opened. Here you go. Gospodn Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members, guests, ladies and gentlemen. I apologize for colding my little throat, I may have problems, but don't mind me. Maybe it'll take a little longer, huh? This initiative was proposed by the Mixed Club of Professors. Kunić and Mr Blagojević together with me, chairing it, the vice-president has already said about it in the opening part. It would only be held there for a short while if the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives had been broken because it was 5 days on, because the 8th was due and 5 days later it was placed as a part of the agenda of the Parliamentary House of Parliament when the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was in the Council of Europe. After having conducted the debate and asking for it to be postponed, I must say that Mr. Chairman Andan Terzić correctly asked that question in the sense that we should postpone it and that there is no reason to create any dilemma while 9 people are absent from this Parliament. And I agree with what Mr. Džaferović said that after we had that one item on the agenda regarding constitutional changes, we couldn't objectively and I didn't ask that problem, but when we emphasized it that now I say that we could solve this issue both seven or eight. And so on, but it doesn't matter now. I don't want to talk about the reasons that are listed in this initiative, because last time I had a chance to talk about it. Since they also received this initiative in the Council of Ministers, they were to respond according to Article 118. We didn't get that answer from the Rules of Procedure. It just might be saying that the Council of Ministers isn't exactly what our people would say. But we'll talk about it later. I wouldn't mean to talk about this part, because I believe that both our public and we all know the reasons why I think the Council of Ministers in this House should get, or his mistrust is being voted out. In short, some more new things. 31 Since we have spoken, here also today about the conclusions of the House of Representatives, we are also talking about parliamentary issues, we are talking about the overall relationship between the Council of Ministers as executive authority towards the House of Representatives, the body that chose him not to be correct. We got 42 pages, 72 conclusions that weren't realized, and he was looking for this home. It best tells what the executive's relationship to the authority that chose him is. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, and this is new, when we talk about the Highway of Corridor Vc, that despite all the public promises made by the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers and the Secretary-General did not have the necessary documentation, but of the 100 million worth of the documentation costing 33 million. The difference of 67 million is missing and that should also be the reason when we talk about their work. It is such a serious issue, a question of public works that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs and that is practically what Mr Lagumdžija was talking about when it comes to bypasses and otherwise the relationship that these public works should be attended by domestic, practically builders. But, well, what you're secretly guessing with some strangers, we all know that, and Bosnia and Herzegovina know that journalists don't need to talk about it. Next. Concession. I'm talking about the concessions commission that she spent in a year of her work, and it's been planned a million, here's to round up the stamps for her work and that it cost taxpayers 752 thousand marks, that we only got one document that we're going to talk about in this house. As an illustration, it can be used to cost taxpayers more than j million KM, or almost 45,000 KM per page. And instead of the Council of Ministers launching a resolution of members of the Commission who did nothing, the waste spends money because the urgency that we create institutions that spend money, and do nothing, and after a year we get 17 pages that cost practically 45 thousand marks, because they spent it in the meantime. And I think this is the reason it should be because that is the only question that is enough to mistrust the Council of Ministers. Next, when we talk about the Police Directorate, here's what's up with us. And how to argue about it. The Council of Ministers has violated three agreements. Two entity parliaments and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. And beyond the agreement that we adopted and gave instructions on how to work, the Council of Ministers decided differently and we have a problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that's enough reason to leave. When we talk about the Foreign Exchange War Act. And that's what we're up to. We've talked a lot about it, and we've got a constitution in place. You of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, have deceived this House. And again, this parliament has passed an unconstitutional law, as you have offered in the previous version. That's why criminal charges have been filed for you and the minister in charge. I believe that we must take care of the interests of the citizens, not that this congregation majority takes care of the will of the executive government, which in this case practically happened. Here, we also have this example where Mrs Milićević said that you spoke to the Drina bank to get the funding, the problem would not have been that you did not call for the Council of Ministers to conclude, and there is no record of it. You sent a private letter. You have deceived the Council of Ministers to whom you are chairman. You falsified practically because you called for a non-existent document such as the minutes of the Council of Ministers, which under that date on 3 May, under that date you are calling, this does not exist. Next, we talk a lot about young people. The House of Representatives adopted a resolution on young people to be young and solidarity years in 2004 and 2005 and to form 32 funds for youth policy. Two years ago, you didn't do anything. And your mouths are full of youth in Bosnia and Herzegovina and care for them. You had a chance to suggest that. In this way, at least you could, by respecting this huge population, suggest, here's a solution, as you suggested for the Law on Old Foreign Savings. Some full to please something, afraid of breaking the horns of the Constitutional Court. Well, you could've at least done it, but you didn't even do it. Total negativity ignoring what the House of Representatives was looking for. But it's a game of you from executive power with this congregation majority that supports you. That's the problem with their conscience. That's not my problem. Next, he'd set it up, there's more. But I know that you played this all out when I commended you that you were correct in the sense that last time you said let's wait for this issue to be resolved in Parliament, that's today. And in the meantime, you tried to make sure there weren't any people who should support it from the Federation. And then you wait calmly. So it's a kind of farce practically, because the people who promised me they'd vote against, they're not here today. But here's what I have to call out, watch out for this initiative that we need to plead after the debate, I don't see any reason why she doesn't support herself by some, so they come from here from their colleague, Zlatko Lagumdžija. He also had the first initiative, the one he owns, and so he puts it out. It's a no-eat thing. That didn't work either, Tito. ____________ That's not the kind of thing that gets solved over a microphone. You will not interpret the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23993	So please, please, Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23994	I'm looking for protection as an MP, as club chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23995	May I have your attention, Mr Gligorić, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and everyone in the O.R. So, Mr. Gligorić, I was certainly going to ask you to bring an end to your exposure. So that's one thing. And secondly, I ask that when you explain the initiative to focus on the reasons for which you have submitted the initiative and nothing more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23996	I was telling Mr. Džaferović about the reasons. So in the written form you received where the Council of Ministers did not find it appropriate to be worthy of this House, Parliament and to respond and speak new reasons. That's exactly what I'm saying. Now that the chairman's a little nervous, everyone's a little nervous, right? That's the problem. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23997	Please, please, pay attention. Please continue and finish. Please hurry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23998	That means I have to explain to my MPs, to my colleagues, to get support. Well, don't, I'm not a machine, so now he says it, that, that. So wait for the men. Maybe we'll get some support on our feelings, too. Maybe you will. And that's why I have to say this. We did, so is this what I'm saying we had two previous initiatives? And I have to comment on that. Well, it's not, I'm not out of the subject, I'm in the subject. So, we had an initiative, and I'd like you to follow me and Mr. Lagumdžija that Živković can leave for a little while later to talk, when it's for his own initiative, which he normally voted for. And he said long ago, as in the first initiative, you have to give up, you do bad work, you're bad guys. Mr Špirić also proposed another initiative and cited his reasons. It was supported by Mr. Lagumdžija. I supported it too, and I think you're doing a bad job. Now we have a third. Now we have a third initiative. What does that mean? This is what I'm saying Mr. Lagumdžija has some Sarajevo stories that you've made a little deal. Right? So I don't believe it. I believe you will vote for this initiative. Because there are reasons, no matter what we do a few months before the election? Well, the opposition, especially in the Federation, or anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has to bite the authorities by the last second. You saw Mr. Lagumdžija play yesterday.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u23999	Mr. Živković, Mr. Gligorić, I apologize, sir, but Živković is reporting for business intervention, and I apologize to the man. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24000	It's allowed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24001	Please, as anyone will vote, leave it to the people here. Please be happy for the reasons of your initiative and please bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24002	I know you don't like hearing this. You want to be great, good guys. You need to vote and here's the opposition to vote for you. The Lagumdžija also has some reasons. I don't know what he'll explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24003	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24004	that they're not here, that 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24005	Please nice, I beg you. You don't need to lead the controversy with me. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24006	Well, I'm talking now. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24007	Mr. Gligorić, please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24008	Why are you getting into my word? Mr. Lagumdžija says in 60 minutes, I don't know how this man hasn't left his job, and he's gonna keep it. Mr. Lagumdžija, if you vote against this initiative, you supported the Council of Ministers, you said they were good guys. You have nothing to look for as an opposition in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think that you SNSD and SDP should propose to the presidency of the new prime minister, because you are the best in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At least that's what I think. Which will give you a chance to Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24009	do not include-speaks from place
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24010	That's great.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24011	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24012	I was just talking to Mr. Lagumdžija. Next.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24013	I'm warning you, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24014	So you're gonna take away my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24015	Using the Rules of Procedure. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24016	You're going to make a scandal to take away my word for it when I criticize my party head of the vice president of the U.S.A.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24017	Please, nice. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24018	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24019	Please, nice. So, I warn you as the current House Chairman, who is currently leading this session to focus on the reasons for your shift initiative, or vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers, and not on how they will vote and who has spoken on what TV shows. So please proceed after this warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24020	I have purposed my dear chairman, right now to say what I think. And you're not going into my thinking system. So let me have 20 minutes so I can turn to the press and talk to everyone. Let me use the Rules of Procedure for 20 minutes. Why are you taking that away from me? Some of my colleagues promised me this club would support this initiative. There's no Mr. Mladen Potočnik for me, as if he knew I'd criticize him. He's gone! Is that what the proboscis block affected him, so he's out of the opposition now, as well as the proboscis block professor. Avdića, too. The man had one attitude, now he has another. What an opposition to the Federation. Bite the system, man. You know how it is. Next. Here's Mr. Žilić. I'd love to, I came to him to back me up. A man thinks, has his own attitude, I respect that. But it's not because of the founders now that he has to work differently again. So, look out, I wish Minister Kovač were here all the time. He tells me, and you know, Mr. Gligorić, that when you bring down the Minister of Justice, you bring down the state. Yeah, well, you guys really fucked up that you're the state. So if we criticise the government, the individual regime, is not a state. So we have to make a difference in terms of what the state is and what the state is. Bad authority, but you'll vote for that bad government. What am I gonna say about Tuzla? I don't know. So I would really ask my colleagues to accept, and I don't have Beriz Belkić who says he doesn't see the reason. So what he doesn't see when he's always in power. _______(?) When there is no opposition. Yeah. I'd like us to really think about this initiative. Mr. Chairman, I'm proposing something right now. I would suggest that MPs rise above this situation and decide this by their conscience, because I know that it is, and it is not by conscience, but you have talked to it, but I know that lobbying has been done. It's legitimate, I don't have any problem trying to convince anyone, under what conditions, that's another. And that's why I think this council of ministers should get from us MPs an initiative, to voice mistrust. And if necessary, let him work in the technical mandate. But we'll tell them, Mr. Lagumdžija, you've done bad work. Otherwise, when Mr. Terzić enters the village of someone you will come to sooner or later, it is worse if later, he will simply say – the oran he chose did not give him criticism. He's a 36 reformer, the new Atartur. And you're not, though you really are. But that's the problem. That's your political attitude. That's why I, well no, says empty benches, they're gone, etc., and then on one we don't have an initiative for some trivial reasons where it stays and pushes and man now wants to create a new Council of Ministers with new ministries, and it hasn't passed there previously as constitutional amendments. He would now extend the Council of Ministers. The man's in the story, he's going, at least two. Come on, maybe they'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24022	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24023	So, I think it's a serious condition, that this time that's left is not, until the election, any of my fellow colleagues and colleagues are the reason why we don't accept this initiative. We have to fight until the last second that if someone is incompetent, unprofessional, and we've proven it in this House countless times, but when we come, we just put it on our eyes, we close our eyes, and we don't see it. And for some new moment, and maybe it's a new moment that some of the international community want to stay like this so that it can work uninterrupted and, because obedient people in government in countries are also good for some in the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24024	I thank you, too. For a short word, there is, please, a brief word asked for by Mr Milorad Živković. Then, please, one single replica, and then we need to prepare for the presentation of the Council of Ministers Chairman Adnan Terzić and here is where the chairman came. I'll back off now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24025	Just an incorrect quote to an esteemed colleague, Tihi Gligorić. Namely, the SNSD gave its first initiative. So you're wrong and you need to know what order was and at all, let me tell you right now it'll probably be easier for you, but I don't think you've had any doubt about it from SNSD you have support for that initiative. She was never controversial. Your problem is that you've fallen into a SDS trap that we've alluded to that this council of ministers that don't suit them, in which their people and PDP are sitting, need them to change, that they're not the ones who will wash this council of ministers before the elections. That's your only problem. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24026	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24027	Just for a moment, Mr. Chairman, I highly appreciate the efforts of MP Gligorić, who, at the very least, could be the outcome of all this, can be that this government is kept awake and 37 under the constant simple tension of criticism for the simple well-being of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it should be appreciated, and it's absolutely nothing to us. Rejudge, or simply express some system of voting review organisations, etc. Finally uninstructed and prejudged without any political coverage and simply it is freely said missed political investment. So the reasons for Mr Gligorić and those who support reviewing the Council of Ministers' responsibilities are relatively thorough and in this context is not exactly this point of political exhibitionism, but an objectively serious consideration of the Council of Ministers' responsibilities for what has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24028	Thank you very much. So this was an explanation of the initiative by the legislators in the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers has the right to respond and state their views on this initiative, and after that a general debate is opened. Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Adnan Terzić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24029	I must admit that after this opening presentation of Mr Gligorić, it would really be best not to say anything. Only the opening statement speaks of how farce and laxity it is to launch an initiative on the vote of no confidence to the Council of Ministers, and we have used our business right to verbally elaborate our response to the initiative launched. We had this initiative at one of the previous Council of Ministers meetings and the conclusion of the Council of Ministers which, at that moment, I did not chair it was that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, prepared an oral response for this Parliament. So, I must admit that I am also disappointed with the way in which the chair chair led the session at that point and allowed Mr Gligorić to extend the reasons that are actually a point of the agenda with another ten, fifteen new reasons, and especially that, then to explain the initiative, before the debate of lobbys and attacks on certain MPs and in any case it is untrue, because the truth is that I did no lobbying with anyone, and Mr. Glogirić, if you lack more of those few MPs, I may as well ask, as the last time, that you are all teaming up again to vote. We have chosen to say a few things about the allegations that the club is, or which three MPs have cited when they asked for a statement of mistrust. Therefore, the first concerns the requirement to provide funding in the budget to investigate the representative's House's investigative commission all that has been going on since 2006 until today when it comes to spending donor funds. We did not have in our budget as such an item, but we had clear conclusions from the Council of Ministers who before this initiative had tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance to create a single database and aggregated information which was then further deepened by the request of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you got that information at the ninth month of last year. You had some discussions in that information, certain conclusions where you asked for the supplement, where you asked for certain selections of donations, etc. and this is the Council of Ministers together with, this is the Ministry of Foreign Trade, together with the Ministry of Finance and in collaboration with the Codonators, and you have been given in accordance with Parliament's conclusion, you have received one summary 38 information in which everything is precisely based on the methodology required by Parliament's conclusions. So here you have the name of the project, the first donor, the name of the project, the sector in which the project was made, the amount of the donation, the user and the status of the project. So I felt that this point put on the soul in the Council of Ministers absolutely did not stand, where we did everything unlike some previous Council of Ministers, especially the one Mr Gligorić was sitting in. Unlike them, who, in their term of office, did not do what they did, but spent the money. The second point refers to the Public Procurement Act, that no office has been formed to consider complaints. First, I must say, again, unlike those who sat in the Council of Ministers since '96. I am proud that this Council of Ministers has offered Parliament and Parliament finally passed the Law on Public Procurement, which is the highest, modern, European law and which applies in this country. The item to be placed on our souls absolutely does not stand because six months in this house stood a proposal to appoint five people for the office to consider complaints on these issues. For five months, this parliament broke down on the subject and at the end when three members passed the parliamentary procedure, they resigned on those duties and you will receive a proposal for new members for this responsible post in the Public Procurement Act system. So, the Law on Public Procurement, which my Council of Ministers has proposed, is a law that absolutely brings all European standards, when it comes to public procurement and makes it impossible for us to put crime and corruption in the area of public procurement and increase at the time of the government of this council of ministers. The next third item is the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act you had on your benches sent by the Council of Ministers a long time ago. The Law on Higher Education was the subject of debate at the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court gave its position on this and then this council of ministers and myself personally, together with representatives of the international community, primarily British Ambassador Rajktroft and OSCO did everything to make everything uncompromising in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to high education reconcile. They formed a commission that comprised representatives of the entity's state-owned resolution ministry and reactors from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and our universities. The law after all, all possible harmonisations of the law is now in the process of the Council of Ministers and we had it at last session and today I can say that we will vote on it at the first next session to be held next week. It is a law that allows the Bologna Process to be absolutely applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that allows for a clear definition of university independence and to allow our students to move from one university to another in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law also means that we will put into order all the chaos we now have and that suits someone when it comes to the activities of private universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the university that comes from Novi Sad. We didn't propose item four, we didn't propose the Restitution Act, but we did everything to get both Bosnian-Herzegovic experts and international experts and to propose through the Restitution Commission a law that would allow when this segment is concerned to be granted human rights, but also to be adequate to the economic opportunities of this country. There are very poor effects of the Administration's work on indirect taxation. I understand the frustration in the Republic of Serbia's Indirect Taxation Administration. I know it's not easy to lose customs, I know it's not easy to lose tax control, but it's inevitable if the state 39 wants to join the EU. Last year, she picked up 200 million KM taxes more than planned for the first year of her work, saying that this item is absolutely not true. During the first four months of introduction of the VAT, the indirect taxation administration has shown that it is technically and in all ways ready to implement one such reform, a crucial reform of the tax system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that we do not have a loss of income. And data that 69% of the VAT-based income increase compared to the same period last year when we had a lower value added tax answered precisely in the direction that the Direct Taxation Administration was something that justified the need for formation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that management with indirect taxation is actually one of the huge attributes when we talk about the fiscal sustainability of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. I say, again, I underline, I know that there is a huge regret in Republika Srpska for the team, but the Directorate for indirect taxation is today a facet of any unargued attacks on the administration that situation cannot be changed. The Council of Ministers did nothing, number six, the Council of Ministers did nothing about the adoption of the Law on Sports, and that is correct. And if one government is to fall because one law has not passed in a series of 170 laws, as we have passed in our mandate, then it is certain that this can be your reason, for all those who wish to vote for no confidence in the government. The Council of Ministers has shown a lack of seriousness and irresponsibility when proposing the law, in particular the VAT law. I think it's an arbitrary attitude and I don't remember ever having any kind of behavior, and especially with the content of the law, we could give someone an argument that we're unserious. The eighth point of the Council of Ministers did not respect the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is why the House of Representatives had to on several occasions to seek the implementation of its conclusions. Be careful, we prepared the information and Mr Gligorić spoke some of the data from that information. So, if we want to read the information well-intentioned, then we will see that for possible, it was not possible for certain conclusions to be carried out in order for the Council of Ministers to carry out all the conclusions then and the proposings must take care of the quality of the conclusions when it comes to the constitutional position of the Council of Ministers. Surely we have not implemented a conclusion concerning the formation of a commission for the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others in Sarajevo. But nowhere in the world, and it doesn't say that Parliament can't make a mistake and that someone in the executive power can't understand that Parliament has made a mistake. Here, I responsibly argue that it is a single mistake that can open a huge process of creating countless commissions in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to this problem. That conclusion was reached by Parliament after the Srebrenica report was published. The Srebrenica Commission has formed an international community and we know very well why it happened. It happened because no one in Republika Srpska wanted to admit that something had happened there. Mrs. Đurković's request was to make the Council of Ministers a pandan for the Srebrenica Commission. And I must be honest, while I am the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it will never happen. Why? Because I know the most dangerous thing to do is open the process. The process of forming the Sarajevo Commission immediately pulls the process of forming commissions for all possible cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I also believe that I wanted to come to Parliament with a clear view that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina need to form a commission that will establish the truth throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have launched certain activities and prepared a decision to go to Parliament, to ask you to replace, to change your conclusion and to turn the Sarajevo commission into a commission for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 40 But at that time the American Institute of Peace and Mr. Ambassador Hayes formed from the parties sitting in this home formed a committee that was to come out with a proposal to form a truth and trust commission, I don't know what it was called, since I knew that every party, almost every party in this Parliament, had a part in the work of that commission, I stopped my activities at that level. However, it is obvious that this commission, under the leadership of the US Peace Institute, has entered a phase that I am afraid cannot come out of, I will normally, unless my council of ministers and I are voted today unconfirmed with Parliament's proposal that this Parliament form a committee to determine the truth about all the deaths in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus open a process that can lead us to the ultimate goal of reconciliation. The ninth point speaks of how much we attend sessions of homes, commissions, etc. and I agree, absolutely agree that I, and especially my ministers deserve criticism on that account so that surely in the next term, you will need to ask for much more presence at committee meetings and the meeting of homes. The tenth point is that relations in the Council of Ministers have deteriorated after I accepted the resignation of Mr Ivanić's foreign minister and the resignation of Deputy Minister, Minister, Pardoned Transport and Communications Mr Dokić. I do not know on the basis of what is claimed if, since the seventh month of last year, you have pdoataks that the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure has sent the Law on the Prevention and Control of the Abuse of Drug Use, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on the Customs Laws of the Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the Protection of Consumers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Laws of the Laws of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, the Law on Amendments of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Act on the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Republic of Bosnia and of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the ECB, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Europeans of the Community and of the Community and of the Community, on the Community, on the Community, on the laws, on the law, on the laws, the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law of the law on the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law, the law of the law of the law of the law and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and of the law of the law, and of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law I'm saying everything in a period where you claim that the Council of Ministers has enormous problems in its work. So this is the bottom line with 29.12. I just read you the laws we sent to the parliamentary procedure from the seventh month to the 12 months last year. So on the basis of 41 which can be valued whether the Council of Ministers works or not. Based on how many decision-making laws we make in our work at some point. I think this reading of these thirty laws is all about how the Council of Ministers works, is that it doesn't work the laws couldn't get in the process. And now to say a little bit about this extra, it's very difficult to record precisely all that confusion when Mr Gligorić wants to show how smart he is, but I want to make it clear when it comes to Corridor Vc that I'm first proud that this council of ministers has managed to find the funds and finally enable this country and the citizens of this country to make it possible for the Corridor project to be realized. I know that Mr. Gligorić led that portfolio in one of the Council of Ministers' mandates and I know that he talked about the need to build Corridor Vc, that he didn't pull any lines. Today Bosnia and Herzegovina has a project of documentation for which we found funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We haven't been in charge of today's Corridor Vc, all those who say they have investors in the world can come in without any trouble and go into the realisation of that project. On the other hand, the secret conjecture with some foreigners is rhetoric that, I will refrain from commenting, so the secret conjecture with some foreigners may be something people have learned. When it comes to the possibility that Mr Gligorić about Corridor might have taken care of it that way, while he was the minister of civil affairs. Today, all documents, when it comes to Corridor Vc, are on the Ministry's website. Last month, the Ministry of Transport and Communications opened an international invitation tender for all those interested in Corridor to apply and to come and look at the project documentation. No state law of Bosnia and Herzegovina obliges us to one such store. But these are the standards that the World Bank wants done and we have done so that we do not have any secret guesses with foreigners, except that we have a clear and precise commitment to allow every foreigner, but also a domestic investor that is even interested in Corridor Vc, to come in a very transparent way, to see the documentation and to come to an optimally, under optimal conditions, but realistic conditions for which we will have interested to discuss the International tender for obtaining concessions. And Mr. Gligorić, this tender will be announced in our term of office, either as you wish for the technical, or the normal mandate we hold. There were other things I didn't want to talk about and I didn't intend to end my address in any provocative way, but the statement of the man who initiated this vote of confidence still obliges me to say the following – Mr Gligorić, those who today support your initiative will not talk about the Council of Ministers, but will talk about themselves. The EU offers as a negotiator to the government in the technical mandate, and this government that brought this country to the door of Europe in the first contractual relations, which has shown one huge willingness and validity when it comes to the negotiation process, which, fortunately, is not worth you, but values the European Commission, to put it in a position to negotiate with the EU in a technical mandate against this country and is extremely unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24030	Thank you very much. I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. Now, before I open the debate, I would like to welcome once again all the representatives and members of the Council of Ministers, as representatives of international institutions, embassies and to welcome Mr Majkl Hemfris, the Ambassador of the European Commission, and to thank everyone for the interest in our Parliament's work. 42 Order, hold on, you'll all get your word. The order reported for the debate is this – the first Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, the second Mr. Momčilo Novaković, the third Mr. Mehmed Žilić, the fourth Mr. Elmir Jahić, the fifth Mr. Beriz Belkić, Milorad Živković, Mr. Žilić gives up, Živković, Džaferović, Avdić. And there's Križanović, there's enough logs. I'll record the rest. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Gligorić. Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't talk about these details that are generally known and to convince myself it's excessive. The wrong quote is when you talk about the truth-examination committee on the deaths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej, others in Sarajevo since '92. '95. A year. It's a plenaran session of both homes and you should have provided accurate information then, not tied it just to this home. When you were talking about reading those laws that you brought as reformers. Let me remind you, your friend Pedi Eždaun, the visok Representative last time, 59% helped you because he imposed it. Be correct and say it. Next. Wrong quote, normal. The man has deceived this parliament. Corridor Vc. Since you personally called me to do something, I worked at the time after the Council of Ministers concluded and went to talk to Bujik in France and when I came back here, submitted information to the Council of Ministers then I was attacked by some here in Sarajevo that I was a pro-French-oriented man and would do it from Tuzla some Junuzović and some Japa what I know is the name of this one. A flock. I'm sorry. I apologize to the man, Yath. Is that what they're gonna do. Well, you should know. And we didn't spend any money on anything. Because it simply created an air conditioning by the SDA not to give it away. Only you can do that. And it's only fair then, when someone else does it, they can't do it even though we haven't spent any money. We couldn't do anything about the noise you're making. That's why I'd like the opposition to know how to make a fuss about how you know how to make a noise. About the state and I end up, a guilty allegation, I'll always be against the government that's doing the wrong thing, and don't imagine you're the state. The government is changing, the government is changing. That is why there is democracy, elections, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, executive power, it is completely irrelevant in the country if it works badly. He's gonna go. By the way, you've been getting into some kind of shit, you're doing something. So it supports both the opposition and the citizens to go to the EU. Well, it's not your idea. But look how perfiduously you replace the thesis. That you are doing this without all the opposition shrinking around you reformers new in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Don't give yourself that meaning because you don't have it. We have all signed here on the initiative of Professor Špirić that we will go together into Euro-Atlantic integration and therefore Mr Špirić is a reformer, not you. You're carrying out what we agreed. But no, of course, Professor, it's hard to say, too, to accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24032	Please. Time, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24033	Now, I'm ending up, and now you're hiding behind some people in the international community that you're God-given and if you go away, the country will collapse. If this country fails because you 43 will be going to be the Prime Minister's chairman, let it go immediately. And I believe in this country that it will have the strength to reach a better council of ministers through democracy. And I consider you going away, as much as I support you, you are going away for me because you have done bad work.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24034	Go ahead, Mr. Terzić. You can get a word whenever you want. Please, the chairman of the vjeće of Ministers, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24035	I will not talk about how Mr. Gligorić is experiencing my function and myself personally. But I'll talk about what's not true. And if someone gets votes from citizens to come to Parliament and tell the truth, then it's not just him that's being asked, it's those citizens who sent him. This Council of Ministers for our term of office, the High Representative has not declared a single law. This council of ministers passed all the laws based on its own capacities, using technical assistance from the European Commission, OHR, when it comes to introducing European standards into our legislation. Well.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24036	Please don't interrupt, you'll all get it if you want an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24037	The problem of Parliament and this council of ministers was precisely the key consensus in the Council of Ministers. So Mr. Gligorić is not the truth that 50% of the law that this council of ministers passed has been declared by the High Representative. It's a practice obviously of the Council of Ministers where you sat. And also, I didn't know at all that you were talking to Bjuk, but I guess by the logic of things, if you're talking about us having a secret conversation with someone, that it was that or somewhere you could read in some books to do it, or to experience it yourself. So I see I've got a good guess. The same goes for the laws declared by the High Representative, even though whatever you talked to Bjuik, I don't think it was wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24038	Thank you very much. We're going to a debate. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, go ahead. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself. I won't limit you, but here's a great deal of interest and I'm asking you to create conditions for everyone who speaks. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24039	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I think the Prime Minister had some really good parts in his presentation. I think the best part about him is he said he'd be smarter off if he didn't say anything, but the man chose to die another way. What's there? 44 The same correctness is even right about this for the High Representative. The high representative, the only law he imposed was the Council of Ministers Act by which they formed. Yes, it is. And then the truth, it took nine months, how often it would take for something to be born out of this love that this Parliament actually confirms this law by which it is dried that they exist, the way they exist. But, okay. It's a fact that's irrelevant today. Just somewhere when a new council of ministers was appointed under the law imposed by the High Representative, Parliament had the honour and pleasure to see the new prime minister and, at that time, asked the new prime minister to support him and to reach the conclusion that Bosnia and Herzegovina would be a member of the EU in 2009. There's a man waving his head, he doesn't remember us voting on his proposal. You didn't. Well, you're not on an exposé, but right after. Of course, after four months. All right. When he saw the things standing, he concluded that it was real in 2009 and it was even good that he first made an assessment to see where he came from, what are the real circumstances and then asked us to vote that we would join the EU in 2009. To my question why in 2009 because you told Lagumdžija that we would enter 2010. Okay, we can do this faster. And it's okay. The fact is that the outgoing previous Council of Ministers in which I sat is designed to join the EU by 2010. We even asked for Bosnia and Herzegovina to run for a non-permanent member of the Security Council in 2010. Today it is evident that we are three years after that promise to enter the EU by 2009 at best 6 years away from it than we were 3 years ago. So we were able to move backwards. It is a time when, to remind you, Serbia-Montenegro applied for membership in the Council of Europe that was behind us. There is no need to be a spectacularly large scientist and to conclude that Serbia-Montenegro is not a paradigm of a successful transition country. But they were able to pass us over in these three years, to enter the Council of Europe and be blocked to join the EU because of pieces one, as we are one blocked by pieces that we did not deliver, we one, those one. And we have the SIPU, we have the OSU, we have all these intelligence, we have the courts, everything, they're made on an institution's paper, but the pieces one can't move. It is therefore evident that when it comes to this greatest praise that the President of the Council of Ministers has that the European map is something to be proud of is not very proud of. So I think of Mr. Gligorić as you do, I totally agree with everyone. Believe it or not. This is a disaster, this is a council of ministers. I mean, it's absolutely not a dispute that they're a disaster. But we as serious people need to see what to do now and what to change things for the better. What do we do not today but what to do tomorrow? What to do tomorrow. I am as you have heard that according to Sarajevo, there is a settlement between Mr. Terzić and me, I have heard that there is a settlement between you and Mr. Terzić. I've heard a lot of things around town. But that's what people talk about, talking about barbershops, right. I've heard that you're in agreement with Mr. Terzić to attack him to turn him into some sort of protector here, as in Republika Srpska, attacking him, and he's fighting what he wants to make the Republic of Serbia a state. And now he's like, he's now like what he's fighting for, and you don't like him. I mean, come on, please. That's all funny. He's got nothing on him. I don't know what he's fighting for, but why he claims the fight isn't working. It's just these processes go their way. I've heard that you're in agreement with him to create a block here that becomes Srbin want to replace him and now he's a hero because whoever becomes Srbin wants to replace him. Which Srbin? Mladen Ivanić. Look here, they don't have quorum men. There's a story about him. There's no quorum here. They even came, almost to say the best part of the Council of Ministers came here. Here's Doco laughing at what I'm saying. And probably. I won't, I'll skip it, but Kebo and Radovanović are certainly the best part of this council of ministers, if two ministers, with concrete results, without drama, without tragedy, without some big spectacle. 45 And people come here, and now they listen, and we wipe their ears, and there are no ears that need to be washed. He won't be able to get past it. It's hypocritical. It is hypocritical that the PDP party insists that the Council of Ministers be replaced and that their Prime Minister behaves like that Aleksić of his on-flight teeth won't let go. Which doesn't just come out, that he didn't come out. Now this is where Jelena's gonna be against and they're amnesty. No way. The PDP has been part of a failed government for 3.5 years, end, point. Picked him for me, didn't pick him. Whom it is, what hypocrisy it is. The ones in front of me are missing some. Where's their party president, the one who's currently president, who's responding to that? Where is he? The man is an absolute paradigm of an incompetent minister. And right now those who are, I don't know, here's what my colleague said, he's going to vote now, when he saw Hemfriza, he's going to vote as the EU for change to stay in the chair. Yeah, I'm surprised. So what are you going to do, which is going to the BiH Party in general in this government, which is sitting in this government. I don't know why you didn't send them away, Mr. Terzić. Your council of ministers came to Parliament 15 days ago with a proposal to establish constitutional reforms, so capital policy fact. If it wasn't that the sister-in-law came out after that and I said no, we managed to bring down the amendments, we did it, then he should have gone out and said, I don't want to sit on this council of ministers who do something like that. No! No! Hesaće know who his people are to vote for Adnan to stay, because who's going to fight against the folk of the RS. Don't be ridiculous. I think so. Who? It's a story for little kids. It won't work. It's hypocritical, it's not right. It's not right that we're all paying for internal problems together in the ruling party and one and the other. The SDS is who told some ministers to come out, the ones who won't. Now you will be against it, so this is not your council of ministers. It won't work. Finish the job. I'm not talking about HDZ. I'd go a long way. So, I really think, we have a few of us ready to talk about a few things. Why should this council of ministers be replaced? Why is it incompetent? Why? VAT, I think we've said everything. We've said it all, for nothing, who in a hot bed is turning away from a man. Whatever you say to him, there's no way. Corridor Vc, I mean, this is really a joke to brag about having a draw. Whoever's Gligorić didn't have a line, they pulled the line. I mean, never mind. It absolutely doesn't matter. There's not how many conferences we've had here, defilovalo, how many headlines you've had in your favorite daily paper where you go out in your natural size, so a little bit. How you're gonna start tomorrow. Well, it was, in November, that this is where Corridor Vc will reach the High if it doesn't rain. Unfortunately, it's raining these days. Apparently, people still make it there. It's raining. But you pulled the line. That's enough reason to leave. Take it, you've been driving us with this VAT information for two months. The law of confiscation of robbed property. What didn't support the Council of Ministers? Look out, yesterday, why didn't you replace Mladen Ivanić for yesterday's UN scandal. You know what the scandal was yesterday at the UN, yesterday. Do you know? They don't know. Great. In the UN, Bosnia and Herzegovina is running for a member of a forum, the first body to be in the UN to assist countries in post-conflict situations. We killed ourselves because we're just a post-conflict country. We're there from the region was supposed to be a candidate was Croatia and we. Croatia beats us 120 to 60 votes. Two-one took us. Our foreign minister didn't even make sure to call Vuk Draškovć to say hi a painful vote for us, I guess we're closer to you than Croatia. So Serbia-Montenegro voted for Croatia. Imagine absurd for a postconflict situation. Well, that's a shame. It's a scandal. Not one of our ambassadors has provided that in a country where it is to get support from its host country for this unfortunate candidacy that has been under way for more than half a year. Why don't you change Ivanic for that? You have my support, now come out and vote to replace it. Safet 46 Halilović, take him out with a chair, if he won't without it. You have support, no problem at all. But finish the job you started. You can have a coup like this. Be careful when that spy of yours comes and this is it. You didn't do anything. That's why you were supposed to fly away. Because of that intelligence report that you want to keep secret again, not to be public, because you have disabling consciously the conclusions of this House because these people serve you for what you don't need to be served. If you're interested, I can tell you about it. I'd love to. I'm afraid you won't be pleased. So that's enough reason for you to come, to leave. That's all there is to it. But the question is, what tomorrow? The experience we're talking about. We'll offer a few concrete solutions. We are ready to support the new council of ministers. We're ready to support, so the SDP is ready not to participate in anyone, to give you a minority council of ministers, please take a look at the Council of Ministers that's supposed to finish this off of this, finish this. You want us to give you support to change some? There's no problem with that either. You want us to take it from us? That's fine. He can do anything. Any active move can. We can't just take down today, so who's in the technical term? Says the man today again I have no intention of being in a technical mandate. We don't have a place for you to be. That's the law. The other thing is you can then declare yourself sick. You can do it. And you don't need a shift for that. So there's no problem. But don't get us into a situation and talk about a technical mandate, it's a story for little kids. What a technicality. Well, you've been in technical terms for 2.5 years. And now what? Who's to say I don't trust you and you who's in a new term? No matter what sick new term. Well, you know, when you filed your work report. Do you remember? Do you remember when you, anyone from the Council of Ministers, filed a report on the work? Do you know that you are bound by the Council of Ministers Act? Do you know that you are required by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, Article 120. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, since we are in Parliament? If you're an unknown member of the Council of Ministers Act, I can tell you. So you're supposed to be here at least once a year to file a report. Have you ever given it to us? You're not. In other words, since you were supposed to submit that report to us about 2.5 years ago, and you haven't submitted it to us, you've been practically human since then in the technical term. You don't have ours. And it's no new situation that we now would like you to be who we want to be, and we won't. So nothing new. And you won't get us into that story. Gentlemen of the SDA, HDZ, SDS whatever SDA, HDZ, SDS what is PDP SNSD, pardon not SNSD I apologize to this PDP and Party for BiH, so as five of you have formed, this is yours, you cannot wash your hands of them at all. This is your man here. Your ass. There isn't. There's nothing. I mean, there's nothing you can do and the missing ones are yours. And you're just gonna have to deal with it, if you want to let me have who's in my technical mandate now, so they don't have to be responsible, so they go on a campaign like they don't have anything to do with Adnan. The Mladen would have nothing to do with herself. Safet has nothing to do with himself. He's the minister in the technical mandate. The second thing is that he thinks the worst of it. It can't be like that. You won't drag us into that story. So, Mr. Terzić, you have the full support to do whatever you want to do to finish this job. No problem at all. You want a new mandate. Here you go. We're not going to participate, we're not going to let everyone in the government know anything. Nothing. Zero points, you don't. If you're going to say we're incompetent, go ahead. Here we go. Give us the green light we'll form it in 24 hours. Give Bianca support to run the country for four months. That's fine. If you are, if you're not, if you don't know anything else. But you won't push us into this story that you are the protector, the sacrificial lamb of the Bosniaks, and who is the Serbs, and the wrestlings sit on the gelendiras and wait for the breeding. 47 That's not gonna work. That movie won't get us into it. You must bear the responsibility to do your job to the end. Why don't you, Mr. Gligorić, think you're in the ground of some spectacular one. Oh, you're not. But you look like you did. You look like you did. It's like you made a deal. They say the experience of the Waimar Republic is quite educational, bloody educational. It was there because of the experience of the Waimar Republic, which brought Hitler later, in the Constitution also made in laws similar to the Council of Ministers of the category of constantingvol.....or constructive vote of mistrust. If you're going to tear down the government, you have to come out with a decision that's new, because then the government was rolling on the street. We've been rolling for 2.5 years, now four more months if we were officially rolling it. You can't say I'm taking down this government and then we depend on whether or not the president is going to declare himself sick, because he's not going to be in the technical term. You can't be this guy, IGligorić not gonna be responsible, I'm not gonna dry up their troubles. That's what this is about. I'm not going to take responsibility after this when we replace them who's going to be doing the same thing they've done so far, and that's nothing. Only then are we responsible for not forming a new government. No way. Take this all the way, and I repeat, whatever you need, support to replace every minister, choose who, you have ours. Be careful what it's called. It'll be called a minority government since October. You have our support, we will give you votes to vote on someone and who you say he needs in technical order to bring this thing to an end, these four months. No problem. There's the minister. We don't have anything with him. It's yours. Nothing spectacular is going to happen. Certainly your laws are where they are. We will manifest ourselves from law to law. So every one, I suggest, I'm not going to start dating a member of our 120th Rules of Procedure who talks about voting and other initiatives, you know that if the initiative fails to replace you, then there are other initiatives. So we're ready to offer you conclusions that will go towards you leaving, to appoint a new prime minister. Now. And I repeat to you, we vote for the new government you ruling majority. To remove someone from the minister to bring in a new one to finish the job. There's nothing we're gonna do with him, there's a new one for you to finish the job, there's nothing we're gonna do with him, there you are. You'll Dobićete our vote on your responsibility because this is the country's interest. But to have you amnested through this, that movie won't be able to play. This is all misery, and it's cleaning up, I mean, the situation we've come into, and a lot of people have been wondering how we're going to get out of this whole thing. How can we explain to people that we are, that we are not going to bring you down, and we think the worst of you. We're not going to take you down because you're like a trap standing here and we have to, before some wheel is installed, we're not going to crash the car if we get away from the clock because you are. So, give some mechanism, what you'll do for you. You U.S.A., you're a big shot, so this poison would collapse. It's okay. What do we do? There, but I won't just crash, I won't take it out. I'm not going to be the accomplice that I knocked down and me then, I'm responsible for you standing there for four years. So we're not gonna let that happen. Gentlemen of the SDA, SDS, I invite the HDZ Presidency, I invite you, Mr. Chairman, to conduct a conversation with the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to ask them what they think of this. I'm calling. It's an initiative. Do like the College, you from the ruling coalition, do four interviews with the presidency, see what you'll do. What to do. You have, I repeat again for the public, our support for anything. But don't let this country get into chaos. To change new ones, to do it on your own, then to make something happen. In October you will have to answer who, these five parties, you will in October, this is your council of ministers, this is your mirror, however you vote today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24040	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24041	Thank you very much. It's nice that Mr. Lagumdžija took the presidency's suggestion to be brief in his explanation. So I'm not going to say so much, of course, because I think with a lot less words you can say a lot more than we heard in the previous discussion. Of course, everyone will present their arguments today, so those who are against it will be the arguments of those for. So Mr. Lagumdžija made an argument about why they are, which is why they will be for those who are in favour. And he'll be against it for the same reason. So from the exact same motive. Of course I understand this story, Mr. Lagumdžija, too, and this is a good opportunity to bring out some not only political attitudes, but also election and pre-election, etc. And it's not bad to use this microphone for that kind of thing. I'll be a lot shorter than my predecessor. And I must say, first of all, I will state the reasons why the SDS Club will support this initiative. Our differences are not the same as the reasons for the initiative's proposal. So we don't think any council of ministers, or any government should fall because it hasn't passed the Sports Act. We think that's the least reason for the government to fall, or some council from the ministers. And we don't think that many of the reasons there are strong enough reasons for that proposal. Of course there are those who are strong enough. I don't think I should argue with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, especially since I'm close to Mr Lagumdžija's opinion and he took away one thought that some things in his defense, better than the chairman said, because he's awakened in me now a desire to speak differently than I thought. He's saying it's hard for Republika Srpska because she lost her customs. I thought we didn't lose customs, so I thought I was part of Bosnia and Herzegovina going into one process we should all get the Directorate for indirect taxation and this job, not lose. I read a similar story in the Daily Avaz. Unfortunately, I have to say where the chairman said for sure that one government that has disbursed a smaller BiH entity by many segments from the intelligence service of indirect taxation and the customs administration cannot get the sympathy of those sitting in the Republika Srpska Parliament, is a story that should drive me now to talk about what Mr Lagumdžija was talking about, so that I am giving the legitimacy to the chairman in some fight here against MPs from Republika Srpska. I don't want that. So I don't want to give that legitimacy to Mr. Chairman. I believe these statements, that these statements do not speak of me as Mr. Chairman of those who will support this initiative to speak best of them, not of the chairman, or of the Council of Ministers. I don't think this is talking about me, even though I'm going to support it. But it gives me enough reason, gives me enough to back up. And that's why some of the findings don't stand in this and, but I don't want to produce any discussions, especially not debates of the type of controversy between me and the chairman, or any MP here. And that's why I won't discuss it that way. Of course I don't agree that the request for the establishment of the Sarajevo pandemic Commission is for Srebrenica. I don't know if Mr. Tokača who said that in Dnevni Avaz has co-ordination with Mr. Chairman, but I disagree. I think it should be in the function of something else. At least I think so, and don't let anyone interpret my intention to vote for it. I guess I can explain why I was for that commission. But okay, let's not open these individual questions right now. What my club and I find important is that you vote to resolve this council of ministers is the legitimacy of this council of ministers. For me, this Council of Ministers meeting no longer has legitimacy. How there's no legitimacy. Two Serbian people's ministers resigned. One is under suspicion of whether, or not resigning, one is definitely 49 resignations. Both resignations were accepted, both men due to the Council of Ministers' Law are sitting in the Council of Ministers. I guess I don't need to talk about the legitimacy of their work. I don't need to tell you what the chairman did to make it not so. Whether he suggested someone else, if he tried or didn't find most of the other suggestions, I don't know. I didn't hear that, I'm talking about legitimacy. Two other Serbian-led ministers are no longer in favour of the party that nominated them. That's what we said in public. One of them hasn't been around long, because of their work. I asked them here to resign publicly. The other has no legitimacy for political reasons, not for poor work. I appreciate Mr. Radovanović's work very much. But Mr. Radovanović, is the minister proposed by the SDS. We want to, so we've been looking, so our political stance has been quite clear. We are the opposition gentlemen, whether we want to accept it or not. We do not want to be in power at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the opposition in Republika Srpska. We don't want anyone to have funds on one side, and on the other hand, he's pushing someone else into reforms. So whoever's ready to take over the funds on one side, take responsibility for the reform on the other side. And we don't mind making a new majority to make a new council of ministers. We'll think about whether or not we'll support it without participation, of course, without participation. But we'll think about it. So please don't pin this on us, so this kind of thing. Here, make a new majority, propose new people, and there's no problem. I believe that SDS personnel have also done their job with great honor and responsibility. But we have a political stance, we have asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to resolve the ministers and deputy ministers who are from the SDS, or which the SDS has proposed. To resolve, he didn't resolve them. What are we supposed to do? We don't even know what's going on with our discharge request. So when we did, we asked them to be resolved by the chairman. Give people a new majority, cut these people apart or you give them the legitimacy to work. You don't have to resolve it, you give the legitimacy to work. We don't have that legitimacy anymore. And that's quite clear. In this meeting of the Council of Ministers, a minister who has no one's legitimacy anymore sits. Mr. Halilović doesn't have anyone's legitimacy. I suppose it would be logical that the chairman replaced Mr. Halilović because of his disagreement, his party with the concept of the Council of Ministers when it comes to constitutional changes. So if he can't do it by law, I guess Mr. Halilović should have given up on the Council of Ministers for moral reasons. I deliberately say the word give up the Council of Ministers because some people are harder to change, so let's at least give up. He doesn't have that moral side, if he had he'd be sitting here today. And he has no legitimacy for me, either as a minister. I've listed five people I consider to have no legitimacy. I guess that's enough for this political party that I belong to and this club to such a Council of Ministers to vote for mistrust. Or the vote for mistrust, of course, I don't think we're going to vote for mistrust, because it's obvious that the political timetable, not only the party, but the reasons today, is such that this council of ministers will remain in operation. I'm asking you, I was really trying to, yes, yes, no one in particular is being irritated and I'm not calling for a counter-discussion except for my colleagues from the party for Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I didn't touch them, but I didn't say the party on purpose, personally, but I was telling the minister who, for moral reasons, I don't think it should be there. Thank you very much. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24042	Thank you. The word is Mr. Elmir Jahić. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll start by saying that the SDA Club won't support this initiative where we support the Council of Ministers. However, I am obliged to give a few arguments and a few notes. I fully understand that very often in politics it is sometimes difficult to objectify some political phenomena, processes etc. and that it is difficult to specify, in particular to give some particular reasons. Also, there have been speeches here that we have long gone into a pre-election campaign and that it has started, that it is a de facto continuation, and it has already begun to complete this process and to discuss constitutional reforms that lasts at least half a year and the fact is that this election campaign is likely to be one of the signs of the dirtiest election campaigns, if not the dirtiest election campaign and here and there is also talk and when setting the agenda. And it really is going whether and it seems to me that a measure of a normal and political dialogue, debates, etc. has been crossed for a long time. And I think in that context, we should put a little ball down on the ground. I also understand certain political parties that want to be one way or another to show whether they are present in the public, and may not have some other way to be present, so they want to attract public attention in every way possible, but here in a few months, elections are already being made and elections should be made possible and voter support provided. And I understand all these efforts. However, in some extremely serious matters, and the appointment, the replacement of the executive authority is, in my opinion, a first-class political event. It takes a lot more arguments and facts than the opposition having to bite something or someone for something, that it should, that it shouldn't get caught up in its own face, that someone claims or doesn't claim it's God's day, or I don't know what else, that the noise is the one that stopped someone from making Corridor Vc, etc. I really think we should talk seriously and objectify as many things as possible, especially when it comes to whether this is a matter of trust to the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary majority that supported this council of ministers gave it on the basis of an exposé which, as you know, was first submitted to you by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and at the time, I don't know when it was three and a few years ago, and on that basis, certain objectives that this government said, or the Council of Ministers, we will do so and you will give us support. The parliamentary majority in the period thus supported on the basis of these some global objectives. Later, this parliament, it seems to me when Mr Špirić was chairman, we were able to provide a full consensus, so all the political parties of parliament where we said what is really our primary goal and what we expect all levels of government, and especially whether at the state level. First of all, the Council of Ministers, but also the Presidency of Normal, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both of which we have committed ourselves home, so this is the basic direction, so Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to European, Euro-Atlantic integration and overcoming all obstacles and meeting all the conditions ahead of us on that path. 51 So, on that basis, I think we should value the success and failure of the Council of Ministers, not whether it's based on what they're biting and on what they say is getting into their face here. In addition to what the talks were about, which was spoken of by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so I am obliged to say that what we asked the Council of Ministers for, therefore, the basic objectives, the basic tasks we set, the Council of Ministers and the task respected it to a greater or lesser extent. In fact, 16 conditions of the feasibility study for the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations have been met. So these are all those obligations and they, the legal solutions that we have adopted, but on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, so the Council of Ministers has proposed these prerequisites, and we have adopted the fact that, I don't know now whether, but surely, one, two, three laws, I don't know everything imposed, 170, 180 laws so adopted this parliament on the proposal of this council of ministers. And what's important, so here's what I haven't heard today that we've really achieved, in my opinion a historic success, although here we don't need to take any of those big words often, but we're still starting to negotiate whether it's about stabilization and accession. In this way we respected our basic goal, i.e. the Council of Ministers respected, which is the basic objective. So we went into that procedure and we went into that procedure. What I would particularly like to single out a few very important effects that are important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic adjustment. Last year in 2005, therefore for the first time a fiscal surplus was achieved, a growth rate of over 5% in the last year, which is consistent with the development of the strategy, etc. And here we had yesterday, yesterday we had a statement saying it was the Agency, international... Modis decided to raise Bosnia and Herzegovina's credit rating with v3 with positive changes to b2. It is said that progress in the area of economic policy is stressed, including resolving the compensation issue for claims based on frozen old foreign exchange savings and that the value added tax has been successfully introduced and that this credit rating country represents an assessment of the possibility and validity of the country's government to fully service its debt in time and that this credit rating is very important for potential foreign investors, etc. etc. I mean, it's very important that things are objective. Especially if it's one question, when it comes to this kind of thing, and I think when these things are being analysed, it's obvious, so I'm free to say that this initiative actually has a very pronounced sign of whether politicisation is within the pre-election campaign, etc. etc. What I'm not saying is that some of the reasons that are mentioned here, so I don't agree personally whether or not the club is, etc., surely this is about the presence of members of the Council of Ministers. I'm sure I should have done a lot more on Corridor Vc, certainly there are other activities, but when we look at it globally, when we underline whether this was about these lines, when we draw that line, it's obvious that this positive effect is very important to me. So, I repeat once again, the SDA will not support the initiative, and we believe, we are giving support to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24044	I thank Mr Elmir Jahić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24045	Here I am at the beginning to say our determination, so when it comes to the Party for BiH MPs' Club, we will also not support the initiative we are discussing. And in any case, we think it's good to talk about the work of all state authorities, of course including the Council of Ministers. We have indeed had a number of opportunities, and even an obligation to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we didn't do it and that's why I think it's not bad and it's even educational in some way to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers today, but it would be good to discuss it in a concrete and objective way. Unfortunately, the debate so far is not exactly going in that direction, but rather going in the direction of some kind of a way to say political outsmarting. We will not support this initiative for two or three reasons. Very simple. So first, we don't believe the motives of the initiative that they are aimed at looking for a better solution. So the initiative, in our opinion, is not motivated by concerns about the state of the country, the work of the Council of Ministers and by offering some better variations. So that's one of the reasons. The time in which it is run and realized is also not the best and makes it difficult to find a better solution. Of course, the alternative wasn't offered at all. And finally some circumstances that we don't talk about here at all. It'd be nice to think about that for a while. So this personal composition of the Council of Ministers and any political relations that we have very difficult to do, is very difficult to function. Let me remind you when the Council of Ministers was being appointed, etc. It was not established on the basis of a generally accepted project, a programme in this parliament, so we did not have a parliamentary majority gathered around the programme, around the general objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. etc., not just this one, but the previous one. And we're going to have a very difficult time in the future. Of course we've been gathered around the program and the previous, but we haven't had a full consensus on the general objectives when it comes to this country. So, it's something that made it difficult for the Council of Ministers to work, so it doesn't occur to me to be anyone's lawyer, but surely the way the Council of Ministers was established, and our political practice, where we have the responsibility of the Council of Ministers towards entities, according to political parties, and not according to the Council of Ministers' programme, has in some way made it difficult for the work of this Council of Ministers. Furthermore, there was talk here about the role of the High Representative, etc. 48 laws were imposed by the High Representative, but the real question is why? Whether or not because of this parliament, whether or not because of political relations and understanding of these laws. So we can't delegate this problem to the Council of Ministers alone, but we also have to discuss it here and face why it had to impose 48 laws. I wouldn't argue, and I wouldn't flinch on different files and different files to say poison arrows, so this way I'll end up putting out our attitude and repeating that we won't support the initiative that's being debated here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24046	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Mr. Milorad Živković. Let Mr. Šefik Džaferović prepare himself. Here you go. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24047	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the SNSD gave its opinion on the Council of Ministers back in 2003 by submitting as the first initiative to vote on the mistrust of that minister, that council of ministers, and here I heard here on several occasions about a programme that was brought together by those who then supported that council of ministers, about some kind of exposé. I have everything I have, and if you have anything else, it is an accessible exhibition in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Terzić, in 23.12.2002, and that is all we had to discuss on one single paper. That's when Mr. Špirić said if this is an exposé, is this some kind of government programme, the ruling majority that is now seeking to change this council of ministers then said it was enough. There are 10 points and each time it begins with the word responsibility. And I've talked about this twice so far when this initiative was on the agenda and I've talked about a sentence in which Mr. Terzić says he's convinced that in the existing constitutional legal structure of the state, the Council of Ministers can impose itself as a cohesion factor in the interests of citizens, it's quite absurd and that now we just see that we are and then we see that it won't be possible, nor will it be implemented. Apparently, now those who are asking for it, or are behind the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers, I guess now they've got a brain that's not possible to do with this council of ministers. Probably before the end of the term of office as well as for us as Parliament, and this Council of Ministers should obviously be given some evaluations of this work and if it literally and literally assesses the work of the Council of Ministers, we can do so individually and grouply. We can evaluate each ministry individually, let's say from the foreign ministry where absolutely undefined foreign policy is for the simple reason that we had a strange one situation for the Council of Ministers, or the Foreign Ministry to propose a programme and foreign policy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Presidency adopts it, and probably Parliament should implement it. And that's when we said that policy was wrong. The document was never adopted, but was returned to the Presidency and after three years we never saw that document again in the House of Representatives. Not to mention the DKP network that is politically painted, where there are many more political appointed ambassadors than professionals, and that such a DKP network cannot respond to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I am not talking about dissonant tones that have been applied to the internal and internal policies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in many centres across Europe and the world. I'm not going to say about the visa regime that has left citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and today 50 million KM stands where they are standing daily in front of the ranks to get visas that this ministry has done nothing and two words describe their work and their disorganization. The traffic ministry where the problem and corruption and crime were related to CEMT licenses. That's what we were talking about here. Even SIPA has launched its activity in determining the culprits in connection with the granting of CEMT permits. About what it was about koridor Vc and how much time we've wasted here to end up in a position to finally get a good proposal here on the adoption of the Corridor Vc Act. Let's say the Traffic Act promised to us in front of the same ministry that before the application of that law, we'd get all those regulations, 20 or more regulations, and we didn't get any regulations. And that was a condition for us to vote for the Traffic Act to get those regulations. We didn't get a single rule, and the beginning of next month comes to 54 powers of the Traffic Act. It's a shame and I think you should think about it. Not to mention the Information Act where the minister came to the meetings and directly challenged the principle, the main principle of the Information Act and practically adjudicated what they agreed on at the Council of Ministers. So in two words, crime and corruption. The Ministry of Justice, let us only remember the Law on the Abuse of Property and the freezing of property to Hague indictees and their families, as was the case in law and not to speak of the Foreign Savings Act, etc. It means internality and intricacies. On the Ministry of Civil Affairs, there are two words that can be defined more precisely in one word. Chaos. The ministry has absolute mutual non-cooperation in the ministry itself. They've never held a college in three years. The minister doesn't know what the deputy is doing, nor does the deputy know what the minister is doing. When you want to go upstairs to get information on any topic, you can't get proper information. So the ministry's disorder, not to say that certain positions in the ministry itself have not been received for two years by people to work in positions. Not to mention the nationalities, that the Ministry of Civil Affairs has, on several occasions, passed the law, or formed a committee to address this problem. It means I don't mention the other ministries. It would take a lot of us even if we were to give grades safely so the Ministry would get insufficiently, and it's enough at school that you have one insufficient to go to juvie, and there's a lot of them here, so they have to repeat the year, that is, in this case, to fall. However, when we talk about evaluation, we are not just talking about assessing the Council of Ministers. There is no chairman here, so I will not mention his mistakes in all of that which was practically responsible for the work of all th ministries, and personally he was also responsible for the possibility of unblocking the Law of Post Office, because he did not appoint a seat and that law stands blocked for a year. He is directly responsible for the decision to form a Commission on Police Reform, where he violated an agreement on police restructuring that predicted that consensus can make decisions and is the main culprit for the problems we have today in connection with police reform. Parliament can also not get a passing grade in all of this. I said here at first that we would support the initiative, but we disagreed with those who submitted the initiative, because some others should have submitted the initiative. Other people here should have said they were wrong, that they were deceived and that they were initiating the initiative, and that would have kept them from hiding for four months before the election behind the council of ministers. We from the SNSD never hide behind our staff, nor do we want to let them down. We have the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, we stand by him and we will never be ashamed of any procedure he does. We're not that kind of people, and that's not how we're gonna work. And we will support the initiative, but we disagree with the way it was submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24048	Thank you very much. They're told by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Let Mr. Špirić prepare, then Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24049	Dear colleagues and colleagues, although I believe that this initiative has no basis, I cannot say that it is not serious, because here it has sparked a parliamentary debate and as soon as the Rules of Procedure can come into parliamentary procedure, then it is serious. I will, however, try to get 55 on how to assess the reasons set out in this initiative, also to refer to some discussions when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. to vote of confidence, i.e. do not trust the current composition and the assembly of the Council of Ministers. If I'd fallen from Mars to this gym this morning and listened to this discussion, there'd be a lot of things I wouldn't understand, and I'd have wondered after a lot of discussions, so is it really like that in those discussions? But thank Bog I haven't fallen from Mars since September 9, '57. I live in Bosnia and Herzegovina every day, so I'm here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially as a mature man, I've been awake since '90. I think I know the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and many, and I think that the many discussions I have heard so far, and even certain elements of the contents of the initiative do not respect the fact of what Bosnia and Herzegovina has been going through since the 1990s and here and in what situation Bosnia and Herzegovina is in today. I call on you that when we judge the work of the state government we speak objectively, considering the circumstances and conditions in which the government works. I'm not going to say that this government has no mistakes, it can't be claimed because every single one of them, if there's nothing like that that saying who's doing this and making mistakes, but it's absolutely certain that it's not the same condition, at least it wasn't caused by the government's guilt as it is today identified in individual discussions. And I ask that these facts, if we want to be objective, serious and responsible politicians to identify ourselves and that in this context we are discussing the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, after that, we vote when this initiative is at stake. They say the numbers speak best, the data speaks best. I have been actively participating in the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement for four years in the entity parliament and in the cantonal parliament since '96. by 2000 and here is the sixth in the state parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and believe me that I remember the situation well in the Federal Parliament when the agenda was highlighted as a question of vital national interest. I remember very well the work of the State Parliament in the '98 session. – In 2000, when it was known to sit for two days in this House all day long, do not establish the agenda for these or those reasons, obstruction of course and go home, not do anything. In the last term, in 2000-2002, this parliament passed 60 laws, and 20 laws previously imposed by the High Representative. These laws have, of course, been proposed by the Council of Ministers at the time, and we must tie Parliament up when we talk about the Council of Ministers. So far, 200 laws have been passed within 3.5 years of the functioning of this call for Parliament, and 98% of these laws have been adopted on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. __________(?) And who made them? There's an answer to that, too. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague that while I'm speaking here, he'll have a later chance to look back, if he wants to have a discussion, of course. I have an answer, of course, to that question. Those 60 laws, which were passed in 2000-2002, were mostly written in the OHR, passed through the Council of Ministers, came to parliament, many fell, and then declared by the High Representative. Today in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have a situation and it is a matter of process. I want to talk about the process here. When we can't say that the laws are the full authorial work of the Council of Ministers. We cannot, because 56 should be fair and say that representatives of the international community are involved. However, these are the laws that were written in the Council of Ministers with the help of the international community, which came to Parliament, first passed through the Council of Ministers, came to Parliament and adopted in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I want us to come to the stage, and that is what I think is the next stage when the laws will be written in the Council of Ministers, without the assistance of the international community and adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. But I think it's quite enough to say that, in this meeting, we are both the Council of Ministers and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina at a more quality stage compared to, say, the previous term of office, and that's logical. It's a question of evolution. And I think it's perfectly normal. I only mention this because I'm saying that when assessing the state government's work, we can't discuss when we evaluate the government's work insisting on maximum standards and ignore the conditions. I think we need to be objective and then talk – respect the situation in which the state government operates, so when it comes to the legitimacy that has been talked about, see if the trend in moving things is positive, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and give an assessment of whether the state government has done everything it could under the given circumstances to make this trend even more positive. It's a space for our debate. Not the space why Bosnia and Herzegovina today has no highway of 320 km Corridor Vc built. Please, on that road, the highway was granted the right of citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an official decision of the BiH presidency in 2003. Discussions were held until then both internationally and within Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it didn't exist, it didn't exist, write this down, Mr. Lagumdžija, feel free to replicate, there was no political decision to build in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first doctrine to be taken was the decision of the first half Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, I do not know the exact date of 2003. And not to speak any further. It was unthinkable to discuss back several years in Bosnia and Herzegovina that Bosnia and Herzegovina has an orderly defence system in line with NATO standards, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has an intelligence community conditioned with European standards, it was inconceivable to talk about a single VAT for the entire BiH state, a single economic space, that three customs administrations unite in one customs administration, of course both Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian, Mr. Novaković, is not present here, as is Bosnia and Herzegovina and all other citizens. Please nice, these are the realities today. And it's fair when we talk about the work of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24051	May I have your attention, please, we'll follow the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24052	It is fair that when we talk about the work of the Council of Ministers in the past three and a half years, we should also point out these facts. Over the past three and a half years, all the macro-economic indicators in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been improving. There are no macro-economic indicators, starting with growth in industrial production, increasing foreign investment, etc. that he was in worse shape than he was in early 2003. And not even the number of employees, not even the number of employees. I know the exact number of employees at the end of 2002 and in early 2003, and I know that number today. There is, there is a statistical deterioration in the number of employees from the beginning of last year compared to the beginning of this year for 2,000 employees, but the trend in these few months has been such that the growth of the number of employees is present again. Not big, but 57 is a trend in increasing the number of employees. And I think we should talk about these things when we talk about both, of course, and these things when we talk about government work. Please, the motion for an initiative says the Council of Ministers did not create conditions for implementing the Public Procurement Act. Maybe we didn't do everything they had to do when it came to implementing the Public Procurement Act, but it's fair to say that we didn't know what this law was until a year ago, a year and a half ago, and that law proposed this government. Well, let's not assume that if there are problems, here's what we can talk about, we can forget about the fact that this government has proposed this law and that it has been adopted by this Parliament. And you can't hear that in this debate today. Says the Council of Ministers has an irresponsible relationship with the Law on Higher Education. Please nicely, we've got one law here in parliament from the Council of Ministers. He did not go through the guilt of the Council of Ministers, did not fall by the Council of Ministers, but fell because there was no political will here in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the Constitutional Court said what it said and we have no law for these reasons. And it is forgotten that we have passed the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education on the proposal of this Council of Ministers. It didn't propose the Restitution Act. Well, you know that law has been discussed since '96. years at the entity level and at the state level. At the state level, the law could not be discussed at all until two or three years ago. Unfortunately, we don't have that law. But let us not blame this on the Council of Ministers when there is no political agreement between us here in Parliament when it comes to the content of this law, starting from the year since the restitution is due to be made to the very content and form and manner of restitution. It says – very poor labour effects are manageable for indirect taxation. I do not know on what grounds it is claimed that the poor effects of the work of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, especially after the VAT was introduced because until we received the bill and adopted it in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, had a tra customs administration and had three tax administrations. It's called VAT law here. But no one can argue, the problems with the VAT law, but no one can dispute the fact that the VAT law has come to Bosnia and Herzegovina for the entire proposal of this government and was adopted here in Parliament. It is up to us to see, we will see at the next session what are the effects and to assess what measures we need to take, but no one can dispute the fact that the VAT Act has been adopted and that the system has successfully started. There are also problems, of course, starting with the price of medicines, costs, or this VAT of publishers, etc., but these are the things we should discuss, too. Therefore, I believe that when we talk about the work of the Council of Ministers, we should also respect these facts as well as a number of other facts, circumstances in which the Council of Ministers worked and because of this, and I don't think today this initiative should get the green light. It should be brought down here in Parliament and should allow this council of ministers to continue working until the end of this term. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24053	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Špirić, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24054	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I won't be long. I have a few things that are actually incorrect. I am pleased that Mr Belkić corrected himself when 58 found that the Council of Ministers had passed anyway, unlike this current one was gathered around the programme. It took a few months in 2000 to gather around the program. Was that worth it? I don't know, but he existed. However, what Mr. Džaferović was talking about. I really have no intention here, here's the relationship, be careful, Mr. Marinović, Mr. Kumalić. I mean, look at the relationship. We're talking about them, I guess you told them too quickly that you'd support them, that you couldn't, that you'd keep them. You should have kept them in suspense. Maybe the rest of you would like to hear a few. As for the law, Mr. Džaferović, you know very well about a prime minister who's been missing for a long time that the law has come to him, and that they've served him, the best example you know better than I do a hundred times about the famous philosophical societies that have been freed from VAT, instead of the humanitarian organization of folk cuisines, because they've mistranslated. But it is not true that this presidency in 2003 made a decision on Corridor Vc and that it was the first time that a decision was made. Here let Mrs. Hadžiahmetović correct me if I'm wrong. Mr. Ante Domazet and Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and I sat in the Council of Ministers who launched system activities that were the result of something that we had done, but which was a decision from before, which is a decision on the Pan European Corridors. And to be very clear, not only have we made a decision, but here you have made a decision, but the government of Alija Behmen in a year has made 12 kilometers of highways, the only one that exists so far in circulation. That's what you've made the decision, we've made a mile. A little, not enough, but done. And it's an incorrect story that Adnan Terzić invented the highway. I don't know what else a man won't make up. Well, he invented the highway, man. And in the end, it's not true that you invented VAT and a unique economic space. That's not true. There have been relevant decisions made long before, and even in that council of ministers in which Martin Raguž chaired for a short time. Even Spaso Tuševljak, who we forgot he was alive talking about some of those things. So it's not what Adnan Terzić invented or this council of ministers. As for macroeconomic indicators, I can't help you here. Take official statistics and see the number of unemployed at the start of the term of Adnan Terzić and the number of unemployed now. You pair those two numbers and you'll see a number that hurts your head. If you're interested...entered with 508,039 unemployed, and two years ago they entered with 468,204 unemployed, according to BiH statistics. And in the end, don't bring it to us as Parliament that it's our fault for what the Council of Ministers did. There is nowhere in Parliament's world where the ruling coalition accuses Parliament of destroying some of their laws. The point is, and I am going back to Beriz's story that without a programme of mutually certified you entered the entire adventure 3.5 years ago, and that is why you can get into a situation where the Council of Ministers can pass a law, put it before Parliament, and then its own parliamentary majority will not adopt it. And that can't be the fault of a parliamentary minority where I can see how some of them came suddenly.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24055	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, just one sentence at a time. I really have no intention of leading the controversy with you, Mr. Lagumdžija, but here's a few 59 things I have to try to make right. When I talked about how to write, propose and adopt laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when I compared the period 2000, 2002 and 2003 to here, I was talking about one process and it is absolutely certain that and when it comes to the fact that we are in a more quality phase of the process today. I want this process to continue and we want to be in a position for the state government to write laws without the help of the international community and for us to adopt them here in Parliament. But you must admit that at this stage, quality was made compared to 2000-2002. You look at the BiH Presidency's little decision so you will certainly be among those decisions, if anything at least in the official messenger or presidency, I don't know if it's been published, I've had that decision with me. Find her from the first half of 2003 when it comes to making a decision by the head of state regarding Corridor Vc. It is true that the government of Mr. Alija Behmen has completed the activity of building these 12 km from Josianica to Podlugov, but only one tape. The other tape is finished by this government and watch what happens then. Then the rest of the way, I mean this is just for the truth I'm saying, the rest of the road, not one metre away, not a project, not an idea, not any other documentation needed for that trip. The government of Ahmet Hadžipašić therefore had to design and execute the expropriation, so to resolve property legal relations and engage in the construction of the road to the High and, of course, plan a further road to Kaknja. And by the way, there's still money left to build these 12 kilometers. And when you speak, it is true that you did it, but as I said in these circumstances. So I'm telling the whole truth. I didn't say Adnan Terzić invented VAT or any of us here. There was, of course, a debate about VAT before that. There were even discussions on two VATs in Bosnia and Herzegovina in two entities and such discussions were. But Mr Lagumdžija is the fact that during this government and this Parliament's assembly, a VAT law has been passed and it is being implemented. That can't be challenged. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24057	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Zorić's replica of your exposure, so that if we don't repeat Mr. Lagumdžija. And it's not. Then the replica of Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Lagudmžij, and then Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24058	I don't know what the Presidency, Mr Džaferović, adopted in January 2003, if the Presidency adopted a decision in January 2003 to make the Corridor Vc, then it came out of its jurisdiction. Because the Presidency in January 2003, to remind you in Mostar, so Mirko Šarović was president of the presidency signed a contract on the construction of hydroenergy potentials and sold electricity to a German firm in January 2003, because he immediately needed success and completely came out of his mandate, because the presidency has the same power as it does with sending a plot around the country. Thus, the Council of Ministers' measurement decisions and the relevant activities done on the subject became earlier. When did the activity on Corridor Vc begin? You are right to begin the government of Ethem Bičakčić at the beginning of its mandate and at the end of its term. At first, they laid a cornerstone, and at the end of the term, they watered it. And it's true that the government of Alija Behmen who did it came after that. It is also true that in the last four years, communist roads have mostly been ragging across this country. Here you have in town, this government of 60 cantonals is doing nothing but moping socialist roads across the country. She didn't make a single meter of new ones. And there's no need for you and I to be convinced of that for one simple reason why, I'm afraid the more you defend this council of ministers, the more we think we're going to change our attitude about him, because it seems like the only way to turn this thing off together is to have no light and to have any better than this. I really think it's better to have one like this than none, because this doesn't seem like the way you defend it. So let us not make a sign of equality between this and none, whether or not it will be. Stop defending him, it's better for them. Only if you're the three of you in the U.S.A. who's just trying to take him down can't say that. So you want to piss us off so we can knock them down, but there's no fingerprints on you. Well, that's a different story, then. But that's where we'll get the real story. What, here's the president of the Council of Ministers, better than the one who left. We'll get it right away if we have to. We think he'd be a better solution, but he wouldn't be ours, he'd be yours again. It's not Marinović's, it's not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24059	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24060	Here, I agree even with Mr. Lagumdžija and my replica will be in that direction to Mr. Džaferović. Lagumdžija said it must not be blamed for those who did not support the laws, which the Council of Ministers has proposed. I fully agree. So any document should be proposed by the majority, and it can't be the fault of those who voted against, but those who misproposed. So that's where I totally agree. Mr. Džaferović said the Council of Ministers is not wrong not to pass the Law on Higher Education. So who's to blame if they've proposed a law that's harmful to the vital national interest of a nation? Who's to blame, but the Council of Ministers. And if they suggested it. If they didn't suggest then let them tell them who gave it to them to propose, or who cheated on them. The situation is such that the zakon was in parliamentary procedure, that both, or passed the House of Representatives, came to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court said the law was harmful to the vital national interest of a nation. And I think the Council of Ministers is wrong here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24061	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Špirić. Let Mr. Sead Avdić prepare, then Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24062	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, distinguished ministers, representatives of public information funds, I thought today when we discuss such an important topic that we will try to preserve at least the dignity of this House and as the debate moves on the Council of Ministers, I am getting closer to the idea to preserve our own honor and face so that it is best to just disband ourselves. That would be the only answer for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have come into a situation today to discuss whether the Srbin will be against the Council of Ministers, and the Bošnjak do, and we do not know how the Hrvat will vote. This council is neither Bosniak nor 61 Serbian, nor Croatian, but also Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian. And that is the biggest and most tragic knowledge since the four-year term of this council of ministers. But where's the problem? I myself launched an initiative two years ago to this council of ministers knowing that there is no way to change it, that there is no political will, because, unfortunately, I understand, I am not expressing the House of Representatives of this House, but rather the Council of Ministers. It's woven by a gene of political will. We don't have one chairman of the Council of Ministers to vote for him. We've got four. So that's why such a concept was accepted so that everyone would bathe in the mud and make fun of their own country. Mladen Ivanić also feels the chairman of the Council on behalf of Srbin. And Halilović as president of the BiH Party. He doesn't think he's less valuable than the vice president of the U.S.A. So the Council of Ministers are party presidents, and that's why today's debate is sterile. So none of you can say to your boss: hello, sir, this is against the interests of the citizens who choose me. That's why I'm sad today to see on the basis of which arguments this council of ministers is getting through. Not because I was, maybe I was the closest thing to a abstention to not participating in all of this, but I can't have a man for myself. So all those who try to defend the Council of Ministers have no argument. Here today I thank Minister Keb for keeping him sitting here all the time and is the most common representative of the Council of Ministers who sits. Where is Ivanic, where is Dokić, where is Halilović? Where are the other ministers? Well, people are laughing. Maybe they're watching this debate on TV today. They think it's funny. Adnan drinks coffee and says I can't listen to you. Why would he listen to us? Why would a man listen to this debate? This makes him so simple, let's take one item of the agenda off. But those who want to defend, I want to tell you that the man himself told you that you were wrong. And now I'm going to give you a list of reasons, so I don't want to know if they're serious, they're not serious, someone appreciates them one way or the other. Are they at the right time, or are they at the right time? That's what Dr. Wells was talking about, I think. You're a Lagumdžija. He says, if there's no law on sports, you're right, and if someone thinks that's why the Council of Ministers should be replaced, there's no mistake. Isn't sports law important? How many incidents do we have today, national insults, broken heads, ugly messages that do not allow this unfortunate country to create an environment that is desirable for every citizen of it. But it is not true, this Council of Ministers has obstructed the adoption of the Law on Sports, because I have offered it on behalf of the Olympic Committee and the Professional Alliance, so I do not understand it to this House. And what happened? Then the parliamentary majority sends to the council the majority for the destruction of that law. And we're probably going to get some kind of political where it's going to be instead of creating an atmosphere that we together represent this country's message that the differences are like this, or they're like that. What else did I do today, I must say, as a man offended by the address of the Council of Ministers chairman. That's what the public needs to know. That's never a man who wants to lead this country, and if he thinks he can't say. Take a stenogram and take a look. As I run the Council of Ministers, a Commission on Sarajevo will not be formed. What does that mean? Yesterday I read when the president of the Helsinki Committee says -- there are data, so documents for killed 500 Srbin, and I don't know how many Bošnjak who were not politically loyal. And I don't know Hrvat nobody even mentions, unfortunately. What do you call it when you kill 500 people? Mass crime. And don't please me, I'm not, and I don't want to make a parallel about any crime. But if the Council of Ministers, the chairman sends a message that if he leads, it won't be. What kind of message is that to the citizens? What is this message to those Srbin who are gathering also asking for bones to bury the people who were killed in this town for what reasons? Is that not enough reason for you to support the chairman, at least to tell him – hello sir, we want to go to the future. And there's no question that we should go anywhere where the commission commits a crime, if we can't do one. 62 And it is not true that the commission for Sarajevo's pandan to the commission when it comes to Srebrenica. He can't get away with it. There's another reason. The third reason the Council works is because Ivanic resigned, I don't know Dokić, the SDS asked that their resignations be withdrawn, so there are no more. What's done with it? Adnan Terzić was created instead of the secretary of the submarine. He can send them for cigarettes. What is their strength if their party asks them to withdraw and Adnan doesn't? What is the strength of Mladen Ivanić, who has been dragging Bosnia and Herzegovina's public for 2.5 years, and neither male nor female nor resigned, nor resigned? And Branko Dokić. I understand the chairman, too, but he has to admit that he's not steering this ship, that this is called mud rolling, that the inert brings results. Well, I remember my uncle after he told me that we didn't win, there wouldn't be electricity in the village. Maybe she'd come sooner, who knows? That's what they say, if we hadn't died, the world would have died. That's not true. The evolutionary processes are everywhere. But the question here is, can we do better, can we move faster, can we do it together at all? The third thing, the fourth, fifth thing he's telling us is the chairman here to all of you and he says -- those who bring this country to have a government in the technical mandate are against the country because we're sending a bad message to the European Commission. Well, the European Commission here has an ambassador, and he knows us in his soul. They know this is the technical government since her election, that this isn't the government. Well, they're diplomats, they understand this language we're talking about. Listen, like if it's in a technical mandate, then we'll send a worse message. So the European Commission wants an owl party as strong as possible for the government as possible, a more capable government. But that's what we want, that's what the citizens want. Ask them if they're satisfied? And then when someone's talking about economic parameters, I'm unfortunately doing it, and I don't want to write professional work, because I don't have anything to do with it. All economic sizes are global, macroeconomic fiction. This council of ministers is responsible because there is no census, and each economic size is measured by the number of living heads in this country. We don't have that either. Shall we say we don't because these haven't done it before? We can't justify the mistakes of this council of ministers because others are not. So who started the Corridor, who's gonna finish it, etc. What I'm trying to say, no matter how this debate goes, what the relationship of the plea will be. My position, my political party's position has been expressed by the president of the club, but I will ask for any conclusion, opinion on the vote, or not a single conclusion. We, as Parliament, must make the government responsible for the exercise of power, this other one, any one who comes. We need to make responsible ministries, and it cannot happen that they are making noises only if the minister falls because he is a Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat. Ministers must pay the price for being incompetent and therefore we must carry out an individual evaluation of the work of the Council of Ministers, not only a global, global report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the four-year term, and my conclusion is that a parliamentary commission should be formed, implemented in activities in the House of Representatives on what the ministries for these four years have done, which would make up 10 MPs of the House of Representatives, 4 of the parties making up the parliamentary majority, 4 of the opposition and two independent MPs, and that we tell the public what the ministries are, in our view, at least received a passing assessment. So that's my conclusion, no matter who stays, whether it's a positive or negative statement. And I beg you, therefore, to chair today, what Zlatko said would be the best part of his story when he said he wanted to hear something. Today he said 63 words like that to him, at least as far as I'm concerned, while I'm sitting here with a delegate. He hurt me like a man, so I wouldn't keep talking. He had to be the one to make the decisions of this parliament. What it means to say – you in Parliament had to make sure of what conclusions you would draw. What about this indirect oiling directorate, pardon taxation? So you know what a man who works there says to me, if this land resembles the Order, then it may not have been. And it's a prominent official in that directorate. That directorate is about to be discussed, probably in front of us. So what does it mean not to make a decision, not the conclusion of this House? The decision of this home, which had both parliamentary and most of the total and entity on the replacement of the chairman's board of directors for indirect taxation of Đoli Dikson. On the side, maybe a man, a good man, but he worked outside the law, as well as the chairman. There is no debate with Parliament's decision, but it is held. But there's a way to spend it. So if the names are High Representative, then the appointment is confirmed in order to resolve it legally. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why would they do that? Why should someone respect us if we don't respect ourselves? I'm asking you, I'm never going to start any initiative again when it comes to the Council of Ministers after this presentation. It doesn't deserve attention, but I'm asking you to keep part of the dignity towards the citizens, at least who's going to go to the elections, and if we can't change the Council of Ministers, we can just disband ourselves, it's much better and much better for the citizens of this country than to bathe together in the mud. Thank you very much. And I'm asking for my conclusion to be spoken of regardless of this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24063	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. All I'm asking is for the conclusion to be delivered in writing. I think the conclusion is constructive. Do you still want a replica, Mr. Zorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24064	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24065	Thank you very much for your constructive contribution, Mr. Zorić. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić, and let Mr. Križanović be prepared, and then Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24066	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you, Mr. Chairman, honored guests, I'd like to extend where my colleague really stopped. A highly responsible argument is a reasoned debate from the largest number of participants and is rarely one item of the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in this tone led and resulted in assessments that are in the highest number, the meaning of relevant and true. But let's first try one thesis on what is the responsibility of the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives for this situation in the Council of Ministers. One, first, let's look at ourselves and then try to give grades to the Council of Ministers sometime. Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament lost, conditioned a battle for equal status, but at the beginning of its mandate. In fact, in the Council of Ministers, you know well that three political party presidents and three political party vice-presidents and three vice-presidents of 64 political parties figure today. So the power center isn't in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, people. The power center is really in the Council of Ministers. And this home is simply at the beginning of its mandate when it did not seek a programme and plan and the simple operational action of the parliamentary majority that was set up, immediately put into an uninvited position. Which means Parliament has not so far been conditionally awake according to what the proposer has offered, but simply here are now three, four months before the election of people we have a simple request for a review, i.e. a vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers with such accumulated problems, which are characterized by both the Council of Ministers and the whole of the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, this is not the council of ministers only of the SDA, Party for BiH, SDS, PDP etc. This is the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Parliament chose him, too. Now you can't just do it just like that. It's the HDZ Council of Ministers. No, no, I'm sorry. You can listen to that, Mr. Gligorić, so we can simply set the objective state of things where we are. Which means the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in this context, contaminate it with individual parties how, yes, it can not, the parliamentary majority can and everything else, but objectively the problem. So I repeat once again, the centre of power is in the Council of Ministers, three political parties and three vice-presidents absolutely give weight to political decisions on the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers make fundamental political decisions, instead of Parliament doing so. As counterpart Kunić says – where is our Law on Corridor Vc? The public hearing voted him paroled, sitting here all day. That's absolutely necessary. Corridor Vc cannot be implemented in this country without law which will define all, simple procedures and ways of bringing and managing this project etc. etc. Which means that there are a number of examples that simply indicate that the centre of power in the Council of Ministers and that simply this Parliament was not awake in the sense that it is responsible for asking the Council of Ministers to account for each month of each session and that it does not tolerate the simple absence of the Council of Ministers from these sessions. To cancel the session if there is no Council of Ministers, to remove the agenda if there is no Registrar, etc. etc. So here's to earn part of Parliament's responsibility and I'll come back to the end. With most of these findings, I agree with the aspect of the Council of Ministers. What I am particularly concerned about is the absolute threat to his legality and legitimacy. The Council of Ministers has made dozens of decisions in one system that is absolutely controversial. Two resignations, two ministers lost the party's support they proposed, the transmuted parliamentary majority, the new parliamentary majority does not have. The Council of Ministers is like a ship without helms and simply has absolutely no, I would say the political force of the parliamentary majority to which it can rest in its work and action. And in this context, it worked so that one must be pointed out, and this is a very sophisticated strategy, I would say fruitful co-operation with the international community and to the greatest extent thanks to the international community and co-operation with the international community, we have some results from the aspect of the law, decisions and everything else that the Council of Ministers has proposed to the BiH Parliament. But, let's say, the Law on Higher Education, on Public TV Service, constitutional amendments, etc., all substantiated the reasons that the Council of Ministers only offered to resign in this Parliament and only to reconsider the credibility and legitimacy of that body. You can't play it easy. If you get a negative Parliament's decision from the aspect of strategic laws, then simply a really minimum of moral responsibility, political responsibility is at least to try to check your credibility still in that parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 65 And in the end, what is it, what is the voice of mistrust to the Council of Ministers? What it means is what it says and what it means to vote for the Council of Ministers' mistrust. Here, I'll only take one torn fragment. Yesterday, the PDP Party had a press conference. Watch out for you, simple controversy. And the party says it will not vote for not trusting the Council of Ministers, and in that council of ministers is the party's chairman and vice president. Listen to those ironys. Well, it's really out of your mind. In one parliament, a party holds a press conference and says it will vote against its president and vice president. And that irony won't go away, Mrs. Đurković. You know, it's a little harder, I mean, changing thesis and masks have to go down, yeah, yeah, yeah, those masks have to go down. You just can't play with this country like that, you can't play with it because it's ironic, not to say the hard words really. Two MPs will vote against their president and vice president. Please, one, come on one. I'm sorry, there's someone else in the House of Peoples. I'm sorry. So just this little fragment tore out of the mosaics of what's going on before the vote on mistrust by the Council of Ministers warns me that it's worth considering when it's a vote of no confidence for the Council of Ministers. That's one finding. Second, second. To vote for mistrust by the Council of Ministers. What is the answer to this House? Is it compatible with the state of chaos that's about to occur, the system's decomposition? Yeah, yeah. Slowly, slowly, the decomposition of my colleague Gligorić's system. Do you have an alternative proposal to propose to the minority government of Bosnia and Herzegovina that you have a parliamentary majority that you create and that you also propose to the government, or the Council of Ministers, etc. etc. Please. I'm sorry. Don't apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24067	Please finish Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24068	Let me just finish this one. So I'm not into a state of uncontrollable chaos. So far we've had a situation, I'd say controlled chaos with the help of an international community that's been held. And that's better than the state of uncontrollable chaos. The state of total system failure and we're going into a pre-election campaign, and then God knows where we're going so hard to say. So, the Council of Ministers should, Mr. Chairman, have stated in his presentation the findings. The Council of Ministers doesn't function as one team, does it, Mr. Chairman? There's no style or harmony in that council. There's division by national, ethnic and any other basis, political, right. So it's not one team. Two ministers are mortgaged and resigned. Which means they had to explain it to this Parliament here. As Belgrade says, there is no better minister than Foreign Minister Ivanić. And you must be concerned, Mr. Chairman. They say it's public. So people can't just put themselves before the temptation of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, before temptation. It doesn't matter to the Council of Ministers. Comrade Špirić is here. Let's talk about principled basics. We will not add successes and failures. Now four months before the election, we can also make this commission, as Špirić says, 10 people, so give the Council of Ministers an assessment, gather, subtract, all simply give a real objective assessment of the functioning of the executive government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm speaking again and I'm warning you we shouldn't go into a state of uncontrollable chaos without an alternative proposal and drag this country into a state of decomposition. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24069	Thank you very much. All I'm asking is for you to be informed, we have five more reported. You're gonna take such a long break. Just to let you know, we've got more logs. How many breaks are you gonna take and who's looking for her, please ask for a word? Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24070	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Mixed Club. Thank you. Half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24071	It's exactly 3 o'clock now. We'll continue at half past four, please. I'm taking a break. I will now read you the order of those who applied for the debate. [[PAUZA]] Please respect that we still have a large agenda. So the first is Mr. Jozo Križanović, so Mr. Hazim Felić, then Mr. Izet Hadžić, then Mr. Sipović, then Mr. Petar Kunić, then Mr. Filip Andrić. I don't have an application here, Mrs. Đurković. Here's the Secretary of the House following. I'll put you in order. What I can do. I've always, I've never really seen you. This is the order I have. There's a Secretary of the House who has the same order in front of him. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24072	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24073	There's a conclusion at home that you can't make a phone call during the session. Please respect him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24074	That's right. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to say that the debate on trust, or mistrust, to the Council of Ministers, is for me a very serious conversation and a serious consideration that requires a lot of arguments. In all countries, when talking about the government's trust, or not trusting the government, it usually happens for two reasons. The first reason why there is objectively dissatisfaction with the government's work and the second is when it comes to giving a disturbance in the parliamentary majority that supports the government, or does not support it. I think we both got the conditions here and the argument that I was talking about, of course a lot of colleagues here talked about it, I'm not going to repeat it, but I want to stress this that as an argument we can't use the number of laws you know that have been passed-- 67 You should first see the quality of that, these laws and of course how these laws are implemented. But let's be honest, and that's not enough. We need to see how our country is, how our lives are in the country. What is the political situation, security, economic, social, etc. A colleague of Lagumdžija was talking about some of the macroeconomic economics that indicate that we have negative trends here. This is the third time we've discussed the government's trust in this house, the Council of Ministers. So you see why it's the third time. Well, because we never had a chance to discuss government work, government work reports for the past year, or the government's next year's programme. Never. And then, of course, I have to say, to provoke this one topic that is far more serious than what can be constructively suggested by the government in the context of this debate. I'd say this, too. To be a little self-critical. The Council of Ministers is a picture of this House. I will not repeat that the Council of Ministers is drawn up at the political will of the parliamentary majority, so by the way, we have had the opportunity here to see that this parliamentary majority has little to agree on, except that when it comes to the defence of the Council of Ministers to finally defend it. We have indicated this entire term of office to the shortcomings of the Council of Ministers and what we have not been satisfied with. First of all, there is one boast that I would say the Council of Ministers' ignoring relationship with this Parliament. This is seen whether through parliamentary issues, through the execution of the conclusions and decisions of this Parliament, it has been seen by the legal initiatives that fellow MPs have launched here to adopt certain laws or to regulate certain important areas, that I am not talking about restitution and sport, about culture of any segment of life, about taking away illegally acquired property, about VAT, etc. It is not a problem that this is not supported, but that the Council of Ministers has never been manifested according to the legal initiative of any of this House. And now, we come at a time of four months before the election when bills are to be taken down, some of the parliamentary majority colleagues see that good concession to wash off the Council of Ministers and say, and we are against them, we were not good. And when it was an opportunity to talk seriously about, to evaluate, to point out certain problems, a year ago, two years ago, all of our stories were similar, but the effect was different. And today we have a situation that 10 colleagues and colleagues who made the parlamentary majority today will be against their ministers in this government. I don't think it's about good intentions, but it's just about getting out of these opportunities that we're in and washing our hands from what was done this 3.5 year. That's why I think it would be good to know what we're going to do about this before we come forward, specifically about the government's trustlessness. That we have a scenario, provided the Council of Ministers doesn't have confidence, whether we have an alternative to forming a new Council of Ministers, with which programme, or that when we've put up with it all the time we can do these three, four months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24075	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word is Mr. Hazim Felić. Have Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24076	Thank you, Chairman, indeed esteeming the time and the long-term debate, I will try to be very brief and I will look at not just one point in the reasoning of the motion to vote for a non-confidential vote by the Council of Ministers, which is point 5, and that I am still saying in the introduction that I really expected serious arguments from the motionor on 68 such a serious topic. However, that argument was as far below expectations. I will only Kazaću that the reform of the fiscal sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina is personally one of the most successful reforms implemented so far during this parliamentary assembly's term and this council of ministers, and it is not only my personal assessment, but also the representatives of international organisations present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and who have worked with us on this process. I would only remind you that by forming a Directorate for indirect taxation of the established presumption of strengthening the single economic space in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we know that the Administration has united all customs and tax administrations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is indeed the opposite of what it says in the explanation is a narrow space for all those who have dealt with tax evasion and other illicit activities. This meets one of the important conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, European integration, above all. The results of the collection of indirect taxes by the Indirect Taxation Authority really speak for themselves. The inflow based on indirect taxes in 2005 is 14% higher than in earlier years, and the inflow from indirect taxes in the first quarter of 2006 is even 42% higher than in the same period last year. And what is very important and important to me is that although the young institution is very well, it has successfully prepared the introduction of VAT and the results of the introduction of VAT are as they are, and these are taxes that have been collected by 41% higher than in the last period. That's true, I think I'm speaking on point 5 of the argument does not stand in the Council of Ministers' impeachment allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24077	I thank Mr. Felić. The word is Mr. Izet Hadžić. Let Mr. Sipović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24078	Well, first of all, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed present, I will try to be brief, and I would like first of all to congratulate the Council of Ministers for the results it has achieved in this ambience of government. So the point is I clearly congratulate you on the results in the ambience that it has. The ambience is responsible for representatives of political parties, parties and Parliament who should have formed a more stable political plane for an even better result, that I have to say certain opportunities for better results, it has, but the ambience did not allow it, and for that reason I want to congratulate on the results. Of course, I would like at least from today's debate to be a message that the future parliament will be clearly defined by the parliamentary majority and allow the executive authority to deliver more effective and better results. Probably when I first received material for this item of the agenda we consider myself a member of the SDA if these are all serious, if these are all charges for the work of the executive and party to which I belong, then there will be no problems in the election results. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24079	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Sipović. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24080	So after this morning's situation when I suggested to this Parliament that a conclusion be made on the continuation of constitutional reforms, so when I experienced such a fiasco as if I didn't know what I suggested, this one says that I was really thinking about whether there was a point in reporting on this agenda point and that I was discussing in future points. However, as it is a very serious item of the agenda, the vote of trust or not trust the government, or the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I decided to say some things as a man because I feel like I'm saying some of the things that the voters gave me to make the public like it or not. Also, when I speak well, he does not like me, so whoever does not put up with me does not know what I am doing, he does not put up with me. Here's what I'm going to do, in civilised countries, when there's a procedure by the opposition, if we read the political literature of parliamentary democracy, it's a very serious problem. So the opposition that initiates the initiative must have a credibility, mean have clear visions, assess what it gets, whether it has proposals for a new council of ministers and a new government. You know what, to tell you the truth, my ears were coming off, my ears were coming off when you were always talking to the government. First, the Council of Ministers, within the framework of the law and the Constitution, has no co-ordination with the government. It is a gathering of ministers and the chairman who is the first among ministers. And in this context, reality needs to be watched as this executive organ works. The government would have had us adopt constitutional changes. But gentlemen, I liked Mr. President Špirić when you said -- when we lost our historic role, when the world gave us the task of going into Euro-Atlantic integration, both Europe and America and all, that this parliament would show political maturity in front of citizens and the state of progress, you showed yours, and in my view, the moral dignity of every MP in this Parliament would be to disband this parliament. Because you have indeed brought disastrous consequences to the entire parliament, we have not voted in favour of the disastrous consequences for the citizens and that state. But since you didn't, then this has become my third-rate question. And now you know me here what, I'm a little confused. I'm not confused that I'm not that intelligent, but who's in the ground because of petty own interests, not civic interests. Not interested in the citizens and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Everyone here is hypocritical, and I'm looking here, you think I'm the most naive thing I'm saying. There's a saying, you know, now I'm gonna tell you something. A man is born with character. There is a saying in the Signs by the road, and he says, "Is it worth it to be like that?" You will be ashes. If he says at least he'll know I was once a fire, and behind you, there'll be some loose ends behind. In that context, and I appreciate some relationships, and I followed, and I didn't want to say anything to anyone. When discussing such an important issue of vote of confidence, not the government's trust, analysis, there should also be a broad analysis of the proposals for the launched initiative, analysts, synthetics to draw conclusions. In this context, I was not impressed by the individuals of my colleagues and those who defended the Government, or the Council of Ministers, that I was given an argument. Chuck, I've been bringing people into confusion in what context they're talking about. Here, let's say, I don't immediately confuse you, I've experienced a very unpleasant experience from my president of the SDA Club this morning, and I won't take his bill, but I will vote with my conscience, and I will give my support to this council of ministers, not because of Elvir Jahić and my colleagues, who have treated me very incorrectly, but I am a credible man and remember Mr. from the Council of Ministers, I've always given well-meaning support to the Council of Ministers or Governments. Your Council of Ministers chairman is the biggest mistake, but someone mentioned it in the context in which you work. You have 70 in the Government of Man in the Council of Ministers, the minister who was the organiser of the constitutional reform blockade. By all moral standards, he was supposed to resign. You know who he is. He'll recognize himself. His MPs know. You have in the government.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24081	Please allow the representative to complete the hearing. The latest warning to lawmakers that prevents Mr. Sipović's debate. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24082	You know what, in the end, you'll see that this public will be convinced of his dignity that he has a credible one. I'm not a member of the party. Some MPs were given a mandate, and then before the end of the term, they moved on to other parties, so they made us a halabuku here. They recompose the situation at the Council of Ministers, so the ministers who received the parliamentary majority were left without political support. I've always been criticised for what I am, whether I'm a disciplined member of the party. I'm a credible Mr. Jahiću member of the SDA Party. I represent the interests of the citizens of the BiH state and don't always check me and see if I need someone disciplined. I don't need a guardian. Please. I don't need a guardian. I've shown my qualities in all fields. Furthermore, for an analysis of what the government has done in programme reforms, we cannot forget the assistance of the international community here. Is this the council of ministers and this parliament, which you do not say, without the help of the international community, the OHR and all others would not achieve certain results. That's where the grade was supposed to be. Furthermore, I advocate, if Bogda, if it is the next parliament, that the Prime Minister be truly prime minister, that those insubordination ministers who do not work for him, and Mr Terzić, you do not have the authority to do so as chairman, you know, the grains that your ministers do not do to you. It was a farce for me to listen here when they speak here says the government, and here stands two men always the same faces that come. You know, Mr. Terzić, which your ministers have been very good at and have worked hard in this state to do what they do. Furthermore, in view of Mr Avdić, that he knows the public and the means of information, don't act like a big Democrats. It's all about who's in the ground for personal reasons and how you're acting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24083	Please stick to the subject, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24084	Oh, you're corrupt, you're detached from your parent party, you're bought for money.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24085	Please, Mr. Sipović, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24086	Well, Mr. Avdić, you're in conflict with yourself with your conscience. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24087	I'd like a representative of Sipović to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24088	It's not my fault that you're in conflict, that you've been slapping the international community, America and Europe. I'm credible. It's my fault to say that, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24089	So please, do you want me to interrupt the session? I have no other solution. So I warn the MPs to create an ambience for you, but you also help, do not call them directly, but stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24090	Because, Mr. Chairman, this House has responsibility for and dissatisfaction or the work of the Government. Therefore, it cannot be in certain contexts. We knew which ministers were in the technical mandate. What was Parliament doing? Nothing. Does he have the authority? Is there a responsibility? There is, Mr. Terzić, I will never forgive you for not making these ministers sit here and respect this home. That I resent and resent to you that your resolute minister, Minister of Justice Kovač, does not answer seven of my parliamentary questions, or many of the things that are being done, which... and then you do, this is what I like about the assessment of the resolution ministries. Not everyone is responsible is not all bad. The Council of Ministers of Civil Affairs is the disastrous worst in the Council of Ministers. It didn't do anything. That's what the whole public knows. The Council of Human Rights and Refugees with this Minister Keba, at least he's done as many things as he could and that he's in that segment. If I wanted to do analysis, then it would be a five-hour debate, but I don't want to, I just want to tell the synthetics and remember the gentlemen of your grinning and smiles on my discussion, that's what it says about character. There are honest people here, who I am, I am engrossed that I have met some honest people in this House, and I have been totally disappointed in some. If there's any degree of hypocrisy I can go to, to which degree of hypocrisy and to me as colleagues will now address you, it's easy for me to tell you. As far as I know, you're an emissary professional here. As far as I know, I'm a volunteer here, and I'm doing my job, and I'm coming here to do my jobs, and as far as I know, Mr. Lagumdžija, and you're laughing at me. I work honestly and honestly. If you knew, and I never insulted you or this, and this is the defense of my dignity, and I would recommend that you no longer provoke and insult me in such a rude way, and you do not worry about my status in the U.S.A. party. My party is a parliamentary party, a democratic party, and we can make certain views, but I know what I should do and I am a permanent party member, and I do not blame anyone for what I will be, as I respect all opposition MPs, who make smart proposals, I begin to support. I'm starting to lose credibility. So, I can't support something if someone's smart enough to say it from an opposition or another block. It's the asphyxiation of democracy. It's Parliament's sterileness, it's all passed on to the government, it's a lot of things done. I felt for the public to say this, because this morning I wanted to launch the initiative to go through European processes, to enter constitutional changes, as I was delighted with the performances of colleagues from the RS and representatives in constitutional changes, credible. We differ in some political options, but when it comes to the strategic interests of the state of the Constitution and this, there should be... let it be an example for you of the Republic of Croatia when you go to the European Union. There are opposition and position and neutral and liberals and they are all together, and they have their own different options, and I have no understanding in the nearer environment or further. And you can't deliver me, I'm saying this because I'm saying this emotionally because citizens and this public deserve to get the right information, and that's why it's pragmatic, really, who needs this halabuca more than four months. Why didn't you ask for a government shift a long time ago and it's totally counterproductive to what you started without clear arguments, on the other hand, whether there's a way to make a new government. So I'm very pragmatic, no matter what certain criticisms may indicate, but in global matters, I know my own clear goal, my own interest. Let us support this Council of Ministers on Euro-Atlantic roads by the end of the elections. If you gentlemen don't have the moral dignity to disintegrate, then you have no right to even discuss the government's shift, if that's what we're going to talk about, although I have criticism and these things in the context, but that would cause it, it would require a broader evaluation. And, fifthly, I do, there are projects that are very well done. You need to be credible, you need to commend something that's good. There's something that needs to be criticized that isn't. Those who deny everything, so they're destructive. Those who overly praise and they're not good and they're suckers, political profits. Therefore, this Parliament and this segment, when this important thing is discussed, obviously I tell you, I am the least experienced of you. In my opinion, this serious thing with such insecureness has been made in this home. Half the MPs 70 percent were whispering and talking, not even listening to the discussions of the other colleagues, and in this context I end up, I didn't want to read some things, because I would support some of the findings made by Mr. Chairman of the Council and some of my colleagues, as I would like to criticise what has not been done. But in the end, here I am, Mr. Avdić, civilize yourself sick. Therefore, gentlemen, I would be interested in Mr. Avdić or some of my colleagues, who I irritate by the very appearance, which I am not interested in at all. I know what quality people are, moral, smart, and I appreciate and respect them. Those who don't respect me, that's their problem. To finish, I could write about this segment wide-ranging and do it very analytically based, but since I can't do more than five minutes – ten wins, I think it would be counterproductive. I wanted to extract segments, especially for representatives of the international community and for journalists to get to know the public how anyone behaves. Therefore, the moment when there is one political responsibility for every MP who comes here and who is honest and upright and should honestly be proud to do a certain job, not to make slaughtering games disabuse me and make me some dissident, some kind of freak, something that came here. I have come to you, gentlemen, to break your hooves in which you, Mr. Avdić, have been swimming for years.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24091	I'm denying the line this time, it's my right. You can be mad at me. We've got a lot to discuss, really, you'll understand this intervention of mine. Mr. Kunić. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare, then Jelina Đurković. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24092	Thank you, Chairman, indeed, after this much discussion, there is little to be said and I will really try to cut short just to say a few sentences about this point of the agenda. I don't think the chairman understands that this debate is only about the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but it's about the Council of Ministers, not just about the chairman, but about the ministers. I think it was an unfortunate date, a very unfortunate date, that just couldn't work. I tried to remember some things when some ministers came here, some almost never came once. So, what happens in the Council of Ministers, that is, how he worked. What is the mentality of this council of ministers such that self-responsibility and irresponsibility rule. So these are the facts. So, the government of one will and irresponsibility, in the first row of ministers, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers had to somehow establish perhaps stronger authority, etc., and regarding that, of course, is the guilty parliamentary majority. So, more co-operation with the Council of Ministers had to have more coordination, etc. I'd just like to mention some of the elements that were here, but I don't think I'd agree with. I would not agree with that fact, given that I have information that this administration is very poor at work, that the staff policy that is being conducted in the Directorate for Indication Taxation is absolutely unacceptable, that it is party and that inadequate people are being received. I have information even the hairdressers work in that administration for indirect taxation. We have all the information that at the Department of Direct Taxation, people were fired without a solution, without the possibility of appeal, so we have a situation that is directly at risk of human rights etc. So, all of this will be borne by the state's ultimate withdrawal costs that they've given in an illegal manner. People didn't get solutions with arguments, etc. Thus, it is likely that the congregation will face these things in the next congregation. The questions here have been praised by a lot of procurement laws. I must say, and I will repeat that for the third time, the law on procurement is one of the sponsors of the biggest crime being committed in BiH, so the robbery is still a state property. Therefore, the law, I have proposed to this Parliament in due time, to sit down with the people of practice, and to see what are the channels that draw money from state-owned enterprises. They still go, especially if I don't talk about the percentages of some, etc., who are absolutely present, it's heard, it's said, so I wouldn't praise that section of the Council of Ministers' work and, finally, you can't praise the Council of Ministers for having passed many laws, amending and supplementing the law with one or two members, etc. The thing is whether these laws apply and whether they are quality, and the quality and application of the law is equal somewhere for mathematicians tend to zero. So, the quality of the law is very, very bad. Very bad, they are incomprehensible, many are prescribed and foreign laws that are not applicable to our stories, the logic of thinking is not the same, etc. Therefore, there really is room for criticism, there is no room for praise. I would also agree with many who spoke in critical tone, but when you look at this parliamentary majority, then it leads you to think in the context of hegel's cynicism. When Hegel was asked, when they told him, the facts were not in line with your settings, and he said the team was harder for facts. Thank you. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24093	Thank you very much, Mr. Kinić. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić. Let Jelina Đurković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24094	I thank Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I don't think there's much to say that's already been said, and I won't be able to do that either, but given that no one has spoken from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People so far, so I don't know how much you would realize that silence in your own way is a special speech, but let's keep it that way as a sign on our part, but, however, I have to talk about a few details, facts and I say I won't owe it. It has often been mentioned and questioned legitimacy after those resignations when it comes to the Council of Ministers. As for our club, or at that time the HDZ club, the legitimacy has been questioned from the very beginning for individual appointments at the Council of Ministers. We all remember very well, and the moments when the appointment of certain ministers was leaving the entire club, except for the representatives, who could, as counterpart Zorić said, put their cheeks under their backs and let's move on, but here's the thing, I'm not opening that question, it's starting to go wrong, but if we look back a little bit on the work. I'm not going to say that the Council of Ministers didn't do anything, that it didn't do good things. Here, however, we also talk about those things that are difficult to overcome in the truth. Many fellow MPs have mentioned the general relationship through this term of divorce, here from three and a half years old, a very arrogant and ignoring relationship between the Council of Ministers and this parliament, which appointed it. Which means, it did not feel like the Council of Ministers needed to account for Parliament, through Parliament to the people and citizens who chose them, but rather, it seemed to me that more ears were turned to other centres of power and decision-making, and therefore it is not surprising that the Council of Ministers' relationship, which is confirmed by the realization of the conclusions of this Parliament, which we have mentioned several times and, of course, confirmed the presence of individual representatives before the Council of Ministers, during the debate on the laws which we have proposed. As a result of this relationship, we have one discrepancy, misunderstanding, so most often it happened that the laws proposed in front of the Council of Ministers had more amendments, than I think there were articles of law in the parliamentary procedure from the Commission and to the House itself. We are also aware of the fact that often the laws ended in the Constitutional Court and were dropped in the Constitutional Court, we have an example of the Law on Higher Education, we have other laws, which are also in the Constitutional Court and fate is uncertain, so here is the question of whether this is perhaps the moment when someone from the Council of Ministers should be held accountable, and in particular the Council of Ministers for such moves. But it was the way it was. The Council of Ministers had such a relationship with this Parliament, so for the result, we often had laws that were very destructive in the truth and with inconceivable consequences for the position of individual, individual, for the completely constituent peoples, or for the position of the constituent people. In this case, we know who the other two people are, it is the Croatian people as the least numerous, so often the Croatian people could not pass through the legal solutions which the same rights are unquestionable and guaranteed, but we had a situation when we did not share ourselves on this basis, but also when it came to citizens, the concise Law on old foreign exchange savings, which was again found in the 75 Constitutional Court, precisely because of the misunderstanding and the situation in which we found ourselves with this law of old foreign savings, where, unfortunately, it was most likely ended in the Constitutional Court and where it would be difficult to defend certain provisions of that law, which are incurring the truth into fundamental human rights, and then the question is often mentioned here by the parliamentary majority, or minority. The question now arises who is the parliamentary majority and who is the minority. If I know that my club generally voted against such laws, and they passed and did not have the right to respect us for how we were this parliamentary majority who should stand, or defend the actions and work of the Council of Ministers. As a result of such relations and behaviour, not only through the Council of Ministers, but also through other state institutions, we have the result and finish that literally the HDZ Club has disappeared, which received 95% support from the Croatian people in the last parliamentary elections. Today when we talk about this situation, five months before the election, I think it's groundless, that this debate was held a year and a half ago, or two, I think it would be worth some more concrete moves. This is not how we can support this work of the Council of Ministers, but aware of the importance of the process of stabilising and joining the European Union, which it is leading, leave BiH without the Council of Ministers now and now again to deal with it for the next few months, I think it would be unwise to think that Mr Špirić's smart proposal and we will support him as a club, his proposed conclusion, so that we can once again open the story and give ourselves space, and as far as the Council of Ministers can't support him, but we won't take him down for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24095	I thank Mr. Andrić. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Replica two minutes, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24096	Well, as an MP in this House, I am constantly offended by the appearance of Mr and Zorić and Filip Andrić, and I am constantly accused by these MPs or by the Council of Ministers that we are jeopardising the civil rights of the Croatian people. Well, I wouldn't want to sit in that parliament where I would really discriminate against a nation. I'm a Bošnjak, but I respect and appreciate every nation. Please doFilić Andrić that thesis to me. I believe I am not breaking and will never break and I will fight any attitude that threatens the equality of citizens and if I am at the SDA and Bošnjak Club. Please, I'm a man first. Please don't touch me, I have sworn to honor the Constitution, the law and the equality of citizens, and I will do nothing wrong, especially knowingly or deliberately something to happen. Please, I hear it several times, that means Mr. Filip Andrić, you, as a representative when you were in HDZ, were representing the interests of the Croatian people, and now that you have stepped forward before the end of the term of office, is now not representing the HDZ, through which you have come as an MP. Give us a little civilization, a little dignity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24097	Time's up, two minis is a replica. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24098	Let me just say, the same thing appears here, this pay phone is used for political pre-election campaigns, and that's what the Party for BiH has been doing all the time. Whenever she was in power, she was in power, when the mandate ended, she was an opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24099	Please, this was a replica, Mr. Sipović, for exposure. You've got the time. Mr. Filip Andrić, reply to the replica, also business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24100	I apologize in the truth, if Mr. Sipović felt hurt by my speech. It wasn't my intention, but to be clear. I did not say that the civil rights of the Croatian people were at stake but collective, and this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court's decision on the law on higher education, and this is confirmed by a number of other facts, such as: The law on the public broadcasting system and not to quote any further, and when I spoke of civil rights, then civil rights of savings, i.e. the right to private property, or to your own money, of property. And as for my relationship with my club, I was Mr. Sipović in the election and I got the legitimacy of my election base. The truth is that I did so with the HDZ. I have remained on track, ideas and the HDZ programme, and what happened to HDZ is not my problem in the truth, and I will make the bills at my next election base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24101	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković and I have Mr. Gligorić's report and I am concluding the debate. I don't have any more reports and Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24102	It is nothing new PDP today will not, in fact, vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers because we believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in fact a symbol of the work or of the failure of the Council of Ministers and we consider it the most responsible for the impact of the highest executive body in this country. A year ago, when there was a major manipulation of foreign ministers, I also spoke of this manipulation and asked Mr. Terzić to leave alone. Today I'm only going to point to two points again to indicate that we're dealing with a major manipulator. This is the presentation of Mr. Chairman in relation to point 8 and point 10 of the initiative on the agenda today. Speaking of point 8 and the Sarajevo Commission, Mr Terzić said that Parliament was wrong, which means that both homes were wrong, which they voted for to form the commission and therefore did not understand something he later realized, and in fact it was the political will of the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think the chairman has the right to first assess whether it's something, whether it's a mistake or not. That's one thing. 77 The second thing, his next logic, Mr. Terzić had to say that then the Council of Ministers had made a mistake, because only a month after our conclusion of the Council of Ministers in February 2004, he adopted this conclusion, and here Mr. Kebo and he will confirm that his ministry had made a complete draft and offered it to the Council of Ministers, but Mr. Terzić never did, here he said today why, he never put on the agenda, and by the Law on Council of Ministers he puts the points on the agenda, he forms the agenda. So the manipulations are double. He manipulates the facts and thus shows his own self-will. So he also defused the will, the political will of Parliament and the political will of the Council of Ministers, and thus introduced the principle of self-will, and had to act as the first among the equals. It's that kind of manipulation, look at today saying, it tells us something that's not true until the end. Secondly, what it means is that the Sarajevo Commission is opening a dangerous process, and the Komisijaza will not open the process for truth and reconciliation. What does that mean? Without opening the process and coming to bitter as bitter as the truth is, we can't go forward. I think it was actually a good suggestion to go meet each other to tell everyone and to come to reconciliation. Secondly, by blocking this commission, fundamental human rights have been denied to the families of the victims. Can we do that? Can we do it and can the chairman do it? The process is open anyway. Here, I remind you of Free Bosnia, which has already started writing, and before that, the days have written. Why does it bother someone to just tell their mothers, sisters, parents, brothers, here's how they got hurt, there's a story that's over and then every place where there's been casualties, so it's got to be a turn. We have to face it and go constantly into some chain of blood revenge, I don't want it, and I don't think this Parliament understands it, too, and it doesn't want to hide or disembowel the fact that we're re-creating the conditions that we're having a bloody car happening. That's not what we want. Another thing, another kind of manipulation. A year ago, less than a year ago, I would say the manly chairman has taken advantage of the already outdated resignation and replaced the foreign minister. The next thing he had to do, name a new one. And remember what that secretary called V.D. And then the assistant minister, all the illegal things, and it remained contentious to this day. So, what did he have to do with the chairman? He had to name it under the New Minister's Council of Ministers Act and we wouldn't have had a story, but it's a matter of manipulation here and it's a matter of will. These are two reasons enough, and I have not mentioned it for the first time, for two years I have been in the media and I am directing and pointing to this kind of manipulation of Mr. Terzić, and that is enough reason for me to vote to join the vote of no confidence to Mr. Chairman, and thus to the Council of Ministers. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24103	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. You, Mr. Gligorić, had both the explanation and the initiative and the answer afterwards, I ask you to respect it, you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24104	Thank you. I didn't mean to talk for long. I would not like it to be repeated to me as at the beginning when I explained this initiative on behalf of the Club and by Mr. Džafrović 78 more than once, and later in the debate we saw that some spoke for 30 and 40 minutes and you did not warn anyone except the promoter of this initiative. I don't think that's correct, but I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24105	I mentioned, I just cited the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24106	All right. I had to say that, because the only reason I was being challenged was because of the length of speech, unlike any of my other colleagues, who, quite frankly, went too far in something, if anything in the length of the speech. I initially tried to explain and gave reasons in writing and verbally. Everyone who participated in the debate, one way or another, and even those who defended this council of ministers, they actually admitted that this initiative has room. So many new reasons are said today in these five hours, that anyone who is well-intentioned and honest in front of himself will know that this initiative has certainly had its purpose and that this is how the question of Mr. Terzić is raised again, however, that we end up parting as humans. It would have been, then, really something that was almost over since the formation of this council of ministers set out in the sense that they were not the most feared, that there were not one team individually within it there were good jobs, neither can I deny everything, but at the same time the initiatives that were the first, second and fruit of the third, were speaking in time that this council of ministers should have been removed and not now, and not at the end and just because of this initiative say that this initiative is now too late because, behold, we have in October elections. Don't forget this continuity of criticism from this parliament and written demands to vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers. It's the only way to look at a general context and make a final decision in it, and now we're going to have a chance, of course, to vote on it. I just have to say, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Terzić said that they proposed, and we as Parliament practically passed all the laws and that none were imposed. I've only got a record of official messengers in my hand for the year they're talking to me, and I don't think I'm going to be able to read as chairman, so I could, if you want me to take half an hour to read these decisions to the High Representative, but they're going to remind me of the length of my life. It ends with a regular number of 50 decisions by the High Representative and a single warrant. Just for 2005. Well, you kept your mouth shut that the Council of Ministers Act itself was imposed, on which you operate, which is what Professor Lagumdžija was talking about, and you didn't even blink at the pay phone when you said no law. What is worth talking about with such a council of ministers, who, apparently, does not want to accept, nor does he want to plow on the correct ground so that you too may be able to get better. That's why I think you as a minister's advice are not at all people who can change and get better. You're going with your colossal, but the Chargan Eight, and that way you don't accept anything from this House, but you just have a desire to get this job done with mentors who tell you that you're good reformers, etc. I was often honored here today that I should have given a way out of this, and even the opposition from the Federation and the position was in that position that it should have. Let me remind you. I said that if the Council of Ministers were to vote out of confidence, and I am deeply convinced that it should, it would not come to a peaceful conclusion, you would calmly wait for it because you finished the job, you lobbyed secretly, and I, behold, tried to lobby publicly in this House, I think it is fairer, because both the Federation opposition and the position feel that a new 79 solution should be given tomorrow. I'm the one who suggested it, and dr. Živković rightly said wrongly, it is true that SNSD so SDPs are the strongest political parties according to BiH research. I believe that the prime minister should be primarily from the ranks of these political organizations, but let me tell you, I have the next solution, if that's what you're interested in. To propose to the Bureau who might be the prime minister and who might be the minister, so that the new mandater might be considered or thrown out as garbage, but since I've been asked by my colleagues, but you know as a politician who has all the options in my pocket, I also have that variant. If you're interested, I can read it. Mr. Sipović has criticised the minister of justice so much, I thought there was no way to support this council of ministers, because that minister of justice sleeps there more than he does, so in that state he is unable to answer what you asked for with justice. I think you'd be a good Justice Minister, Mr. Sipović, to remove it all, but I won't bid on it because I'm going to get your votes and we're going to bring down the Council of Ministers, and that's why I'm not going to take that variant out of my pocket, leave it to my conscience, so we're going to see how far we're going to get this HDZ from 1990, the new HDZ, I'm expecting you to be more precise and clear why you're neither here nor here. I'd like you to be in. Don't be held back in these big things. No matter how anyone spoke from the Federation, I said the reasons were trivial when it was said why this initiative shouldn't be supported, but I really don't know tomorrow and the future when we're criticizing the Council of Ministers again, so there are people who have had to, we have a chance to say you're bad guys. Until the last second we tell you you're bad guys. Let's give you that yellow card so you can't be wrong about being reformers. We have a variant and to change you, even though it would be the best solution in four months for someone else to exercise power. You'll be responsible for all Mr. Lagumdžija and you for giving four months to an incompetent government, and whenever you sit down, do you know how many millions of marks they spend at the Council of Ministers, did you count it? You like to deal with computers and computers. I can tell you that, but I don't have to. Every time they sit around, you know how much this country's citizens cost, they just spend money, they sign decisions, and it's all money, so it's better if they don't sit down. But that's not enough reason either. You talked about the laws, and you boasted about it. It is clear to all of us in BiH that the OHR laws are passed, that they are in the English version and that you misrecord them and that through the VAT you release philosophical societies, as Mr Lagumdžija has already spoken about it, and that I have advocated in this House and that is why you are the most responsible, because Parliament, you are a lawmaker Council of Ministers as executive power, and we are the ones who need to adopt good laws, to change them slightly, if you do your job well. In these three and a half years, you haven't formed an administration, which is able to produce, so to speak, good laws, and what will happen to us when the High Representative and representatives of the international community who are now doing these laws go away. We're going to have to go to Brussels and pay 200 thousand marks each of these laws, because we haven't learned how to write laws in these ten years. That's why you're holding primary responsibility. Don't be wrong about other people's laws. They're not a product of our mind, because they told me themselves from the international community. We go, watch out for these other entity governments, take the law with a desire to fix us, and those who are half-trons towards the international community and the OHR say, well it doesn't need to be changed, and we grab our heads, because we offered 70% of some good solution. That's how we run the country, and that's how we boast at the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. It's a disaster, Mr Lagumdžija said well. How much we missed or did you miss in this period to create institutions and the rule of law, so you're holding that primary responsibility. It doesn't mean anything to me personally that I'm missing Strasbourg, Brussels, Vašington, and that at the same time we haven't essentially changed our awareness of relationship and creation, but we're obedient to some task they give us from the international community. Come on, guys, let's do 80 on our own. I am telling you that in BiH there is such a mind, only on the wrong or cannot possibly come because of these party relations in the right place, which could certainly parise those in Strasbourg, Brussels and Washington. It's just that with the bad frame, we humiliate ourselves and, normally, we listen to them all, and then we're good and reformers. But it's not worth much talking about. I would have concluded it this way. It's not Mr. Lagumdžija any secret deal between me and Mr. Terzić. I was also aware of us at the club when we proposed this initiative, that everyone would look at it from their own corner and have their own interests. I know that in the SDA party, many would like to see Mr. Terzić's back, but you settled there, because you figured out before the election now that the vice president will crash, it wouldn't be politically clever, so they don't leave you because you're capable, but politically not profitable for the Party of Democratic Action. I'm in political analysis. Mr. Sipović said, analysts are a miracle. So when we take this same relationship that we're talking about, I think the conscience we've proposed is pure, the citizens will have damage every day with this kind of authority. We bear part of the responsibility either of those who were abstentioned or who did not vote, which means they voted for such a council of ministers, and we at the club and myself will have a clean and peaceful conscience. I'll be able to speak publicly about you being incompetent and you should have been going to the Council of Ministers, but, behold, you've all settled in the Federation, all parties and positions and oppositions and leave you in our lives to Bog help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24107	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go. No more reports, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24108	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, present guests, unfortunately and today we attend a rather useless meeting, or session of the BiH Parliament, where by who knows which way we are spinning on topics that are simply and briefly solved. First of all, we have to move on, as every man has to go on, and so does this Parliament, and we don't do it right, and we are extended hands, when I say, I mean all of us, I don't mean the truth to myself by party leaders or parties. The situation was similar with Mr. Terzić, the Council of Ministers, that on one hand he is under the influence of the international community and must meet the requirements that the international community makes, on the other hand, must satisfy the requirement of a co-partnership in BiH. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the work of the Council of Ministers in BiH is more than 30% in the past three years, which means it is impenetrable. But the fact is, working conditions weren't normal. That's no excuse. It is also a reminder to this parliament, as well as to the Council of Ministers and all politicians of this country to change and organise the state properly. But it also makes no sense that today, four or five months before the end of this government's term, we resolve the government, and that it works in the technical mandate by the end of the year, so I will vote against this initiative. Thank you very much. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24109	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24110	I tried to refrain, but I want to explain to Mr. Gligorić, he keeps speaking to you from the Federation. So this is the House of Representatives. This isn't the home of an entity. The political parties that have run for office here, the people who have been elected here, some are also operating on BiH territory. So it's not about the Federation syntagma.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24111	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24112	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, given what I'm about to say, that everyone dressed, is not my winter, on the contrary, I have, however, the obligation to talk about the government like this, me, I must admit, not just me, but all of us here, in a certain way, extremely disappointed this whole discussion and the Council of Ministers' behaviour. We won't be able to support this council of ministers and, very likely, we'll join the people who asked for recall for one simple reason, I'll see when it's voted that it will be, for one simple reason we've tried everything and we've expected it, we've offered the prime minister a go out looking for a free hand, replace the ministers all. Here instead we heard the answers on the subject, we worked, road rules, VAT supers, etc. So, instead of offering us any kind of a colossal response to how to get these four or five months, how much is left in this Parliament's call to have executive power, instead of trying to solve something over the next few months, obviously sticking its head in the sand here. We are also ready, if this support passes, to invite the Presidency here as parliament to immediately appoint a new mandate and the SDP is ready to support the new mandate and the new government in the technical mandate, unless it will work, including the formation and something called the minority government, and we will not participate in it unless the Presidency asks us to do so normally. And since that's not going to happen, so we're ready to form a new council of ministers immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24113	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr Adnan Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24114	I'm glad Mr. Lagumdžija won't. I was afraid all along that he would support this council of ministers. But now in the end, I'm really relieved. I don't understand why he changed his position at the beginning of his presentation, because no one from the Council of Ministers, the debate is over, Mr. Lagumdžija, this time I have the final word. So you don't give a shit about that lifting. So, we didn't say anything at all after the clarification and the response that I gave on behalf of the Council of Ministers, no one from the Council of Ministers had said anything, participated in this debate, so I didn't get 82 clearly, and immediately after I did, I spoke to Agent Lagumdžija and I don't understand when we could answer, even to the offers you made.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24115	Don't have a dialogue, you've got a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24116	Now we're too pleased with the fact that you won't support us. I really must say for those, especially Mr. Gligorić, who say the Council of Ministers is holding its course and that's why he should leave. I must tell you, Mr. Gligorić, as hard as it may be for you, this council of ministers will continue to hold that course. This council of ministers has placed BiH on the lines leading Europe and this council of ministers will not give it up as long as we have a mandate. Our mandates here today are in your hands, so proceed with the vote you set out towards us. So this council of ministers did what they did. Someone can be a little, someone can be too much, someone can be enough. I am responsible for saying that in the environment in which we work, it's maximum, that we brought this country to the door of Europe. Putting a burden on us that in three and a half years we haven't formed management, it says that after amoeba became this council of ministers. What I'm saying is that before us there were councils of ministers in which you participated Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Lagumdžija normally and a number of MPs, and I guess we inherited management, and is it a little bit more milky that you expected, who established management in post-day Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we now need to form something new. It was you who set up the administration. We inherited it. I won't tell what we inherited and don't God tell anyone. I just know, whether the Council of Ministers' mandate ends today, whether it ends on October 1st, this council of ministers has left behind management, the strong state institutions this council of ministers has left behind the system and whoever comes after us, I am willing to publicly answer for every failure in the system, if there is one, and there is none, and this council of ministers knows what kind of administration we have taken over, but we haven't even talked about it. We have been working on our projects and we will continue our projects and don't worry, Mr Gligorić, if this council of ministers doesn't trust us today, there will be two ministries, Mr Gligorić, whatever you think of it. The two new ministries by the end of the term of office of this council of ministers will be, that is our obligation, and that is what we ourselves in the Council of Ministers have committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24117	Thank you very much, Mr. Adnan Terzić. I've concluded the debate, but since the name of Mr Lagudmžija is mentioned, he has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24118	So, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for the right I have, but the time has come for you to thank when someone gives you the right you have. And, in view of how the prime minister performed, well, you didn't either. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24119	And it's a hard time not getting the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24120	I'm sure, but you were also a pemir and an opposition and a power and you know what it's like, all of this comes out on its own. In fact, I haven't changed my mind about what I had, especially from what I was saying. Let me be very clear and do the manetogram and do everything. We've offered the prime minister all possible options, replace the ministers who don't work. He's asking you to form a new council of ministers, give him a new mandate, you from the ruling coalition of whatever you want, but obviously instead we have two ministers here, obviously, who, after all, can't give any results to their chairman of the Council of Ministers, not to bid further. We have Minister Halilović and Minister Ivanić, who, after all, can do nothing productively over the next 4-5 months with Prime Minister Terzić. For example, we offer him, go ahead and relieve those people, if they've got spikes, where they don't put themselves, and they won't move. So we offer you everything and, after that, whatever you want from us. After that you come out weakly here, instead of saying anything in response specifically, you tell God we're against you. Well, well, okay, you know why you're so happy, because you counted that there's not here and when we join here there's not enough votes, so no problem, you'll stay. Unfortunately, whatever vote results are because what you've done shows that you have no readiness and this ruling coalition... The presidency to form a council of ministers or to keep doing this properly. So you'll stay. However it ends, but it's going to be written down that we didn't want to agree that when we offer you everything alive, you're going to act silly and explain that this is great what was done in the last three-and-a-half years. No, this is a disaster. What do we do now? You'll move on. Špirić, I appreciate what you've offered. But I mean, what about that, the commission, and then again in two months to realize that they're not exactly the best, I mean, in October, people are going to say what they think of them and about us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24121	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. It is now up to the vote under Article 120. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The formulation is a vote on mistrust by the Council of Ministers, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure. I read the rules of procedure. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. Please, we'll be precise. Take it easy. I've read it, only we have to listen, but here you go, Mr. Gligorić. There's the Secretary of the House to explain the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24122	I call on the Rules of Procedure and ask that we issue an individual statement on this proposal, which is to call on the Joint Club's initiative. He doesn't have to. You've learned to be in a chair always, stay and now. I wish we had delayed this point when our colleagues came to work in full composition, but today, a colleague is gone even though they are professionals and, if there are no more important things in 84 auctions when Parliament is sitting, but, well, maybe someone went to glory, maybe that's more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24123	I ask Mrs. Todorović to read you the exact wording so there will be no confusion of some, which I have already said, but you are asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24124	Oh, here we go, so there's no dilemma. We vote on the non-trust of the BiH Council of Ministers, article 120, item 1 after the debate is over, the proposal on non-trust is put to the vote. So, who's in favor of a motion for mistrust to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24125	Since the request was for individual clarification, what the Rules of Procedure foresees, I ask Mrs. Todorović to make the call of MPs and to approach the plea. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24126	We're voting against the Council of Ministers. 1. Mirsad Ćeman - v. 2. Šefik Džaferović – v. 3. Hazim Felić - v 4. Izet Hadžić – v 5. Fatima Leho - she's gone 6. Nadžid Mlaćo - v 7. Mirsad Sipović – v 8. Muber Ušanović – v 9. Muhamed Žilić – v 10. Beriz Belkić – v 11. Nijaz Duraković – not here 12. Azra Hadžiahmetović – v 13. Adem Huskić – v 14. Mehmed Suljkanović – v 15. Filip Andrić – abstention 16. Vlatka Komšić – v. 17. Martin Raguž – abstention 18. Ruđa Sopta – abstention 19. Vinko Zorić – not here 20. Selim Bešlagić – for 21. Zlatko Lagumdžija – for 22. Jozo Križanović – for 23. Sead Avdić – v 24. Muhamed Altić - v 25. Ibrahim Đedović – not here 26. Ivo Lozančić – for 27. Muhamed Moranjkić - not here 85 28. Mladen Potočnik – v 29. Miloš Jovanović – for 30. Ljiljana Milićević – for 31. Nenad Mišić – 32. Momčilo Novaković – for 33. Marija Perkanović – for 34. Dušanka Majkić – 35. Nikola Špirić – for 36. Milorad Živković – for 37. Jelina Đurković – for 38. Petar Kunić – for 39. Mirko Blagojević – for 40. Tihomir Gligorić – for 41. Elmir Jahić – v 42. Senija Kapetanović – v Do you want to declare?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24127	So, the result of the individual statement by the MPs at the House of Representatives is for not trusting the Council of Ministers against 18 and 3 abstentions. The initiative didn't get the necessary majority. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I put other initiatives on the table, and there was only one in writing, proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić, vice-president. It's a proposal to conclude that the House of Representatives, you all have to not read. I ask the MPs to prepare and vote now. So, at the request of the counsel, we repeat the plea. Please prepare. Vote now. For 13, versus 17, abstention 5.. I konstatirati that the House of Representatives did not accept this proposal as a conclusion. Let's move on. We're going to the next item on the agenda, which is 4. Ad.4. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Policy Act The law is in first reading. As you know, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy, at the 77th session, did not receive an entity majority in the first reading. In accordance with Article 3 of Article 65, I hereby inform the House that agreement has been reached within the College and I find that this proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act has been adopted in the first reading. 86 I am now putting the motion to the vote to move on to another reading of this legislative proposal. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So, with 22 votes for, 3 against, 3 abstentions, we've accepted the proposal to move on to reviewing this law in another reading. If you insist, the result will be the same. Tell me, I'm asking you. So we're moving on to the debate. All right, I'm asking you to hold back, and here I am holding back from commenting. We're moving on to a debate. More important things will just come and do it much faster than they think and more quality than many have ever imagined. The discussion of the law in the second reading. Are there any reports? There isn't. Thank you very much. We move on to a statement on the proposal for a black policy bill in the second reading. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. Vote now. I find that with 24 votes in favour, 7 against and without abstentions with a sufficient ethnic majority, we have adopted the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Policy Act. I thank the MPs. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. Request of MPs, i.e. members of the College of Martin Raguž, Šefik Džaferović and Nikola Špirić to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24130	Okay, I accept this, but the new home is for us to impose. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24131	They can change everything about them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24132	I don't accept that argument, especially the Rules of Procedure that we've come up with. I was hoping it would be much more productive, more creative, and I was as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission really made remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24133	I agree with you. There is room for a much better-quality Rules of Procedure, and let the composition decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24134	Just from that point of view, I accept the arguments, but for the record that this new psalmist, he may have been a chance to make himself more creative.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24135	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24136	It's very short. It is a pity, indeed, that the Rules of Procedure that we have long agreed on, on which it has been done, has not been applied but also in this summary, but I understand the reasons and it seems that the only rational thing to do at this point is to do as it is proposed. I only have, and I haven't had time to study this a little bit more detail, and on the suggestion, let me say, the people of our professional service, I have a suggestionr, and by agreeing to this, maybe even some kind of amendment. It is, in fact, that there is an understanding that the Rules of Procedure are being amended by a decision. So it might make sense for us today to adopt a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, etc. a member of the 1st Reform, and this is now nomotechnical in the sense that in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Official Messenger of this and that, Article 186 is changing and voting, etc. So these are purely nomotechnical stuff. I don't know, here, Madam Secretary would, if you consider it necessary to answer this. It is essentially the same only understanding that the Rules of Procedure are being amended by a decision. That's what I'm referring to. It doesn't exactly say anything, but that's why. However, I say, if this is going to be a problem for us to adopt today, I don't insist on this, except that I suggest that we just, at times, keep an account of the earlier practice, which, perhaps, is nothing else prescribed and then should not be derrogated, but I repeat, it is not about the essence, however it remains or as you have suggested or, possibly, complemented, the essence is important, and that is to delay the application of the Rules of Procedure. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24137	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24138	Professional replica. I do not agree with my colleague to say that we are making a decision to amend and supplement the decision, it has no legal aspect of the normative action, but can only amend and supplement the Regulation, which enters into force. Therefore, my suggestion to remain a change and a supplement, and by decision, no mention of the decision. Then we could make a decision about amending and supplementing the law. Here's the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24139	Thank you very much. I think we can conclude the debate and I now propose that we declare the procedure first, i.e. the requirement to consider this under Article 105. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. I agree that we unanimously accepted the procedure under Article 105. I now ask the MPs to make a statement on the very proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, i.e. requesting that the application of the Rules of Procedure be postponed after the election. Please prepare. Vote now. I agree that we unanimously accepted the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, under which this Rules of Procedure applies from the 10th month o.g. that is, after the election. I thank the MPs for this understanding. We're moving to agenda six. Ad.6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH, by procedure 104. 17.4. This proposal has been presented to us in the procedure, and this is just a request to approve, i.e. to make a statement of the shortened procedure. Is there a need for a debate? Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24141	We are going to a shortened procedure by the 104th member, but at the same time we also know that in the commission stages, the proposal is also to amend the Criminal Law, and as Parliament, we appear inconclusive, because on two or three occasions every twenty days we will change the Criminal Law, and the Criminal Law of BiH is a serious law, so that in this way we will in fact devalue this work with constant and rapid changes. Now they're looking for these, the ombudsman are looking for human rights, too, because it's broken from their side, the Human Rights Commission is going to propose it to Parliament and again after 15 days we're changing BiH's Criminal Law again. I think that's where we should do some order, get it systematic, and when we change them to change it all at once. Let's keep these brothers waiting, too. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24142	Thank you very much to Mr Gligorić, but it is logical that the Council of Ministers actually has this dimension of insight into the whole of the problem and we here have to respect the procedure, namely to determine their request, which came to this house according to the Rules of Procedure. Are there any others reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please state the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 30 votes for, without votes against and 1 abstention, I agree that we have adopted the procedure of Article 104 for the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH. Thank you very much. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. Ad.7. The request of MPs is not tenorous, but it is my duty to read as it says in the title of the law, Ibrahim Đedović, Mladen Potočnik, Vinko Zorić, Filip Andrić, Miloš Jovanović, Izet Hadžić, Mehmed Suljkanović, Ivo Lozančić, Mirko Blagojević and Petar Kunić to discuss the bill on the rights and duties of representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, according to procedure 104. So here we're also pleading only on the procedure. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing up. Please state the procedure, that this request from the MPs, as I read it, is being considered in accordance with Article 104. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. We have a request for a reenactment. I'm asking the MPs to accept that. Stand by. Vote now. I find the law has a general majority, no Federation. So, he's going for a match. Can we go to the second round? So we don't have the consent. The college has failed to agree on the procedure. I suggest we go to the second round of pleas. The MPs who are against it are now pleading. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Here comes Mr. Špirić. No consent has been reached in the College. It wasn't the entity majority of the Federation for this law. We're going to the second round of pleas. Please state in the second round the MPs who vote against, get ready. Vote now. Therefore, the procedure for considering this bill has been adopted, the procedure laid down in Article 104 has been shortened. Rules of Procedure. 90 We move to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24149	Very short. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have been given the written form of the bill with an explanation. It would really be unnecessary for me to read it again. In fact, speaking on a similar subject in this House, I once said that when we adopted and supported the Excise Law proposal, it was a promise that we would get, at any rate, a proposal to amend or supplement that law, considering the problem of excise duty in a broader context, waiting for this proposal, for a time I was able to propose this law, so fragmented. However, since this proposal did not occur, I considered it necessary, indeed, and I stress that this in collaboration with the businessmen was proposed, to propose this partial amendment to the denatured alcohol, which cannot be used for anything other than what is imported and cannot change character into excise goods. So, to get rid of paying for a special action. I suggest and expect support for this proposal. Of course, expecting that other, possibly proposals, even if a partial or more comprehensive procedure will come as soon as possible, because the excise law obviously has reason to work out. In the end, let me just say it. Considering that certain colleagues with whom I have spoken, formally or informally, are having a relationship, possibly supporting this law with, also, certain to say the essential parts of the Excise Act or the need to free some more goods from paying excise duties. I understand, therefore, that connection, but why not 93 support something that is, possibly, and I hope that we have consent and it makes sense to support it, until we possibly exchange enough information and arguments in favor, possibly by supporting changes and something else. Not to be too long, so, without the intention of burdening anyone with any further argument, I think it's clear here. I would ask you to support this, and indeed an explanation, in point 2 of the reasons for the adoption of the law, which, in my opinion, is quite justified and would not be, to say in the context of responsibility and in some way to understand and support this Parliament and this House of Equality of Subjects in order to deafen the initiatives of those who have felt the problem, which I have overcome in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24150	Thank you, Mr. Cheman. We have two, three reported, Mrs Milićević, Mr Špirić, Mrs Majkić. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24151	I thank Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't be dealing with the report right now, they all got it, and you reminded me well that we had a report that rejected this bill and that then Dom had most of it returned to our commission. I just want to remind my fellow parliamentarians, which means that we also had for the first session of the Commission and the second opinion of the Council of Ministers and the Management Board for indirect taxation which was negative about this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24152	Mr. Špirić is giving up the debate. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24153	One of the reasons was, of course, that the Commission voted like this, because the Management Milićević said it was a negative position. And the second is, as a man, I wanted my conscience to be calm when it comes to voting for a decision like this, and I went through a lot of pages on the Internet that talk about it, about unsullied alcohol or spirit, and I found a few texts that say, if there are no alcoholic beverages, you drink pure denaturiated alcohol, you drink denaturiated spirit with water and sugar, as you make it so-called. A Sarajevo cognac using this denaturished alcohol has caused me doubts and therefore, with this addition, that the administration has said that it would cause a whole series of confusion in this part of the law that regulates excise duties. I don't think you should accept this proposal for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24154	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Replica, or you will hear, Mr. Filip Andrić has asked for a word before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24155	I just wanted to remind my fellow MPs that when we passed the Excise Act, we made a commitment to the Council of Ministers, and this morning we reminded ourselves of the non-execution of their 94 tasks, then the conclusion was that within a month of the preparation of the new excise law, i.e. the amendments and additions, where we specifically highlighted the problem of the vine of oil and, here already two seasons we spent, the Council of Ministers had done nothing and, therefore, I think this kind of partial solution should not be given, but should simply be imposed on the Council of Ministers, again give him a deadline and all of these things that we hold to change them in the Excise Act and that we do so and that we have a consensus, that in such a way it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24156	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24157	I just want to say, of course, to this observation, of course, I've looked at the Internet a variety of opinions about this. I did not quite get the impression that there was a lot of argument in favour of this, therefore, that this product could be changed from excise to non-excise goods, in the way that, here, from what Mrs. Majkić said could be concluded. Of course, everything can be misused in one abnormal and abnormal way, but this is a predominant relationship, therefore, a relationship of this type of product, as a product which in truth except in external cases, which, of course, is not a rule cannot be changed in the goods of different status. In order to refuse to think of any other species, I, of course, is not so important right now, but I have to say as an anti-alcoholic or at the end of my mind, it's not my idea to put into the position of someone who, possibly, might not be able to make, especially not a barrel of drinks, using this and thus avoid it, it's not even on my mind, of course, it's not the essence of your remark, but in the truth it's about understanding, it's about that the producers of certain products in BiH are, because of this status of this product, being brought into an unequal position, and here, in fact, many here are rarely inclined to talk about the need of protection, even on the principle of domestic production, etc. Neither, and I said, and that is what I end up with, and I have expected this law to be built up by the Council of Ministers, therefore, in a more content scope and approach. Since it wasn't, I've decided on this, although I could probably, like you, a series of other changes suggest, when it comes to this law, but, behold, I've limited myself to this, expecting to do something that the Council of Ministers' husband won't even notice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24158	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. We move to a statement on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on excise duties of Mr. Proposer Mirsad Ćeman in the first reading. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. This proposal did not receive the general majority and is considered rejected. 95 and we're going to the 13th agenda. Ad.13. Proposal for a Law on the holidays of BiH, with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and the proposings are representatives: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić I will remind you that this proposal has been in the parliamentary procedure since 25.2. last year and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the constitutional legal basis, and then as relevant as 11.4. last year and decided that before the debate on the principles of the proposed law, it would open a public hearing held on 11.5 last year, and after that on 106 last year, the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not accept the principles of the draft law. A negative report by the Constitutional and Legal Court considered the House at the 59th session of 29.6 last year, which did not adopt the Commission's report and the proposal for a law was sent back to the Commission for review and submission of a new report. At its 49th session, the Commission postponed the debate on the draft law, awaiting the investment of the amendments and at session 51.9. The Commission is retrieving a negative report. This report was not adopted by the House again, and the Law is still under review by the Commission. Finally, after reviewing the 63rd session, the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not re-adopt the principles of the draft holiday law, i.e. the holidays of BiH. So on the agenda we have a negative report that we are discussing and deciding. We remind you, if the report is passed, the law has fallen. You've got everything you need to decide. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24160	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, let's just say, the proposing's sincere intentions, I think this law has become an obstacle to the adoption of the holiday law at BiH level. Namely, we now have a circular current, where, apparently, there are groups of MPs, clubs of MPs, who are against this law and clubs of MPs who are against the report, a negative report. As long as this law is in the process, it's not possible to introduce some new procedure and my suggestion is to create an atmosphere to introduce a new law, and that's only possible if this law falls. I don't see any other way. I fear that as time comes to the elections, we will have more and more policies on this project, and the less and less sincere intentions to adopt any holiday law at BiH level.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24161	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24162	...for 15 months now, he's been in the process of this home. I can honestly say that I was satisfied, understanding colleagues both in the House and in the Commission to make efforts to try to reach the holiday law in BiH. 96 However, I think they have been created, according to counterpart Novaković, a certain polarisation in that, despite their best wishes, there was no compromise solution. I'm sure you can come. It only took a little more goodwill to get to the law, which, perhaps, would not have satisfied either the promoter or anyone else, but would have been some compromise solution, which would have been better than if we didn't have that law. However, if this is truly what counterpart Novaković has now said, we are ready to say immediately, here we will also support the commission's report as a contribution to finding this solution. But come on, colleagues, who will suggest it and what kind of proposal it will be to guarantee that we will get to the law. We don't have any guarantees here, please assure me that we will have a bill at the next session of any kind. I will now vote first for the commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24163	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24164	In the commission's report, and I'm talking about personal capacity now, so the report was delivered. Somewhere in the end, it is said that since the start of the debate, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been on the stand that every amendment, which substantially amends the provisions of the law regarding the number, name and date of the holiday, is at the same time an important issue of the principles on which the law rests, or on which it will definitely be based. It is clear, therefore, that, precisely the number, the name and similar holidays, are holidays etc. In fact, it's a controversial and fundamental reason why this law we're talking about didn't get the necessary support in the commission, and apparently in such a text it couldn't get support in the House itself. I have stood up to say that there are, indeed, undeniable dates, undeniable holidays, undeniable holidays and there have been thoughts about going that way, but, obviously, this law was not possible to fix in this sense, as I must say in person, it is also not possible to expect that some of the dates, or holidays proposed by the right of the promoter, should not enter into some future text of the BiH holiday law. So why don't we just figure it out? It was also obvious during the Commission's debate. Another thing I want to say to my colleague, Novaković, is that there is no other law that can enter the procedure before this existing one has some kind of final destiny, so I'm paraphrasing, so here we are today, we have an example that it can. The proposal for double amendments to the Criminal Code shows that it can. But, then, it can also come from this area. I am, in principle, procedurally standing at the point of view that if we hadn't delayed the application of the Rules of Procedure, which we recently adopted, then this procedure was more precisely arranged and could not have been quite so, or we would have had to negotiate. What was I going to say here? That, eventually, someone thinks they can pick up on other principles, let's say, the required majority, there's no place to propose that law. This proposal, proposed by colleagues Križanović and others, seemed quite good enough for me to support it. Therefore, I think that, although it will be a return to the circle or how to say that this time the Commission's report should not be accepted, because accepting the report would mean sending a message that some of the essential elements of the law of counterpart Križanović and others are not supported, and I want this Parliament to send us a different message. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24165	Thank you. Mr. Raguž asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24166	Before that, Mr. Novaković's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24167	I had an incorrect quote. Namely, the incorrect assumption is in the fact that Mr. Ćeman said this law was acceptable. As acceptable as it is to the fact, how many times it has been found here and not accepted here and here in the Commission. So that says enough how acceptable he is. So if it were acceptable he would have been accepted and I wasn't talking in this direction, I didn't want to talk about the law, I was just talking about aspects, how to get to the law. This way, obviously we won't get to the law and this law, and it is, I'm still standing around in this interference with the adoption of another law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24168	Thank you. Mr. Raguž, Chairman of the House, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24169	I would briefly get involved in the debate, in a way that, indeed, I say that these MPs who proposed this bill were both patient and active and there was room, indeed, to find a solution, because I, indeed, think that it was absolutely unwarranted that BiH had not adopted a holiday law in the BiH Parliament ten years after Dejton, and that it was really part of our responsibility and, in this regard, I felt that we should all make an effort to reach this law and based on what the honourable MPs had proposed. I really don't think we have the right to tolerate as the highest legislative body in BiH on this matter and then you have a situation where one holiday in one part of BiH is celebrated in another working day, so in part again in certain parts of one entity or another, which is called creating a kind of confusion and in some way creating a negative overall picture in BiH. I've had several amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, I really think it was close to getting adopted and now I'm asking a question. What's rational to do. If we are ready to take responsibility today that we will really try to work, because this is obviously a proposal that had to be further worked on in order for it to get a majority in both the Commission and the House and that this is possible only if we agree on what is the least possible minimum for BiH. Not to leave, I'm for that approach. It is better to define five other than these religious ones and to have the issue settled in BiH. And, on the basis of that, I think that, here when I talk about state, not religious, because they are indisputable, they can say that it is New Year, that the date of BiH's entry into the UN is something that everyone could agree on as the day of its independence, and that this proposal is the Day of Victory over Fascism and Europe's Day can be the Day of Europe that all implies. All positive values in that part or the day of memory of the victims of all wars, which is both civilizational and correct, no one can paralyze with that and, if we want to accept these principles and that approach, I think we can get to the law tomorrow. I think it's been done a lot, and it might be a moment to come up with a solution, whether we reject this law today, that the new one immediately appears in the procedure, but that the people who propose 98 really come from the assumption that a common minimum is being found, and not that they keep everyone in their positions all the time, and that's one condition that fits the political options set, in fact I don't think it answers to anyone and shows that we're not able to sort out one important question, so here, I'm going to get involved in the adoption of this law, if this doesn't go through and be, I'm ready to, regardless of the party I'm saying this now on behalf of the party that I belong to the HDZ 1990, regardless of the position or opposition, to come and to work on this law, I would consider it an important step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24170	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24171	My support for Mr. Raguž's words. I think political will if it is expressed by all parliamentary parties in BiH, which is European integration and the acceptance of European standards, absolutely obliges the country of BiH to have the holiday law and we should no longer be there whether or not we will, but rather, it is only necessary to make efforts to reach the holiday law. The holiday law very often does not reintegrate BiH, but goes against BiH's reintegration and that is what is politically negative and what simply is a constant source of tension among citizens and peoples in BiH. If that's what I realized, it's a top priority. I, therefore, propose colleague Novaković seems shyly promoting the political will to work on, that it is a joint project and that in this context, the Constitutional and Legal Commission should return the report and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission make an effort to reach a consensus on this law. There is no political profit nor the SDP Club nor do I know who else, third, can only have BiH. So, I really suggest that this report of the commission return to the commission and try to make a new approach, a project approach, in the sense that we simply get the law on the holidays of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24172	I thank Mr. Avdić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24173	Well, I guess I'm a little different in formulating my position than Mr. Avdić put it out. Namely, I believe that this law no longer needs to be in the process and that it needs someone who can find a solution, and, of course, it can be for any of us here, who can suggest a solution, which he or she seems to have a better chance of getting support in this home than this solution. So, in that sense, I was saying that it's better that this law is gone, not to return it to the commission, so we're looking for a solution, because I'm afraid some dates here make it impossible for some of the members of the Commission to think rationally about adopting the law. It's essential. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Raguž has some very prominent dates or topics here, and he has the opportunity to talk. The day BiH joins the UN for me can be a state holiday that will be called the day of BiH's admission to the UN. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24174	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24175	Well, for the last time today, I'm reporting on this subject. Namely, it should remain an appropriate impression when it comes to differences. I tried that quote from the report to just remind you of what it was, actually disagreed. The bottom line is next. It is not disputed that some dates, including December 22nd as the UN's day of entry, are marked in BiH in some way, but it is controversial and this has proved obvious on the competent commission that, possibly this or similar date has been replaced by some other dates, holidays, which, too, have its own significance and which have been rightly recognised by the promoter. And, in truth, I agree that even if this report today would not support and return to the commission, it would be, in an indirect way, a simple return to the circle, but I don't see, really, no reason that I can vote differently and support the commission's report, no matter what I'm in it, which in an indirect way would degrade what good in the proposal which should be definitely confirmed as good. That's why I would separate and I think that on that trail and my colleague Novaković, I understood it in that part, separate the fate of this law, with, possibly a change, the possible right of someone else to propose a possible compromise. What he'll look like to shape, formulate him, and then we'll deal just as seriously as we've dealt with this issue. Here, just as the chairman of the Commission, let me say, we did have one fair, fair debate on this subject, exchanged a number of arguments against, etc. Therefore, from the point of view of what the Commission could do, it did indeed. On the other hand, I don't know what that is, and in this report, a public debate is being held right now in this room. The public is also others who wanted to say how they felt about this. So this is not just a simple question and let me really conclude by who thinks, as counterpart Novaković said he could offer an acceptable proposal, let him do it, but let's not associate it with this bill. He has his own destiny, and let it spin until that Rules of Procedure comes into effect, which will simply solve this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24176	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24177	I just want to clarify my intention in terms of finding a possible compromise on this law. I thought that returning this to the Constitutional and Legal Commission had the next goal and motive, which is that this law could be a good basis, just so that in a debate of open character and type, the Constitutional and Legal Commission would try to bring the text of the law into line, who would sign it, it's so little important people. So, I plead that this basis of the law goes back to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, conducts a debate and tries to agree and simply go into parliamentary procedure, and it would be best to do so to the College maybe. All three members of the College try to bring this thing together. This is more than a law and more simple than a project of the Members' Club or one MP, etc. A college can do that. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24178	Okay. We understood the suggestions. I personally demonstrated my willingness to get involved in it. Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24179	I almost gave up. But I want to say this. If there is an honest will to come to this law, the shortest time is to keep this alive and try again to make an effort. You see, out of the 12 holidays that were proposed, about nine of any dilemmas were gone. Should we throw out one, add two new ones, etc. It's a matter of political will. Well, we had an example, I told my colleague Novaković, he proposed a law on sending our military and police forces and experienced with the political will that was there, more amendments than his bill had articles. So you can if you want to. So, if we want to get to it quickly, we have the shortest way now. But if you think it's a distraction and we're going to get to a new law, here, I say again, we're going to support the commission itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24180	Thank you very much, but Mr. Križanović, you know that just by respecting this very approach, we opened this last possibility, when I had the amendments, which were objectively the closest to being accepted and that there was no willingness for that kind of compromise. And you supported us to repeat everything? Okay, I'm bound to put this report to a statement right now. The Commission’s report to the Constitutional and Legal Committee on this draft law. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. The Commission report has a general majority and has no entity. Shall we agree to make a new law? The Commission's report has a general majority and does not have a majority of the Federation and I said so and we are now in a position to agree as a College. My proposal is to agree and accept the Commission's report and start doing business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24181	I am not agreed to accept the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24182	Okay, now those who are against the Commission's report are voting. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. There is no two-thirds majority and the Commission's report has been adopted and the bill has been rejected and we are moving on. 101 We move to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. Mr Samir Mušović's discharge as deputy chief auditor for resigning In 2903, Mr. Samir Mušović resigned as deputy chief auditor for his second post. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, Parliament may relieve the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor from that function, including in the event of a written resignation. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that at the 77th session, the House established the Commission for the selection of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor and that the tendering process is under way for the Vice Chief Auditor. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24184	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say a few sentences, and that's about this resignation. That this man and the people he worked with, and in particular Samir deserved this parliament to say that he has worked honestly and honestly so far, that he has called from the knights of democracy as former High Representative Pedi Eždaun he and other people have come to be persecuted and that they have had by this assembly majority and those who exercise power over a million problems, and this ends in the end by not even mentioning your audit reports in his report, reports from the expensive institutions. I have only the moral need and the obligation to thank Mr Samir for everything he's done so far, because I suppose he won't hear such words in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24186	I thank Mr. Chairman, I, since Mr. Mušović Bog alive and well I don't think I'm keeping a necrologus, I will say and thank you for what I meant on behalf of this working college, the Finance Commission, means thank you for the correct co-operation we had with him and the entire team of our auditors. So, I have to deny what Mr. Gligorić said, because I was a witness, and when there were SIGME people here and co-operation with Mr. Mušović and other auditors, they were always present at all our sessions, we agreed together, and I witnessed that they had repeatedly said that they had the only support in this House of Representatives and in this commission. 102 Therefore, I thank Mr Mušović for his correct co-operation and I want him to be in a new job, since he resigned himself, to show just as much success as he had as an auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24187	The replica is wanted by Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24188	What Milićević said in terms of co-operation and good work, it stands, but secondly, not on her position is hypocritical by the Parliament's majority of the House of Representatives through everything these people have been through, through the Presidency which has been involved in an impeccable shop to bring down those people, it really represents one hypocrisy and such concern is that parliamentary oversight and is a fundamental function when it comes to an independent audit office or an office should stand in such a way and it is an international standard. But they know best, and if we remember what we said in this House to make their lives miserable and that these people don't work there anymore and that others come. You gentlemen can criticise and talk about what you want, but just remember what you said, what you stood for and from people who did their job with honor and integrity, they were supposed to be punished for, being chicanted, being kicked out of that job, and that's the fact that you bring your obedient people, who are going to keep doing it, because these people were independent and professional. That's my attitude. And you'll fix it however you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24189	We have the wrong allegations, the replica, at your place, Mrs. Sopta, the replica. The first came from Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Sopta, after which she blamed Mrs. Milićević's allegations, after which Mrs. Majkić was sucky, Mrs. Perkanović after Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I assume Mr. Gligorić has confused parliaments or confused the audits. Perhaps he did not read the resignation in which I must say, the distinguished Mr. Mušović says, distinguished MPs and MPs, let me thank you once again for the trust and support you have openly provided to the staff of the Audit Office. I don't think it was right to break this sentence. Perhaps, therefore, Mr. Gligorić, there was no need for you to say more than is said in this sentence, and it says a lot. And if you're thinking about some other parliament or other auditors, and it's possible that it is, then you have to do it somewhere else, through some other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24191	Okay. Mrs. Sopta, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24192	Well, maybe I'll repeat what my colleagues said. I think this is the only institution that hasn't been denied a single report, and every time there was a good two-digit number. 103 Therefore, this Parliament has also been working together with this institution, and let me say that as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, I also had one excellent cooperation in truth. I think the Finance and Budget Commission has also benefited this institution and this institution from this Parliament and how. We received the rating for their work and from SIGME as excellent as SIGMA again in communication with members of the Finance and Budget Commission and I do not see any room for this discussion by Mr Gligorić, nor do I see the purpose, especially what Mr Mušović is resigning, and he is talking about some kind of banishment of Malta not from this service.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24193	Okay. Thank you very much, Mrs. Sopta. Please, Mr. Gligorić. Mrs. Milićević, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24194	I apologize to my colleagues, and primarily to Mr Mušović, who, however, should have been an act formal, more solemn, but what people say is that you don't know what's going to happen behind the hill, so what's going to happen to my fellow tih, right now he's got good ideas for himself, even though they're not based or valid. I mean, I've found these people Mr. Kulin and Mušović, and Mr. Miletić was here as auditors and we worked with them. We found the '98 audit reports. In 2004, the number was constantly increasing. It never happened that the House of Representatives refused a single audit report and one budget user, that we did not accept the recommendations proposed by the revision and we added them and proposed them to the House. So, there has never been a dispute on individual audit reports, and as far as the prosecution, which Mr Gligorić is concerned, this dom has supported the Commission's position, although these reports are open to the public and available to both the Prosecutor's Office and everyone, so the House has supported us, that all reports on the audit go to the prosecution and that the prosecution decides whether it has a basis for launching the proceedings or not. Therefore, no one has ever hidden it or been kind, but all the reports have been sent to the D.A. to examine whether it has the basis for any kind of initiation of the application.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24195	Thank you. The discussion, the word has Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Well, Mr. Gligorić, you can't just replicate and discuss. You see, Parliament's full of 42 men is here. You've got a minute since you're replicating second time. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24196	I'll fit in in 60 seconds. That's when Mr. Džaferović forced his people to talk as much as he wanted, and I couldn't as a proposer. 104 Mr. Novaković, as far as I'm going to say and how much I need to express something, you can criticise it, but you have no right to take away my right to my opinion, etc., and that is what you've gotten yourself into. I just want to say that it wasn't a problem about the audit reports that we accepted, but personnel policy was a problem. So you remember that this House of Representatives has been doing this for hours and hit by public slapping members of the BiH presidency, who wanted to lead an illegal and one non-disciplined personnel policy to bring their people to the Office of Audit, we prevented them, as Parliament did, and that was good. And, if you're really praising Mr. Samir so much, let's not respect his resignation and let the man stay and let him do this job honestly and he'll still have our support, you won't be sad if he gets back there. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24197	Thank you. Everyone's going to make a statement. Mrs. Majkić, I apologize two or three times, but that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24198	So, as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, I need to thank Mr Samir Mušović for his excellent co-operation in his work so far. I regret that such a significant nistitution remains without such a man with such professional and professional qualities and that his work and engagement will long serve as an example in BiH institutions. That's why I, as a man, primarily want to thank him and wish him well at his new job.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24199	Thank you. Mrs. Perkanović Mara asked for a word. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24200	I don't think we need to develop this kind of discussion and this many replicas, that it is undeniable to support Mr Mušović's resolution, since he resigns for some other job, and I support that and ask for it to be voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24201	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić, let Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24202	Perhaps it was in the beginning, perhaps we should ask a question with gratitude everything that fellow Mušović did really, with all due respect. So is this resignation the result of any form of pressure from anyone? Only in Parliament has the possibility of protection and is obliged to submit such information to Parliament, because in the public multiple times, it has simply, in very controversial situations, come forward and in this context, I doubt that this very resignation is an expression until the end of the commitment to going to another job. Thank you. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24203	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić asked for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24204	I'll try to be very brief. Mr. Samir, let me thank you on behalf of the SDP for your work and just say, if this is an expression of your personal desire without pressure, I want you to have success and good health in future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24205	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Mušović, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24206	I'll be brief. Dear MPs and MPs, I miss the words to thank you for your support. I resigned, and immediately to resolve this dilemma, I brought my resignation willingly, without the pressure of political, material and other nature. Of course, we were getting ready to stay longer, probably some of my colleagues will apply. I've already gone somehow with both body and spirit from the audit and I think I've done it a long time ago, I don't mean physically, but I must tell you honestly that I expected more, but I've seen you don't blame me on this company this white hall as an operating room and you as staff, which was really eager and I've seen you, I don't have almost one, ma max one person that has opposed our activities together now I'm talking. So we were all working in one direction, but I saw you just being left without an instrumentation. You were supposed to make decisions that implicated some reflections from our audits to the executive government. You didn't have this instrumentation, you didn't have, you weren't assisted in that period of 5-6 years, I'm saying, simply a series of measures that I've seen missing here, starting with budget cuts or budget cuts, including political demands, etc. It just wasn't built into your regulations, it wasn't built into your practice, and if it was training with the OSCE and I was aware of everything that was done, but I think it's going to be a simple subject of work for the next few years, that with this instrument, which is already in your hands, it's an independent audit, which is what I really appreciate and respect that you've given me a chance at all for both my colleagues and me to do this job the way we did. However, I think the system must now be upgraded to implement the recommendations of the revision. I have to admit, there was too many percent of the recommendations, repeated year after year, aside from all the progressive points that we've all recorded here. There's progress, and you're as aware as we are. So much and thank you. I thank you again for your trust. I hope we'll see each other again. I'd like you to respect my request for resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24207	I thank Mr. Mušović. This debate is over. 106 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with 26 votes in favour, without against and 1 abstention and enough entity majority, has accepted the resignation of deputy general auditor-general Samir Mušović and here has relieved him of his duties on the basis of his resignation. I am taking the opportunity to, on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, thank Mr Mušović for the correct performance of the duties from which we, right now, have resolved him on the basis of his resignation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the next 15th item of the agenda. Ad.15. Information on the Abazović family tragedy You know the situation with the Abazović family. You've received all the materials that came to Parliament in connection with this case. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of BiH-level defence and security structures, discussed certain materials and provided a report on the Abazović Information case. The Joint Commission report you received. I remind you that the Joint Commission is proposing the following conclusions to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. (a) Given that the investigation into the Abazović case is under way, it is necessary to wait for its completion to take a final view on the case. (b) The BiH Ministry of Security undertakes to provide the Joint Commission and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with information on its results after the end of that investigation. I'm opening the debate. Here, we have two proposals under a. and b. our joint commission on defence and security policy. Mr. Momčilo Novaković picked up the phone. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24209	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, as a member of this committee, for speaking much more about this case, so I believe that with these conclusions, in fact, it is in some way that this House is definitely getting that final info on this case. So, really, I won't talk much. I think she's really talked a lot about this and the public lately, but I need to point out a few facts, and I'm going to do that very briefly. So several facts, which primarily refer to the fact that no police structure in BiH has participated in this in any way, and this is very indicative. What leaves itself in the shadow of this case, because we know that in many cases, when EUFOR soldiers are hired, etc. be present, let's say conditionally as they say local police, if for nothing else, because they can, possibly such cases testify that there has been no excess of the use of weapons or abuse. So here's the first indicative thing. 107 The second thing also says that EUFOR is from the police administration report, so the office of police commissioner Sarajevo says that a report has been submitted to EUFOR that there are warrants and it is not disputed, but it is a controversial thing else. We, in response to a parliamentary question here, which was asked that practically no prosecutor's office had given EUFOR an arrest warrant, but had reported that there were charges, therefore, there was no warrant and that was also a very indicative engagement or initially engaged EUFOR. However, in all these reports there are several really illogical things to be warned about. In fact, if we look at the State Agency for Investigation and Protection report one sentence reads this - he also said that police officers of this agency, it is thought, are members of the meaning of EUFORA, or Mr Demetrio Kondolo has warned. So, he said, police officers of the agency are expecting a job in obtaining the necessary documents from the competent judicial authorities. In addition to a search warrant, a search warrant to deprive freedom and a solution to the detention of the person. Be careful, after the case, so after killing and wounding, at a later meeting with representatives of the state agency, EUFORA is asking SIPE to provide documentation, or justification for this action. Of course, a series of conclusions can now be produced from the fact that it is fully aware that the authorisation has been exceeded and that this is all to be covered by the very suspicious or controversial circumstances of the legitimacy of the implementation of this action. It is also here, at the end of the report, it is said that officials of this agency did not participate in planning to take action to deprive them of their freedom. Also in the reports of the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska, i.e. the Director of Police, if you look at it, you can see that Mr. Frančesko Kapone, whose name I don't, of course, I don't have any connection with any names, therefore, that Mr. Kapone here has informed the police director and the police of Republika Srpska that his wife is in the house of the suspect and that there is a possibility that she will shoot. Wife! And then after that, the workers said, the Rogatica police station entered the yard and ten meters from home, so ten meters from home noticed a female, unfortunately it was then already a corpse, or a dead female. So, not in the house, but ten meters from the house in the yard. Furthermore, if this one is analysed here, say on page four, it is said that Abazović Nada died of injuries sustained by firearms, a firearm shot in the back area. My lords, in the wild west, the shooting in the back was known what character it had. And shooting a woman in the back probably shouldn't, this guy talking about how it can have a character without talking about the courage of those who have committed such an act. I have listed only a few here of course if the material can be read yet much illogicality, but I have cited a few as an example of how it is possible that police forces without co-operation with structures within Bosnia and Herzegovina are producing a problem with far-reaching consequences. What is sadder is the fact that there is no obligation to report to Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities on the findings of an investigation they will carry out, and I now suspect that they will execute countries from which they originate, encourage these forces. 108 That's why I want to believe that the investigation that our organs are doing, if anything else, will determine what's true. No matter what we can't do, I'm afraid we can't do anything to make those who've affected a case like this fit in front of any court on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24210	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely support what Mr. Novaković was saying. And so we talked about the Starovlah family, about the priests, and now unfortunately we talk about Abazović and that story we tell ourselves within Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's like a deaf room to you. Nothing comes out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those who shot a child in the back and a woman in the back for the state and their officers who shot before they saw the target and recognized it, it's known how the SWAT team is doing their own personal shame. And we'd have to process ourselves so it doesn't happen. And let me cut it short. We've really talked about this a lot. The mixed club Professor Kunić, Mr Blagojević and I, we propose a conclusion with A and B here is this third. And this is - The House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH to provide diplomatic information on the tragedy in the Abazović family to relevant international institutions and so on. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, NATO to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union. The BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs undertake to continuously monitor the activities of the above-mentioned international institutions in a concrete case and inform the House on a timely basis. I ask the Service to deliver this proposal to the College, please, and I think we should lift this above Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're talking to Euro-Atlantic integration, and at the same time we don't have that much knowledge, so we're asking them something. Let's just say, gentlemen, you do that and honorably, is that some kind of code? Well, they don't have to do anything, but it's their shame when we come and become those members, so we can ask some questions and then we won't be some colitis like they're looking at us right now where they're pushing before the trigger, but see who's in front of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24212	I thank Mr. Gligorić. I don't have any more logs. I am, I will now put on the Commission's first conclusion, and then a proposal for conclusions delivered by Mr Gligorić, Kunić and Blagojević. Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24213	Complementary, even before we plead when the hunt is forbidden and the animals must not be killed. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24214	Okay, thank you, Mr. Kunić. The conclusion that you delivered predicted that the information we would receive from the Council of Ministers would then be forwarded to diplomatic channels. And it is your conclusion compatible, but it can only be considered when we win, when these two conclusions are realized. So here's what we've explained. And I think that we can, as a whole, now make these three proposals a conclusion, of three parts of the conclusion. I am putting in a good report by the Commission with this conclusion that we have now heard from Mr Gligorić for clarification. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. I agree that with 29 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, we accepted these conclusions from the commission and this conclusion by Mr Gligorić, Kunić and Blagojević. Thank you very much. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina You got that information, you also got the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Commission proposes to the House on its opinion that information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2005 be adopted in addition to what was stated in the Commission's opinion. Here I welcome the chief prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Marinko Jurčević and my associates, and I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24216	Mr. Chairman, I would like before the debate, please, we had one conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that before this session of the House of Representatives, a report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, in which some questions would be answered, but also the prosecutor's position on some of the suggestions given on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Since I didn't get it by now, I'd really like to know if there is, or if there isn't, then he'd have reported for the discussion, or if he hadn't, he'd continue to discuss this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24217	...all information on the prosecution's work here that we have in the materials. I don't know, I'm afraid I didn't understand. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24218	On the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we have considered this report one conclusion which we asked the Prosecutor's Office to ask some questions at the Commission's meeting itself to deliver an answer as well as an opinion on some views on the Commission before the House's meeting. Since I'm saying I didn't find it on the table-- I'm asking if the D.A. did it or not? It didn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24219	I'll give it to you, Mr. Novaković. Thank you. I'll give my word, I'll give my word to the representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecution. Please, if you can get a phone booth for a stenogram, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24220	BiH Good afternoon, I welcome you. I'm the Secretary of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the commission's opinion Thursday, which was held here in the Parliamentary Assembly on Thursday, I, the commission, have reached certain conclusions regarding the supplementation and information. However, since it was a short time, because we were then talking about this very short time of 18 we received in two days calls for the Constitutional and Legal Commission and for this, Parliamentary Assembly. We haven't been able to get these questions out of our minds in writing because it's the prosecution's position. I can read to you this time, orally, and then, after that, write-offs are delivered to everyone, this representative, to the MP. First of all, the issue was about the structure of the case, data on the 2005 verdicts that were classified by criminal acts. If it suits you, I can read it like this, I'm telling you it's not a written release because it's been a very short time, we've had this, this session, actually, I've been in a session with this, the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Then there was the next professional education of prosecutors. We took out all the seminars that the prosecutors, the ones that attended, because the commission said that the part that's working in that, the education of prosecutors is pretty squirm, so since, we took out all the seminars and I'm telling you, it's one and a job and it's got to be done in writing. Then, concerning the views, the one on the prosecution's views on one or two delegates to the Constitutional and Legal Commission on these property legal requirements, which have been resolved by the judges of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've brought up a part of the information on the work. However, more detailed views, this from the beginning of the prosecution's work from 2003 to today, what interests us, uh, delegates of this position-law committee and this from, and these parts of the Guilt Agreement, I really apologize, will take us two more days to get this letter out of all the delegates. Here I think you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24221	Thank you very much. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24222	BiH Only, I apologize. Regarding this proposal, the Constitutional and Legal Commission's delegates are here to, as far as the two proposed measures are concerned - the chief prosecutor of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor General Mr Jurčević is concerned, so if there are any more, concerning the measures of the issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24223	Okay. Thank you. We now have a few registered agents. You can sit here, this one, if necessary. The first one answered the word Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24224	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, MPs, distinguished guests. I welcome Mr. Jurčević's chief prosecutor. I think that since the Ustavo Legal Commission in its report has asked for an answer, I think we will not lose anything if we give the prosecution the necessary time to supplement this report in writing and adopt it at the next, or at one of the next sessions. So this report is not bound by a deadline, but it's good to get that information to adopt it, to have delayed reports. It is very difficult to follow what is written and something that could be displayed orally. So we're adopting a written report. I think we would now avoid asking different questions to the Attorney General, the Prosecutor's Office, opening different dilemmas and that it is best to act in accordance with the Constitutional and Legal Committee's conclusion. And I think it's Bosnia and Herzegovina's most elegant prosecution. So that those questions that have been asked provide answers as part of the updated report, and we will then enter into that report. Anything else, it seems to me that he's going to open up the debate and eventually we're going to come back to asking for it to be delivered to the registered form. So I think it would shorten this time so we don't just open up further discussions unless there's a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24225	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24226	Well, Mr. Chairman, I think Mr. Špirić has made one too many proposals, so we should get what was asked for in writing by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and only then can we discuss this. And I have to say, I'm not even ready to talk to you today. What I've been looking for here and I want to underline, given that this is the Secretary of the Prosecutor's Office's case, namely, a proposal for a measure under regular number two that is very controversial to me, especially the part that speaks of the establishment of a hi-archical set-up of the Prosecutor's Office, so I'm asking the D.A.'s office to deliver in that information, therefore, whether this is the prosecutor's position or the prosecutor's position. So, I want to make it clear to you that this is the prosecutor's position, the motion for action or the prosecutor's position. Thank you. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24227	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligorić, well, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24228	I agree with that, with this opinion of the commission, which is what colleague Špirić specifically spoke of, but I would only like to draw, please. Since we've had a lot of times, and we're going to have another very quick debate about our law to take away and rob property. I'd just like to draw one more time, since the D.A.'s people are sitting here, on this part that the Commission asked me to do, but I find it very important to draw it again, that, if we were given a pretty precise opportunity, the data that they're actually talking about, that we're being evaluated, not only with statistics on how much we've been taken away from the property, but that we're given a proper assessment of whether it's a mechanism that's enough. Because the first and second times when one is rejected to our law, both times it's said not to worry, because we've certainly just set it up, so it goes, so it's taken, etc. Since it's not as optimistic as we've been saying, which doesn't mean the D.A. isn't doing his job, that maybe they don't have mechanisms, I don't know. But I would just ask that you give a special, uh, review of that particular segment, because very soon we will have that law of ours on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24229	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24230	Thank you. We said on the Constitutional and Legal Committee to Mrs Filipović a few typical things that should be complemented in the Report. And since we don't have these supplements, I agree with what Professor Špirić said and Mr. Novaković to postpone it for the next session. And then it'll be easier for us. But one more time, what Mr. Lagumdžija said about the seized assets and those financial assets and those effects. In his own time, Professor Lagumdžija spoke in this House about these effects in the Western countries, the countries of the European Union, and since one part, or the assembly majority here, resists the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property, arguing that we can provide and achieve this in the institutions of the system. Then it's really septomatic why there's no such data in the report. If this is possible in the institutions of the system, then let's see what these effects are in the budget, given that in Western countries in one Sweden and the other, they cost over 500 million. What about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know how it is? And please, this measure of two also, Mr. Novaković noted this well, to see whose attitude it is, etc., since something that is unconstitutional is proposed. No, the problem is when institutions in the system formed under the Constitution and the law propose an unconstitutional solution. Even if it comes from the judiciary, it means from the D.A.'s office as part of the justice system, then it's people's problem. Then whoever says that, does someone tell you, strangers some, who they are, etc.? And I've had a lot of objections there and I just want to end up with this, when it comes to foreigners, party work in the prosecution, individually or when they're in court criticizing, it's pressures, their work 113, etc. They are here, there, Mr Ašdaun said -- they came at the invitation of BiH authorities. Who invited them? And he says because they're less corrupt, but less corrupt. So that's when they said ours was completely corrupt. It's in translation like that. And then let's see what that foreign relationship is, and if that's what he taught them, or if they dictate some things out there, and you have a problem, keep people in custody because you have no evidence and you violate human rights. You have no right to do that. And give these things, the big things in this country what you're doing to speak frankly, precisely and precisely. That's what you're asked to do, not to whisper inside the D.A.'s office some things that are very problematic. I'll talk about it wider when the full report comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24231	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24232	I'm not sure if we're having a debate in the report, or if we're stuck on the proposal Mr. Špirić made. It's taking a little longer, so here's a few sentences for me to say. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the truth of the matter, has accepted the suggestion that this report be complemented by a kind of data that is not here. And there's no dispute. And it's true that we had a deal, even though that kind of data was not common to this report at the time. We've been looking for some more detailed analysis, by the structure of the case, type, works, etc., but here's the deal we made, and unfortunately the prosecution didn't manage to complete it by today's session and I have no counter arguments that we're not discussing today. But to make other members of the House familiar, we didn't all have the same opinion about these initiatives and attitude 2 and the vertical connection of prosecutors, further upgrades, standards, etc. There are members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who have advocated it. And of course we'll discuss it when the time comes, right? Anyway, I support it, because that's how we decided to postpone the debate, so we'll discuss it when the report is completed, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24233	If he supports this proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24234	I also support the motion for a postponement, but I would say that there has been a tendency in joint institutions to give us professional first-judgmental, and some administrative authorities are proposing amendments to constitutional regulations. They're actually looking for changes. It's a matter of politics. I'm asking you to get involved in political matters. This is now being done by the High Court Prosecutor's Council -- which says the finances should be transferred to joint institutions. It's not a matter of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it's a matter of politics. And when the policy of such a matter is settled then the High Judicial Union will be able to work on it, and we are not mixed by the professional authorities to propose changes because they are not authorized to do so. They're obliged to apply regulations. Because it's a tendency, not only was it obtained from the prosecution but it was obtained from other institutions and we had a hearing yesterday at the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, also a similar case where we rejected the report, returned 114 reports because these things are not competent. They are not the working bodies responsible for this if politics has not given its consent. Another thing I'd like to say. When these things are put on the agenda, please, these are very important things and must be put somewhere forward on the agenda, not at the end of the session. These things require a thorough debate. Especially when it comes to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So these are the things we want, we want them to really work. And get that segment under the policy. But that they don't do politics themselves, they have a policy that sets goals, and the legal one then goes with regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24235	Thank you very much. Now I've got two more reported. Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Ćeman. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24236	So respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor General of the Prosecutor General of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2005 in accordance with the relevant law. So this is the chief prosecutor's information. It writes to you immediately in the opening part of the first page by removing all possible dilemmas about whose information this is, and the prosecution is the chief prosecutor by law and he is therefore the Prosecutor's Office at the moment because that is how it should simply be understood and known. As far as I'm concerned, I can vote for this information right now. I think the information is content enough, that it contains everything that a report on the work of such a significant institution in the area of the judicial authority should contain, and here I think I have some experience in this type of report. And I think our commission, I'm sorry that I wasn't in a situation to be present at the Commission's session, has been demanding some things that may not be common to the content of this kind of information. I'm up, I know many of you won't agree with me with my opinion, but I got up first because of the stenogram, so let's keep a record of this opinion. As regards this disputed, under the terms of the proposal for a measure referred to in point 2 of the proposal, that measures should be encouraged to amend the legal registration in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to strengthen the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a representative of the Prosecutor's Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the state level in all flows of European and regional integration, with the continued strengthening of prosecutorial organisations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the establishment of a hierarchical organised composition of the Prosecutor's Office. I understand this point as a point that the future organisation of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina sees in line with European and regional integrations, and I don't think this point has been memorized. Be assured that we are currently only in one phase of reforming the judicial authority system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and public prosecutorial, or prosecutorial ordnances, and that we will still have many measures, including in this Parliament, and those measures which are legitimate in nature, so that our country has a judiciary in line with European standards, if we want to go towards European institutions, towards membership in them, and we all here have unanimously decided that we want to do so. 115 I understand this provision in this context, and it is neither strange nor illogical to me at all, nor opposed to any legal act and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The chief prosecutor, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have the right to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, However, this information, it is therefore subject to a vote here in Parliament and we will, of course, declare that since the Constitutional and Legal Commission has nevertheless requested certain information, that the chief prosecutor has embarked on giving a reply at the request of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, regardless of which I am ready to support this text immediately today. Here I can accept Mr Špirić's proposal that the Prosecutor's Office, I say, has been engaged in giving answers to the questions asked, completes the process of giving answers and that we have this information at the next session and we declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24237	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24238	Thank you very much. I didn't want to speak on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because right at the beginning, it was good for me that there was understanding and in the Prosecutor's Office to supplement simple information, but here are just two, two brief comments. First of all, I think it is quite appropriate for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to have the report completed. They are data that actually give more light on the activities of the D.A.'s office, not affecting the independence of that body in its jurisdiction, but as information, it's good that we also have that information and I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be in writing, as the mood is expressed, and a commitment if you want to deliver it to this Parliament. That's one thing. Second. Although the Commission, which you may have noted, has avoided decidingly giving a majority view of this contested proposal two of the conclusions. This is exactly what Beriz was saying was that different views were, but I'm just saying, even though we're not still talking about this report in, I'm in line with those who think it's not just politics. Executive bodies, or bodies such as prosecutors and others, can initiate from the aspect of understanding the legal system of a particular matter, of course it is a matter of political relations and everything that affects adoption, not the adoption of the law whether or not it will accept that logic. I do not see the disputed that the Prosecutor's Office, if so, could not suggest it because it would mean their understanding of efficiency, etc., in the functioning of this significant institution. But since it's not a discussion of the report, I just got up to say these two things, and we could actually avoid this whole story today until we get this in writing and then, of course, let's discuss this, although it's certain that we'll agree that the report is quite comprehensive and that these are just some additional corrections that will actually only give more light to what this institution is doing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24239	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. I've had Mr. Kunić, since you've been on the phone with Mr. Kunić, go ahead. The word is for Mr. Jurčević. Here you go. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24240	Let me say it. I don't want to delay the session, but it's not the first time Mr. Džaferović has proposed anti-constitutional solutions. I would be very sad if you were judging me, you were a judge. He'd try all the means to avoid that fact, the one where you guys talk about a legal issue like that. A very important legal question. So is there a division of jurisdiction between entities and joint institutions? Is there an exclusive division of jurisdiction? Is there a mixed division of jurisdiction? I wouldn't want to bother this parliament. But these are facts, and this is repeated over and over again, and therefore, antipardically, you are anti-constitutional in this House. Just like he did with the DA's report. So please, there's no hierarchy between courts. Because the division of jurisdiction has been accepted. It is known what is the jurisdiction of the entity, what is the jurisdiction of the joint institutions. And there is no interference in that jurisdiction except in the common competences when the bodies of the entities perform. So that's very clear. And there's no need to keep talking here, when we change it then we'll be able to do a little differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24241	Replica Mr. Džaferović. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24242	It's sad, Mr. Kunić, to say as a professor at law school that you wouldn't want me to appear in the role of a judge in some case where you would seek legal protection. I'm not going to tell you that it would be sad to say that I've been in a situation where I've been taking some exams in college like you told me to, but just to tell you that I've been a judge for 14-15 years and nobody's ever asked for my exception. So that's what you know, and I've tried hard cases and I've made a very difficult verdict. Mr. Kunić, you and I are talking about two completely different things. I am talking about what I think is waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina on its European and Euro-Atlantic security path. I did not engage in the current assessment of the constitutional structure and competence within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if you want me to tell you, then read the provision of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that speaks of human rights, read international legal acts that speak of human rights, and then answer my question whether in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina there should be the same standard or the same standards, or the same mechanisms for protecting those standards when it comes to human rights for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When you get an answer to that question, then you will be able to further interpret the provisions of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that speak of human rights, which are as a whole intruded into the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24243	Thank you very much, since it's about replicas, they're time-limited, you know, because there's been more reporting. Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24244	I'm not replicating that, Mr. Chairman, but this time I don't want you to judge me in any way. And if you were in my exam, you'd fall out of this matter. It would absolutely go down and it would be a negative assessment, because obviously we're talking about the current legal system, we're not talking about the system of profuturo. And if the solutions are different profuturo, then we'll be able to talk. Now we're talking about a system that's existing and it's true for all of us. So the system is the one that is now valid for me and for you and for the public prosecutor and for the beggar. We're all equal before the law in equal situations. So it's the source of our disagreement. So you want something that doesn't exist. That's what you want. I understand that and accept your wish and understand your wish, but it doesn't exist. It's not a reality, it's something that could possibly be, but it'll see if it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24245	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24246	Thank you. If we're looking at pain, it hurts, and it doesn't hurt. If I'm watching Mr. Džaferović, and he says his SDAs are watching him, here's if I'm looking at it like they do, as an MP, then you can say it. An MP can bark at stars and you can hypothetically say this or what you have the right to do, you will never answer for your position and your opinion. But if you're speaking as a lawyer, then you should know when you're talking about standards, standards that on, in one country, but mechanisms, you have to distinguish it in terms. You've made a mistake in that case when you're only talking about standards without even talking about government mechanisms or some activity. And while we're at it in criminal law, by the way, to tell you the Republika Srpska entity, international standards on the protection of human rights are met when someone is in front of the judicial authorities. But for that in the state court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it means when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law, we who have passed it violates human rights so that entity law is more criminal than this at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we'll have to change it quickly, just so you know when you're talking about human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24247	The good word was asked for by Mr. Jurčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24248	Mr. President, the chairman, excuse me, distinguished, honourable MPs and MPs, allow me to welcome you on my personal behalf and on behalf of the prosecutor, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to make certain comments on your comments on the 2005 report on the work of the chief prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have really prepared myself, and in short lines I shortened this report to ten pages to give really accurate and accurate information in which you have all the information in this information. However, as far as I can see these discussions of yours are going in a completely different direction. I'm sorry, maybe I'll say something emotionally, emotionally comment, I'm not a professional 118 politician, and don't mind me, and I'm not one to get involved in politics. I only know how to work for what I've studied for school, and I've worked for many years in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I've worked in the Prosecutor's Office since 2003. As far as the Labour Report itself is concerned, it has its own methodology, its opening part and talks about the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the number of cases received, against how many persons, how many indictments, investigations, etc. But I feel like a lot of people didn't want to, or want to read it all the way. I wasn't on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because I was officially absent. She was my secretary, and as far as I can tell, she probably didn't get enough to explain enough to people on this constitutional and legal committee and to answer all the questions that were raised. Because all those answers you've set are contained, they're contained in this comprehensive information. And if you finally let me read it to you, but then I'm going to take at least ten to fifteen minutes to see that this information really contains and provides answers to all these questions. So, in addition to this information on the report in the prosecution's work, I wanted to show the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I developed the state of crime by entities and the Brcko District. The state of crime as it develops through Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I gave a total representation, a total representation of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, we made certain recommendations as well as how I, as chief prosecutor, see in which direction the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina should, should move. One of the tasks is the harmonisation of criminal law, both from both procedural law and from this point 2, point 2. Gentlemen, today, if you'll excuse me, we have four criminal laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have four laws on criminal proceedings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I won't say it's not a good solution, but I will, responsiblely I say, it's not a happy solution. It is not a happy solution to have four laws on criminal proceedings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My smallness is a member and a task force for amending and supplementing the law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I can tell you that there are all profiles in that commission from all entities and that we are all unique that we need one single law by criminal procedure. That we need one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal laws. And in that direction, at point 2, I made certain suggestions that the Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution and prosecutors should move in that direction as well. That's why we said, to encourage amendments and amendments to the law to eventually come to the conclusion of a single law in the Bosnia and Herzegovina criminal procedure. That was our goal, and that's our job. To your question, is this my personal position, or is it the position of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina - my answer is that it is my personal position and the position of all prosecutors working in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because this information I made was discussed at the D.A.'s College where all the prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina were and they all voted for this information. So after we discussed it at the College, then I delivered it to the honourable Parliament to discuss it, to discuss it. It is, therefore, not only the position of me as chief prosecutor, but all the prosecutors who work at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office. And let me say a few more sentences when it comes to continuing to move forward with the visions of watching the development of the Prosecutor's Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office have drawn up a strategic plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina's work for 2006-2009. I ask this Parliament to have that in mind, and if we want to have 119 democratically developed countries, a country that will successfully fight all types of crime, not only at the national level, but also at regional level, I kindly ask you to read this strategy and, in the context of this strategy for the development of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecution, make it possible to realise it, because that is the only way that we will be a country in line with European standards and have access to the countries of the European Community. Today, in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have employees, 48 employees. Bosnia and Herzegovina's D.A.'s budget is now around three and a half million marks. This 2010 strategy should employ 130 employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutors' Office, or 30 of which, 30 prosecutors. The budget should be around 7 to 8 million marks, with this prosecution having three extremely strong departments. Departments for Organised Crime, Economic Crime and Business, which would include more prosecutors than ever, the Department of War Crimes and the General Department, which would also deal with international legal aid issues. Another thing that I would like to turn to you, or just point out to you, is that lately, I have been talking about war crimes for a long time, and I publicly urge everyone to develop a national strategy in the fight, or at the work of war crimes cases, because public change has reflected that the burden of responsibility has fallen only to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Prosecutor's Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the way, how, how they work and how they're humanised now, I don't think we're going to be able to get that burden out, and so I suggested that a national strategy be drawn up on war crimes cases. We have now recorded how it is in the police that in the prosecutions it is at the canteen level and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have seen that our capacities are very, very limited in that direction. So in that direction, please, she will draft a work, the first draft will be written in one quarter of the day, will be delivered to all relevant structures, and I ask you to make your proposals in that direction, suggestions on how to continue to work on these war crimes cases. The strategy will try to give certain answers that are the tasks of courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina on war crimes cases, as well as on the task of all institutions within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the task of governmental, not governmental organisations, religious communities, media, written electronics, and if the strategy will therefore be delivered to the Council of Ministers and will require that the Council of Ministers adopt, if adopted, that parlament be given consideration and I ask this Parliament when it is received that it is comprehensively considered, because only in such a way we will be able to respond to this task, because it is a huge number of registered persons. I've pointed out that it's a figure of 13,000 people who are potential, I didn't say they're perpetrators of war crimes, but they're reported, and it's very hard to investigate it all, and if we don't make one of these national strategies, I think they're going to fall a heavy burden on the prosecutions and courts, and they won't be able to answer the task unless you do, you won't take part in the realization of it. I am truly sorry that such a discussion has taken place, and there is no need or reason, because Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutor's Office does not deal with policies. I responsibly argue, we are only dealing with the detection of perpetrators of criminal offences, collecting evidence for these perpetrators, processing them before the relevant court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. If there's any further questions I can do right now, I'll give it to you. Thank you. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24249	I thank the chief prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Jurčević. I think we've really got one transparent and exhaustive information from the first person in the D.A. and on the evaluation and evaluation, you'll get the word just to finish. I guess I can say one sentence one time all day. It also means what the results of the prosecution's work are, which are priorities and the need for strategies both national and regional and on the need to include a much wider spectrum of institutions and mechanisms so that some of the highest priorities in the work of the Prosecutor's Office can be realised. And quite frankly, I think that, regardless of the different tones in today's debate, that debate was also encouraging, but since we had the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as relevant committees, to provide certain information in writing, while reviewing this commission's position, without questioning any of what you said, my proposal would go on track to create a mood, right in this direction that you were looking for. And that's why it's my intervention and it'll make sure you're at the next session, or when it comes and when it does, because I think it's for all the representatives and all the clubs, I really appreciate what you just said. First Mr. Kunić, then Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24250	Yeah, and I'm one of those who advocates the efficiency of the legal system. Absolutely. So he is not effective in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are a number of indicators from the prosecution to the judiciary, etc. But the prosecution as a very important authority must stick to the existing legal system. I would remind this parliament, as well as Mr Jurčević that it is in constitutional amendments, that constitutional amendments are proposed to the judiciary's jurisdiction. That's where the D.A.'s office is meant, of course. Therefore, his findings could not be accepted – we invited all the prosecutors who agreed. Well, prosecutors aren't authorized to change the legal system. tužilac have been meeting to discuss how to make the existing legal system work better in the existing frameworks. We cannot work this way so that everyone can remember and propose changes to constitutional solutions. So where do we live? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24251	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24252	Please, I just want to say in point 2. The Commission has numbered several segments for which it has estimated that although there are traces of larger or smaller, more or less in the report itself, it is necessary to simply supplement this with some additional elements. So you do not get the picture that the Commission's position is that, on these issues mentioned here in point 2. I think you have received this written correction of the Commission's position and opinion, there is nothing in the report. Of course there is. The Commission has simply assessed that, according to some of these items, there should be more information on some, the truth is, there is nothing. So you just need to know. The Commission has assessed that, without prejudice to the report as such, it has assessed the necessary information to obtain these 121 data so that the assessment could then be, or that the debate could be, a better quality. Here's an example, just the Institute of Guilt Confession. There's really more to be said than said here. Niko one is questioning either the Institute or other matters, so simply, here I expect, or the Commission is expecting, now I am speaking on behalf of the Commission that, of course, to the extent that you are now assessing that you should and what can be delivered in terms of what is simply a document of this kind, such as the report to be completed and that a debate that will not be opened, I am sure that at least not in these matters brings the integrity of the Prosecutor's Office into question, and, of course, this might well be a good thing for this debate today, however, it has to be said that this issue of jurisdiction will just need to pay attention to this matter, but at Parliament's meeting, when we talk about this. As a result, the Commission has also avoided the definition and decision-making of this, but has only given a sign that there is a dispute in understanding here is such a measure as was proposed by the prosecutor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24253	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I think that the time has been fulfilled in substance, that we have received relevant information, that we have received relevant comments and that, based on what the Constitutional and Legal Commission in writing has provided to the prosecution in terms of further information, it does not mean questioning of information, nor on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, but on the addition to these arguments that we have received to delay the statement and the definitive relationship to this information for one of the next sessions when this supplement comes to us. Here, that's my suggestion. Can we accept it? I ask the MPs to prepare and plead on this proposal. Vote now. Thank you very much. I find that with 28 votes in favour, one against accepting this conclusion that I have suggested. I also thank the chief prosecutor, Mr. Jurčević, and the Secretary of the Prosecutor's Office, and we therefore expect to finish this job together in quality. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad.17. Annual Central Bank report for last year, 2005 The Commission for Finance and Budgets was relevant. She was reviewing this report and the report you got. The Commission adopted the Annual Central Bank Report with the next conclusion it proposes to the House. 1. The House supports efforts to establish a more effective legal framework at Bosnia and Herzegovina level that ensures the development of the financial sector and the financial market. 2. The House of Representatives supports initiatives for the urgent adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Lising Act. 122 Here is Mr. Kozarić on behalf of the Central Bank. I welcome him. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24255	Mr Chairman, distinguished colleagues in the Commission report are said to have adopted the following conclusions with the Commission's annual report. 1. The Commission and the House of Representatives shall maintain their insistence, etc. So, the Commission can adopt the conclusion that the Commission supports the moment when we adopt it, then we, too, support it, or the Commission should say – and I propose to the House of Representatives, so the essence that the report does not really mean formulated in the report in the right way. That's one thing. The second thing, I don't support conclusion 2. So I don't support conclusion 2. - The Commission and the House of Representatives support the urgent adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Lising Act. So I don't support that conclusion, and by the way, I suggest that we vote individually on these conclusions. So not to vote on the report, but to vote practically on three conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24256	I think we'll start all the time, forgive me, vote individually, because the closer the campaign, the elections, the better, here's the conclusion. Well, no, we're not arguing. Here's to making up our mind. Excuse me, Mr. Novaković, but I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24257	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24258	Well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24259	I said I suggest, I think you understand me well, so I suggest we vote individually, so. No, no, not individually as MPs, but about each conclusion separately. That's what I meant. No, no, individual voices. Of course, we didn't get along well. So the first conclusion is that we're holding the report that I am for. The second listed here as the first Commission for which I am also the third of course, which is here as the second proposal, the second position of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24260	Thank you very much. But this is about the commission's report. And I think it's such a relationship, of course, if your proposal is accepted, we can discuss it. 123 Mr. Belkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24261	Mr. Novaković and it was pretty much like that on the Finance Commission, but I answered about something else. In principle, when we have a report from the institutions, here's the D.A., here's the Central Bank, etc. It would be a good idea to always give a word first to the president of the committee who makes the report and then ask the rapporteur, or the rapporteur whether there is a need. If we had just done it, maybe a different debate would have gone. And that's why I suggest we give the governor a word to say a few sentences, or add something, as far as the plea is concerned, that we never tie the Commission's conclusions to any report. That we always keep a separate report as a report, and suggestions, conclusions, etc. that we do not condition our report with our conclusions, because the reports are nevertheless separate autonomous units that need to be particularly appreciated, and our suggestions and reports are separate and particularly stated.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24262	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. I think it was a useful intervention, by the way, that when the debate opened, I also welcomed Mr. Kozarić. Everyone can apply for a hearing. So it's free and I mean it's hard to call people, but who feels right to answer the word. Do you want Mr. Kozarić? You got it, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24263	Mr. Novaković, let's just settle this issue with a view to voting for that first conclusion and that second conclusion, and that's how it's okay. And not to, not to suffer from the fact that we're going in a package for the whole report. And we'll have an acceptable report again. Here. Well, if it's suggested, then I don't see any reason why Mr. Kozarić is going out and talking at all now, because we agree 100%. I didn't hear 'cause you're sitting close. E. Although I hear it well. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24264	Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24265	In view of the fact that there is no absolute agreement reached in the Commission on both the first and second conclusions, I believe that the first conclusion should be complemented. A decimal should also be added behind the market in line with the BiH Constitution, so that there are no misunderstandings like in interpreting this text, without this second conclusion should not be accepted. And as far as the Central Bank's Annual Report itself is concerned, it's a general impression that it's a single representative document that's been talked about a lot and that there really shouldn't be a single word more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24266	Mr. Špirić. Here you go. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24267	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Your Honor, I cannot simply understand some things. We have a report from the Central Bank. Let's get this report straight. We can accept the conclusions and we don't have to. So we can't change them now. These are the conclusions that have come to you. There are no amendments to the conclusions. I vote against a conclusion I don't like, I vote on a conclusion I like. I'm in favor of a report against conclusions. Let's vote. Don't let us stay here all night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24268	I thank Mr Špirić, but the procedure is such as to allow discussion of both the conclusions and the repairs. So we're not going to say that I can't even conclude that if this house is evaluated, I can fix it. So don't put that dimension in. We should always leave the possibility that we can all formulate our own conclusions together. We can also refuse, we can fix them, we can accept them, and that's correct. I have concluded the debate and we are first making a statement on the report, the Annual Report of the Central Bank for 2005. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. - With 26 votes in favour, without votes against and abstention, therefore the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2005 was unanimously accepted. And now we move on to a statement of conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24269	not understood is not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24270	So you see how I intervened in the direction you're proposing now, while Mr. Špirić challenged it. And you didn't want to make a statement at the time and tell Mr. Špirić you were wrong. I mean, but I know, but you're always focused on me. That's good. Okay. I therefore accept this suggestion in order to be correct, so the addition was from representative Mrs. Majkić to add words at the end of the first conclusion – and in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24271	To make this correction, the Commission proposes a House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24272	I've already made the correction in reading the conclusions, because the Home Secretary is preparing it very correctly and I'm going to read that conclusion now. So the House of Representatives supports, not the Commission now, the House of Representatives supports efforts to establish a more effective legal framework at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which 125 ensures the development of the financial sector and the financial market in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm putting this first conclusion to the statement. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. A total of 28.1 against, no abstentions. I find that we have accepted, that the House of Representatives has accepted this first conclusion. We move to a statement on a second conclusion defining that the House of Representatives supports an initiative for the hasty adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Lising Act. Please plead. Vote now. So we have the general majority. We don't have an entity. Can we agree? Okay. So I suggest we plead as anything today in the second round. I ask those MPs who are against this conclusion to prepare themselves. Vote now. Okay, we have requests for a re-election. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So 2/3 is against RS and this conclusion has not received the required majority, a passage in the second round of voting. So I realize that we have completed this item of the agenda with the adoption of the report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005 and the first conclusion proposed by the Commission in addition. Mr. Križanović, please. Did you want a word? Okay. Thank you very much. We're done with the 17th point, moving to 18. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24273	Thank you, Chairman, Since we've already been in, we've been working for 10 hours, and since it's already been scheduled, we agreed to have a debate on the 24th after plenary session of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since we've already agreed that after the 24th plenaran we're going to have a debate on the effects of VAT I suggest we continue with these remaining points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24274	Mr. Križanović, we heard the suggestion. I'll just let you know that the College has scheduled only one item on the agenda for 24. My proposal as chairman is to continue the ratification work and we have other obligations and I think we should finish. The sessions aren't common and let's all make a contribution to being rational and get this over with tonight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24275	There's a question. 126
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24276	Well, here's the suggestion, Jozo. I'll, I suggested we do the same. So you're the president. If you want me to put my proposal to a vote. Well, that's why I'm saying it. Let's go to the 18th point, that's Ad.18. Report on business of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office 2005 You've got the report. The Commission unanimously adopted the report and the Commission also proposed two conclusions. The House of Representatives suggests to the Council of Ministers to provide the necessary funds for the payment of the accommodation space of the Audit Office to enable the institution to act fully and efficiently and the House of Representatives to support the efforts of the Office for the Review of Learning towards the establishment of an audit of efficiency, impact, yes. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24278	Mr. Chairman, I have business intervention, I'm not going to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24279	Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24280	I made a concrete and correct proposal and I'd like to make a statement about it. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24281	I'm opening a debate on this proposal concerning the Office's audit, and then we'll determine according to your proposal. There's no record of a hearing. Mrs. Milićević did hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24282	Just for a little while, Mr. Raguž. I mean, apro for what was just called. The Commission therefore adopted a report on the business of the Office for Audit with a proposal for these two conclusions. Why is the Commission and the House of Representatives standing here? Therefore, if the House did not adopt this, it would remain the Commission's conclusion. It means because it can't be killed that the Commission adopted it. That's what this is about. So that's why this formulation stands for the Commission and the House of Representatives. And I suggest we make a statement about this and say that the Audit Office has a quality report. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24283	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24284	And I will support the report in due course that I have the reserve that it is possible for this audit office to carry out an impact review in most of the jurisdiction where it has. So I have a backup on this one, but I'll back it up, so I'm not making it any more complicated, I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24285	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. First, I propose that we make a statement on the Office's report on the business of the Office for the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. I agree that we unanimously accepted the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2005. I would like to put these two conclusions forward. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. I read them. I've read them before. So the House of Representatives suggests the Council of Ministers to ensure, these are the proposals set out by the Commission and we now formulate them in the House's proposals, from the means to ensure this audit in the direction of setting up an impact review. Please prepare. Vote now. I find that with 27 votes for, without votes against, two abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we accept these two conclusions. And since it was an intervention within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Križanović, you heard the proposal I made as chairman, I am now putting Mr. Križanović on the plea. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So the proposal doesn't have the necessary majority. We're going back to work. We're going to the 19th agenda, that's Ad.19. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2005 Election Commission's work The report was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which proposed that an Electoral Commission report be adopted with the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24287	The report also highly assessed this report that, the Electoral Commission, not to repeat itself, and that it would be a haven and this home to prepare the consolidated text of the Electoral Law, which is written in the report and to check, and it seems that one Law on Amendments of the Ibor Law has been declared by the High Representative, did not confirm it, in order to be prepared for the consolidated text to be prepared, to be confirmed, so that we have everything in the consolidated text behind which this parliamentary assembly stood. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24288	What do you suggest now, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24289	I suggest you accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24290	Okay. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. I propose that we make a statement on the 2005 report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm putting on a plea. Stand by. Vote now. - I konstatirati that we unanimously adopted the report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005. Thank you very much. We're going to the 20th agenda, that's Ad.20. Report on the text of the Personal Data Protection Act You got the report. The text of the Law was found to be in line with the adoption of seven amendments. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. So before I make a statement on this text, I find that we have finished this previous section on the report with the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. [[Common discussion]] I mean, that's what I'm talking about. So now we're at the adoption of the report on the alignment of the text of the Personal Data Protection Act. Stand by. Vote now. - I konstatirati that with 29 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we unanimously accepted the report on the alignment of the text of the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you very much. 129 We move to the 21st point of the agenda, that's Ad.21. Proposal for a concession policy document in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24293	Thank you. I really don't have the inspiration to talk about the document itself. It contains so many general principles, principles, commitment, etc., but I really need to remind us of something here. A set of concession laws was passed in 2002. The Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives in this meeting, appointed members of the Commission, the State Commission for concessions. Meanwhile, entity law, entity concessions are in full effect. They were formed, or were brought into the Federation cantonal, or county law on concessions and established commissions granting concessions. The job's been going on for four years. We are in the middle of 2006, and we have a document on general principles, general policy, general commitment, etc. I really don't know what to say? I have absolutely nothing, I'm not discussing the document, but 4.5 years to get a document that talks about general principles, I'm just wondering when the Commission is going to start awarding concessions? Or will it even require more engagements in the affairs of such a species, because in the meantime entities, namely the Federation and the cantons, or the county, will all that can be given under concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24294	I thank Mrs. Arza Hadžiahmetović. He was Mr. Novaković, so Mr. Gligorić. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24295	I thank Mr. Chairman, I did not take politics as a race to put something first as a matter of concession in my jurisdiction. So that's not how I understood this policy -- that entity and state commissions will be kidnapped, which is whose jurisdiction, or who will deal with it first in the way that, of course, the esteemed colleague of Azra said. 130 So, right after her discussion I see that I was right on the Commission when I had one paragraph, or the position of this policy of this document was questionable. In the opening part, in paragraph 1, 2,3,4,5.6, it is said in the eighth, in the Roma sense, that the process of adopting laws at BiH level that regulate certain areas, and in the existing laws of entities where it is not processed to carry out additions in terms of regulating concessions for the area. Be careful, we have one position here, and later we have a position that says - In addition to the above mentioned, the adoption of the Law on concessions of BiH, as well as the entity laws on concessions, a legal and institutional framework for foreign and domestic concessions of investment has been set up. So we have a pretty contradictory two attitudes in this policy. On the one hand, a circled legal framework, on the other hand, the need to adopt and special regulate this area. With this in mind, in order to avoid debt, I suggest that this attitude be changed in some sense, or deleted, or deleted, or amended, so that it is said - that at the end of this paragraph the words are added - taking care of the division of jurisdiction in this area. Please, it would be extremely damaging to run a policy that would lead to a race between committees what they would do sooner in this area, especially if they were to introduce it into laws for each area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24296	Thank you very much. Who is it? Mr Gligorić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24297	Thank you. In my opinion, the first item on the document, on the policy of awarding concessions, should be the election of a new commission. That's what I think. I've been saying something today as a reason for the Council of Ministers, people work for a year, they put together 17 pages, each page costs practically 45 thousand marks. I agree with Professor... Hadžiahmetović, who says at the level of some general things, principles etc. But you see, they haven't done anything in a year, and they got that kind of money. Not to mention the details they were. I think they should be resolved first. And as far as I'm concerned, I know it won't get any support, because my policy would be an active, par-gressive, efficient, clearing up with red tape and people who don't work. But you tolerate exactly all of this the opposite, so we won't do it again. Anyway, what Mr. Novaković was saying, I also noticed it on the page. 3. this second position – if this kind of inventive change can be made to that position in terms of shared competence in this area, then it might be acceptable, that when something has been done we do not refuse and then we continue to problem it. Or unless there's a willingness to accept it, I suggest we reject this concession policy document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24298	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24299	I think that any more correct when we have situations that somehow try to get the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get some functions, to do some work, etc. in order to be more correct immediately, we will be against, because it is not in accordance with the Constitution, these are not 131 competences of the State, etc. That's exactly what you're saying. And not some story around, etc., so we'll plead no problem at all. So don't worry too much. Don't blur things out. You simply don't support that function as a state. You think entities have state property, that entities should do it. Let them do it, no problem. We vote, there's no problem. Don't think people don't understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24300	There are no more applications for the hearing. I also conclude that since this is the Council of Ministers' document, it is no longer just the Commission, I am putting this one to the statement. _______(?) There's a proposal before that. I don't see that suggestion, I don't have it, and here you go, Mr. Novaković. I mean, I have no reason to. Do you have him in writing to put him on a plea? Now I don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24302	I don't think there's any point in any document that can be a useful document we question with such an explicit attitude, I don't have it in writing. Look, I added a very simple sentence and I'll write it in 10 seconds. So, with a desire to accept the document. Look, I'm not talking here, this isn't about the report on the Commission's work, this is about
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24303	Just so we can put it to a vote, to formulate it precisely, my own intervention is only in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24304	Here, precisely, the following way. - So, in the position of the 8th Introductory Part,, please, I define - in the position of the 8th Introductory Part on page 3, here if I can and so, on page 3 at the end of the text, delete the point, place the decimal point and add the text - “By keeping an eye on the division of jurisdiction in this area” point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24305	Thank you very much. Please, I'm putting in this proposal for the Novaković Momčilo. I think he has the right to put the motion to the plea. Here you go, Mrs. Azra. Here, you've got the word. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24306	...proposal really seems too high to me. Not that I think, but I'm even convinced. The more one of the few substances regulated by law here, the problem of concessions is regulated in a set of laws of state and entity and it is very clear what the state law is talking about, as it is about the report, i.e. the State Commission document on concessions on which the state law decides, and what entity competences are regulated by entity laws on concessions. Therefore, your proposal is far too high because a package of laws was passed at the same time by state and two entities to regulate matter and divide jurisdiction in the area of concessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24307	Thank you very much. I'm obliged to put this proposal to a plea. The proposal for a supplement read by the gentleman. Here's your word. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24308	I thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer. As I said, my name is Hamed Mešanović, chairing the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions commission and just to give a few clarifications, please. The grant policy document is a legal obligation governed by Article 17(1). The law on concessions where he said the Commission was preparing a draft by means of whether the Council of Ministers is and forwarding it to parliamentary procedure and parliament adopts it. The document is the result of activities we have spent in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent ministries, with the Foreign Investments Agency for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we agreed on what I stress with the entity commissions on concessions of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their suggestions, opinions and proposals were incorporated into the document. We held seven meetings with the entity commissions on this matter. And we've made it clear as far as jurisdiction is concerned that there are no dilemmas here to interfere with the jurisdiction of one and the other committees. The more a friend, the more a lady, the more I apologize that you accept everything, the more we have a set of laws that exactly regulates jurisdiction. The responsibility of the Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the responsibility of the Commission of Republika Srpska, the competence of the Commission of the Federation, the cantonal committees and we have already held a joint commission, we hold meetings of the Joint Commission on the issue of where the concession goes well on two entities and on those other cases, and we fully have good co-operation and we have no conflict or interest or jurisdiction. We're in a member, we're on chapter 6, I'm just a little bit to find it, I apologize for saying that for these reasons this document in some parts of it is affecting the policies of the conces, the sector and the goods independently of the powers for their assignment. Because we had to process it extensively. Furthermore, I am obliged to give information that this procedure was carried out in 2002, but that only in May, in May 2005, we received appointment solutions, that we first met in June 133 months, in May, and I am sorry if it is in Banja Luka at the hotel Bosnia. We didn't get any offices, equipment, so nothing. We've been doing all this since June 1st when the Commission started to officially secure it. We have today, or already had a new year of ideal working conditions that we have created regarding these technical and other conditions. By comparison, I apologize to the MP, Mr Gligorić, but what has come here, this is only a legal obligation, because the Law on concessions says that we are delivering a document on labour policy and report to Parliament. The report on work delivered on 31 May, we delivered in accordance with the Council of Ministers' position by 15 March and the report will come here on the agenda. And that is all the Commission's obligation to contact Parliament. Except if Parliament does not require something special that we are obliged to fulfil that obligation. Other activities shall be taken into account within the framework of the Commission and in contact with the Council of Ministers. So the full normative regulation that we had to implement was harmonised, it was carried out in accordance with obtaining consent from the not knowing Office of Law, Ministry of Finance, Council of Ministers, etc. So that activity is being carried out. Furthermore, I said that already, if we had these few sessions of the joint commission, we had a couple of sessions and this commission for regular commissions, we have some self-initiative offers, etc. So, the Commission does. And there's no kidnapping from the aspect of jurisdiction. We really don't have any dispute on this issue, because the law here is decadent of what is whose jurisdiction. If there are conflicts in jurisdiction, it is more in the federal commission, because they have problems with municipalities where municipal chiefs award certain contracts, assign natural resources on the basis of the usage contract, etc. There's a real problem here. But he's getting rid of it, too, because the legal procedure is decadent and there's no problem. Furthermore, I would say that we are involved in our work, our work, our activities in all segments when it comes to concessions. Here's the thing about Corridor Vc, we attend all the meetings. We've been to these meetings about public procurement, as far as it's concerned, it's organized at the Balkan level. Next, countries
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24309	The chairman of the committee, so there will be a work report. We're focused here on the proposal for a document and please stick to it. When there's a work report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24310	Yeah, okay. We are your committee and we are prepared to work in accordance with your directives, yours, we report to you. If we're not doing it right, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24311	This has been absolutely useful to all MPs on your side. Thank you. I suggest that
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24312	Not included 134... Can the President of the Commission answer whether Mr Novaković's proposal is or is it not and why it is not acceptable?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24313	I agree with this discussion that was. He can be classified, he's not superfluous, but surely if we don't put him on, we won't lose anything at all. Because the importance of entity commissions' jurisdiction is regulated by a set of laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24314	Okay. Thank you very much. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24315	I didn't turn around, I didn't even know that the chairman of the Commission was present here, but I would like to stress again – it is not logical that Parliament in the previous session adopts the Law on concessions, that at this meeting, we are already discussing principle paper before the end of the four-year term, and that this Parliament will probably not wait for a concession under the state law to be awarded in this session. I'm not saying it's the Commission's fault, nor this Parliament, I don't address the guilt, but we're all responsible here together for why we all treat ourselves like this. I'm sorry, Mr. Gligorić, it is because when my intervention and parliamentary question were here several times and about the Corridor Vc story, etc. when, which applied to concessions, because I know the reason why the law was passed, none of you here... So I just want it to be realized that this parliament in the four-year term will probably not wait for the state commission it has appointed, I'm not saying that the commission is to blame, that the state commission it has appointed will not award a single concession in this conference and this is based on the law passed by Parliament in its previous meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24316	Thank you. The debate is closed. I think that from the clarification of the chairmanship of the commission we have received really information that this is in line with both the entity and the debate and the conclusions and the proposal of the document and I really think that here we can approach the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24317	Well, Mr. Raguž, a supplement has been proposed, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24318	Well, we're gonna vote on her sick, slow, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24319	I'll give you a warning now, Mr. Kunić. Really. Because I was just about to put that supplement on the agenda. Well, I can't, I mean it. Did I refuse to put anything on the agenda? So I asked Mom to do it in writing. If you don't know, Mr. Gligorić, then there will be a problem with the plea. 135 Can you do it again, or will you accept what Momo said? I, together you did it, and what you did together, I put on a plea, as an addition to that part that Mr. Novaković indicated, exists in the stenogram. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. We're only pleading for the supplement. Vote now. - So there's a general, not enough from the Federation entity. Can we agree? We have an alibi approach, we're gonna have to move on, but the college members' approach, to be a little critical right now. We know what the result will be, but the College is not ready to take responsibility for itself. So we're going to the second round of voting. Only those who are against the supplement that Novaković proposed are voting. I'm asking those who are against getting ready to vote. Vote now. - So there's no two-thirds against it. This supplement has been accepted. I now put forward the proposal for a policy document on the award of concessions to the BiH Declaration. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. - I konstatirati that with 30 votes for, one against, without abstention, we have accepted a proposal for a Treaty on Politics to grant concessions in BiH. Moving to point 22, Ad 22. Giving consent to ratification: I'm just asking to inform you. The Commission's position on foreign affairs, which we have informed this House of MPs that unless the applicant appears and provides a quality explanation to the Foreign Affairs Commission that this point is not placed on the agenda, i.e. delaying the declaration. And this time it happened with this sub-point -f) of the Finance Treaty between BiH and the European Investment Bank, the financing of the Railways II Project, where no one has appeared today from the Finance Minister and the Commission's view that this principle is respected, postpones a statement on this for the next session, and that the statement on all these other points is carried out today. The Commission also has a positive bet. That's what you got written about all of these other things under the dots. Then can we make a statement in the package? I ask the MPs to prepare and vote on giving consent as I have stated, so I will read when we say so. Vote now. I agree that with 29 votes in favour, with no votes against and with one abstention, we have given consent to ratification, and under 136a) of the Agreement on the Protection of Status and Access of Infrastructure in BiH and their Use between BiH and the United States, b) of the Agreement on Air Transport between BiH and the United States, c) of the Agreement on International Road Transport between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, d) the Treaty on International Implementation of Judgments in Criminal Matters between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, (e) the Treaty on Extradition between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, now f) the European Convention on Cinema Co-production of 1992. I thank you and we move on to the 23rd point, that's Ad.23. Proposal for a conclusion on the definition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24322	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I will, of course, support this conclusion. We agreed on it at the College, but I went to the College this morning, as we spoke to Mrs. Milićević to just execute technical papers for a better understanding of three words. So, be careful, this is where it is said - to provide information on the course of Bosnia and Herzegovina's definition. Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders have been defined. And here we can talk and the real point is therefore the conclusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's international agreements with neighbouring countries on borders. And that's what we're interested in. And I ask that instead of saying so – defining the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we do not make any confusion, so provide information on the course of the conclusion of international agreements with neighbours on borders. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24323	Thank you very much. Since we had a positive view of the supplements in the previous points, I think we should stay consistent and accept this supplement. 137 In addition to this addition, I put this proposal to the conclusion of the plea. Stand by. Vote now. Check the dioptria with each other and it will be a better result. - I note that, unanimously with 30 votes, we have accepted this proposal for a conclusion proposed by the Extended College to the House of Representatives, with the addition given by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Thank you very much, everyone. Moving to 24th point, that's Ad.24. Proposal for a conclusion by representative Petar Kunić in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Highway of Corridor Vc You got the text of the conclusion. I hope you got it. I place this proposal on the conclusion of Mr. Petar Kunić. I'll say it again. Representatively, the text of the conclusion reads, the proposal concludes that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers' request to approach the construction of the Law on the Construction of the Highway of the Vc. It means a plea proposal. Vote now. - I konstatirati that we unanimously accepted Petar Kunić's proposal for a conclusion regarding the adoption of the Law on the Highway of Corridor Vc. We move to the final item of the agenda of today's session, that's A.24. Proposal for a conclusion of the Mixed Club SPU – Independent MPs that you have received
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24327	We're here... the conclusion. But in order to discuss the conclusion, I need to know the extent of that conclusion and what I'm dealing with. I would ask the Proposer to provide us with material to discuss this agenda point. If that material can't ensure we postpone this point for the next session. 138
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24328	Like this. We have Mr. Ćeman, so Mr. Špirić. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24329	The proposal for these conclusions, or as you have called them, is about the debate on constitutional amendments and the vote on constitutional amendments. It is known that I was the one who supported the amendments and voted so. I must publicly say that I didn't like rhetoric about these amendments, that understanding, whether they were for or not, because there was really a qualification that was sometimes at the edge of taste, and sometimes really got in the way of any understanding of democracy. However, given that not only in this matter, but also in a number of other issues, there have been advertising parties, including individuals through the media and in other ways, I do not think it is good to bring debates into Parliament on the parties' showing of this or that issue, in fact those who were in favour or against. For that reason alone, I do not think it is good to do this in Parliament. And I said don't go into the finesse now. I didn't like rhetoric.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24330	This is about MPs, not about parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24331	I know it's about MPs, but it's about
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24332	And you have to appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24333	Let me finish, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24334	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24335	I see here, however, there has been an earlier debate on MPs, MPs who have been qualified in one way or another, so no one has asked Parliament to put them in this way, let's make a conditional statement of protection. I'm repeating my rhetoric. I don't like it. I would never be for such an approach, right away to say what I'm concerned with, but I really think it would be a precedent that would not, in the long run, contribute in the way that colleagues who have proposed this, democratisation of total relations, etc. At the very least, and I end up, in addition to those technical remarks of calling on the members of the Constitution, etc., if any commissions are to be dealt with at all, then it is not the Constitutional Legal Commission, although I am not running away from the business of this kind, if someone is qualified that these are injured, that these are human rights, then I am very pleased to think that this should be taken over by counterpart Jahić. 139
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24336	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. An apology for the intervention during the speech. Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Novaković and Mr. Avdić, Andrić, so I will apply for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24337	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, I really regret that this Parliament, when it comes to such initiatives, does not have a Commission on Design. I really do because if he was angry that the people who drew didn't get a good picture of the man, so he couldn't recognize himself in the picture, it wouldn't really be good. But if everyone could identify themselves in pictures that voted against constitutional changes, I don't really see any reason for anything. Because I'm texting, I didn't believe or see that poster, and I don't know what the text part is, what my colleague Živković said, but I absolutely agree with my colleague, Ćeman, that this way we don't bring this parliament into debate, since it's pre-election time, that there will be different things, different drawings. After all, we're not models. We're politicians, we're going to be slaughtered like a Easter egg in a pre-election campaign. And that's why I say, I'm sorry, I don't see what a competent commission could be except for a design commission. Maybe Seji Avdić didn't like the picture, because maybe I'm not, so I'm the vice president, but
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24338	They'll dobići Mr. Špirić's answer to this. Just finish it, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24339	But, please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24340	Please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24341	I don't just know if those who took the picture were looking for pictures of people. Come on, please. I really, really want to start talking right now. A proposal for a conclusion. This way, the House of Representatives publicly voices a protest against the response of the SDP and the MPs' Club in this domain to the legal and legitimate decision on the failure to adopt amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that your decision is legal and legitimate. No one questioned, so you had the right to vote against who and these for. So legal and legitimate is your decision. What about her citizens they'll say, but don't let me be here in Parliament right now. We've all told everyone what we think of the Constitution. I don't think that my attitude which was for, is more valuable than the attitude of you that was against. And that's what I said when there was an argument. Well, yes, but I beg you, come on, and therefore I ask those who have been for constitutional change not to fall for this story, because we need to keep at least the minimum of the unity achieved in order to get us into constitutional change. If we get into this debate, there's a possibility of losing it, which is why I think it's more dangerous to discuss this than not to discuss. My attitude will be, of course, negative to this conclusion, because I don't belong to the category of people who don't know how to draw a thread is my style, not my way, nor will I when I do it. But I don't think this parliament should discuss it. Thank you very much. 140
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24342	Thank you very much. I have a replica of this Mr. Špirić exhibit. So, as far as the design is concerned, since Mr. Špirić opened it, I'm going to tell you now how my Marko Leonard, when he was two years old, saw that poster. So I'm not seeing him these days, so he's with the woman who's guarding him, and he's walking around in the city that's stuck. I didn't react at all, just so you know, and I'm not going to react publicly, so it's not the point. And this little icon, a two-year-old kid, came along and looked and said, "Dear Dad Raguž and kissed me on that poster." And that's my answer to Zlatko Lagumdžija and everyone else. That's what my kids think and not to say who else thinks of me on that poster. So that's not the point. That's not the point. Here is the state of the mental spirit of those who have prepared this agreement. They still can't understand what really happened here. And unfortunately here I see that even Mr. Špirić can't understand. And I'll just take you what's most respected, or one of the most respected European Parliamentarians Mr. Freedom Socialist said, read these days on the web site about what kind of way that tried to really break through here. And that fog will become increasingly clear these days and everyone's democratic position will be legitimateized. As for those who have made this decision, so is their right, and I do not deny it to them. I'm just talking here about the way it was meant to actually create an atmosphere of lynch in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can't ignore that, it's an effect. You know. What ordinary people know, see undertakers, and of course I think he denied me etc. That's what it Yeah, yeah. Said one man a undertaker is an honorable profession. You know, he does something when something's over, and now, here, it would be possible to analyze who and what he destroyed and want to destroy. So this debate will only come to the sense of the moment when we realize that we have to respect each other with all differences and feelings and do not bring anyone's integrity into question personally or pronouncingly. I've never really brought him or brought him to anyone else. And I won't make fun of this message that's been sent. And I say to you that this message speaks more of those who sent it than of us who found ourselves on those posters. And I'm not worried at all, and I'm ready to deal with it, and let the ones who put those posters there deal with it. Thank you very much. Do we have any reports? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't go into that story, which is correct which is not correct. Of course, what suits who, how he voted, etc., because I don't think it's the subject of this conclusion. What's the subject of this conclusion is the final point of view of this conclusion. And the last position says so - For this reason, the House of Representatives obliges the Constitutional and Legal Commission to urgently discuss such a threat to human rights against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is determined according to the status of the SDP club's position in this home. Please, is it possible for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to do this? I say it's not possible. So we simply can't, I, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, have no ability to honor this conclusion. So in no version can I, this determine responsibility as a member of the Istavo-Legal Commission of the SDP Club. This could be determined by the investigative commission, if a colleague had already proposed the establishment of an investigative commission to determine that, 141 would then be a second issue. But the Constitutional and Legal Commission can't do that, I as a member of the Constitutional-Legal Commission with all due respect, even if the House brings this conclusion, I can't participate in it, I can't do this, because this is nowhere I'm allowed to do this job. So, I'm not going to talk, of course, in the tones that you've been talking about, I haven't seen those posters, they'd be alluding to Partizan because I'm a Partizan fan, but of course someone else's fan of something else, so I'm simply not able to realize this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24345	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. We have Mr. Andrić, Avdić and Živković and Mr. Križanović, Bešlagić reported. An injury to the MPs. I ask Mr. Andrić to refrain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24346	Mr. Chairman, on two occasions, I asked that I could even discuss the agenda point, to deliver this material that everyone here seems to be discussing. You have to understand that I have the right not to see anything in the city, let's say in Doboj those posters aren't glued if the posters are talked about, because it says here, in response to the SDP response. I don't know how the SDP reacted. Since you didn't let me do it on two occasions, I think you're out of the Rules of Procedure, out of the agenda at all what we're discussing. I'm not ready to continue to participate in this part of the agenda, so I'm not going to be there anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24347	So we're discussing the proposal for a conclusion that you received in writing. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone can determine how he thinks they should be. Mr. Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's the thing, I was thinking, under the second point, counseling questions ask my colleague Lagumdžija, if he can give me at least one poster, because I really don't have one. And I'd love to, leave it to my kids, and unfortunately, it's not even in my town. So if it's possible to pass and stick it there. The second comment, so we'll pay who needs it, if it really requires expenses, we'll pay and I'll pay for it in private. And that was my comment on the poster, and as for the comments on those who glued posters, I wanted to connect to a colleague, Novaković. It doesn't remind me of partisan, it reminds me of partisans and confirms the old thesis that the wolf changes hair but the miracle never does. Thank you. 142
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24349	He'll get rid of it, too. Come on. Mr. Sead Avdić is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24350	I wasn't even optimistic that we would have the strength in this home to look the truth in the eye. This isn't a pre-election campaign that we understand each other. So a month is a pre-election campaign before October. So we're not dating, we're not in the field of election campaign. Then let them do whatever they want, put them on the bandits they want, etc. But this isn't a pre-election campaign, one. Two. What an irony it is to claim that the SDP is doing one thing and the Members' Club is doing the other. And the president of that party is now at the MPs' club. Mildly said direct complicity and the creation by the MPs' club of retribution to MPs who voted against constitutional amendments. There's no dilemma, don't get used to it, I think we can fool around here with political excibism and so on. That's not the problem. But objectively, there will be a major incident tomorrow. This is undeniable, people, this is unremembered in the post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unremembered, I can see these posters as the second world war of twilight, glue, restraint, reckonings, etc. What's wrong with you people? Don't talk to us like that. If someone tries to abolize this, it's out of their minds. It's out of my mind, fellow Špirić, believe me. This is where and where the grave violation of simple rights and duties of MPs is. I count three, I count three. Take a look at the preamble of the Constitution. Read Article 2(3). Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution on the catalog of rights, human rights. Read the oath the MPs took. People, then, are they allowed to step on their feet and take revenge on their colleagues? It's unremembered. Once again, I repeat in the post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina that 16 MPs have branded themselves only because they dared to think otherwise. Well, that's for the Council of Europe, that's for the Helsinki Committee, that's for the OSC. I don't know who else. No, calm down, you two. I mean, calm down. It doesn't make any sense. Don't, I mean. Jozo, after what you have done, everything is unnecessary, and you have told everything about yourselves and what you will remain and be. You understand. Which means he's out of his mind. I agree with counterpart Novaković's final conclusion that the days, the attitude is discriminatory, can be discussed. It can be thrown out. Drop all of this, no problem, just leave this first attitude. And do we have the strength to leave the first attitude that this is no longer happening, that there is no haika, pillar of shame, public lynch, etc.itd. Don't add it anymore. And they defend it through television, defend it through information funds, and spit simply lawsuits against the SDP. Well, now, if we won't respect that either, then it's unfortunate that we don't have the strength in this house and simply judge this act. I'm telling you again, this isn't going to end so easily. Both the Council of Europe and all international institutions will learn about the behaviour of the SDP and the SDP MPs' Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Presidential House, the Socialist Institute and all other institutions in which they are. So don't let them think they can behave like this in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Don't let Lagumdžija think he can just do what he wants and what he does. vadečiti on young people as he doesn't know, he has no idea about this, it's SDP's youth. Of course. No, he's not saying that. 143
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24351	We have a replica. Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Novaković. Wrong quote, Mrs. Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24352	And since I was called, I just wanted to relax the situation a little bit. There's no need for us to get too excited, so no one disputes the right for those who are, to feel that they've been injured to launch initiatives whatever they want. But I wouldn't just make this a courtroom. It was, remember, when there was a cartoon by Pedi Ašdaun when he asked as a big demo and a gentleman to bring it to him, when he went to take it home, because he considered it part of the political colorita in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now I'm going to tell Seji a joke, and I'm going to apologize, so apro for that joke-- the little Perica in class draws an ugly thing, and now the teacher calls him, says call your father. And a man came and said what it was, so he says this one drew a man's full organ. So he says, ma'am, that's why you invited me. Well, he drew a woman on the tarab when I didn't break it manly. So let's not make this a drawing circus. I ask you to preserve the dignity and those who voted both for and against ending this story. It's almost certain that I don't dispute it that people can find themselves hurt. I'm saying, it's not me or the political party, but you're not dealing with this conclusion, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24353	I really thought that Mr. Špirić after the interventions of others, at least this cynicism could correct, but obviously not that part meant anything, it ended up on it. Okay, that's everybody's right. We have a replica of Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24354	I understand, of course, my colleagues feel uncomfortable and I think if it was like this, it was ugly. But please. Mr. Avdić's tone now reminds me of a public debate held on this floor, that is, a lower floor. Mr. Avdić, were you at a public hearing? Have you heard the message to those who vote for constitutional amendments? I think she was much worse than the message to those who voted against the Constitution here. Much worse. Believe me, at that constitutional hearing, it's very ugly, either at that time. So I don't think we should discuss this here or that, like I don't think we should discuss this either. But speaking of MPs. Please, today's number of Daily Avaz, Mr. Nijaz Duraković, an MP in this house, wrote quite nicely, this one wrote, or said on the stands in Gorazd. I ask you SDA and SDP to make alliances with the Chetniks of the worst Boban Ustashas, and we are traitors and undertakers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, that's also a statement from an MP that is nothing less, less dangerous than a statement about that MP and these other people. I'm just saying for this very reason that we don't have to go in as Home to this story, I'm asking you not to go in as Home to this story, and of course that 144 political sluts. It'll probably take a while to figure out what kind of conclusion they're making here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24355	Business, correction of the wrong alleged Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24356	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I really didn't get a chance to see these posters except in the paper. And I don't really want to watch, but I want to tell you this. I had a chance to see posters that no one said a word about two years ago. It said nice, they sold the Maršalka and you had pictures of the MPs and the name and last name, just missing the number of the phone. I happened here in Parliament, I heard these, someone sent a driver and brought him out of town, and then nobody said a word. The party, sold to Maršalka, was a campus student, and postered the pictures of MPs who supported it, I think the US embassy is the exception to part of the land, what was it. I was expecting some kind of reaction back then. I don't even know who printed those posters today, but I saw what they looked like. I mean, it's not true that this is a unique example in post-dayton that someone is crying about making a decision. So this is me knowing for the second time that this is happening, and that's why Mr. Avdić, so this isn't the first time, this is the second time I've known. That's what I fix in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24357	Here, thank you very much. Mr. Žilić, then Mr. Križanović and Mr. Bešlagić. It's the order of applications. Here you go, Mr. Žilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24358	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues, two, three words and I say only this one. Not only is the poster that was published, that if it were normal, the prosecutor should react to such things and not be able to place posters about someone without the prosecutor's consent and examine what the cause is, etc. But here, there's no such thing in that country to test who's beautiful, in what way, what's the point of all this. But it wasn't just me through the poster, I had far greater consequences than that poster. Through Free Bosnia, 60 minutes and some other media. So it goes to the family, I got 1,300 telegrams of support, I could do the opposite. I even had the support where some of my good friends came to me who said, what we should do for such gravediggers as they called us gravediggers. No wonder when revenge happens for revenge, be careful. So I ask you in this House for you democracies we do not do things beyond democracy. Because it'll come in a very dangerous round someday. Look, when this one, we all have kids and sons and mature guys who can't stand people like that who can do anything, etc., because of some people who want to achieve their political goals at all costs. If Parliament has made a decision, as it has made, it is necessary to present it, it is such a decision and that is the end. He's got a political tribune, now he's gonna start a political fight, so go ahead and fight for your political market. But this way, look out, my family came to me. And I don't know 145 how I'm gonna feel sorry for some people. They tried to put a worm in the family to shake the family because of that sort of thing. I ask you for democracy to seriously think about it, because everyone can do it, and it can be far, far greater consequences to be countered if this keeps working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24359	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24360	We can switch.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24361	Let's just turn around a little bit. Jozo will be the last, I mean behind me. I want to respect order.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24362	If you guys make a deal at the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24363	First dear friends, if they put someone on posters and spit on someone, it's me. The other thing is, the posters were in Sarajevo, there's no water in Tuzla Selim, and I'm in Tuzla, the money was taken from me, so we didn't have any water, so we didn't have anything. So it's different names of the inscriptions, to posters that I'm a war criminal. But I always remember Tunja Filipović, who told a story like this. - I'm going down the street and I'm meeting a girl. And she asks if you're Tunjo Filipović, and he says, "I am," and she tells me and spits and says, "What did you do?" He says nothing. I'm a politician. He wipes himself out and moves on. Gentlemen, I agree, delicious, tasteless, can't, can't, but here's what I assume is a political struggle. Another thing that absolutely doesn't apply to me right here. Says the MPs' club. Well, if I'd done something, maybe you'd have made it worse. I don't usually make it worse. I've decided, I don't want negative sent energy, and I'm caught up in these posters and it's not a club, and you can't judge the club. If you want, sue the commissions, all the courts and all the others to sue. You have that right, and don't bring you into Parliament something that's happening to us, here's what's been said when the Maršalka was sold the pictures, so I in the picture, as many of us as there were, Duraković, me and the others in the picture were so, well, nothing. And Špirić, but good. And third thing, we're all the same. Basically, we're all against it and we're all the same. What Novaković read now is just interested in who Boban's Ustasha is and who the Chetniks are. And that's the same thing, I never, look out, it's the MPs said. Here we are now compared to the Chetniks and Ustashas, man of God. So I'm talking about negative conjutation. However, I do not think that the debate on these matters should be brought into Parliament. Anything to be asked, if human rights are violated, if injured, the court may have other institutions, commissions, I don't know, some third, fourth. But I'm not up for that being here. For first of all, I as an apostle and I as a representative in the House, me, and Jozo, and Zlatko, did not do it. So, please, let the vote be made on the conclusion, I'm against the conclusion. I am for fair, but then to be fair at all levels. At all levels, let's be fair. Because whoever's thinking about politics and always caressing him, then he better get ready not to be in politics. I also read about the conflict today, and I think it's something in Oxygen, so if that's the case, then we'll all ask that, yes, let's go here in the debate, and then Parliament will open up in the debate of our relations, and time will go the way it goes. 146 I promise you, and I say to you, I will not spread negative energy, what is done in the SDP, sometimes I don't agree with the actions of the Youth Forum. No Niko's asking me, and I don't want to know about these things. I'm a member of the board, we don't discuss these things if they're out, it's out for Pedi, there's still gonna be more pictures, what I know. I'm not going to participate in creating that painting. I will only try to participate in the creation of good things from both the SDP and this Parliament and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24364	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24366	Please, let's give it a chance for whoever else wants to discuss it and listen to us and bring the end of today's session. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24367	First of all, I would like to say that I am disappointed with Parliament's willingness to discuss today's proposal for a conclusion. Like agenda dots. I'm not surprised by my colleague Avdić for launching this proposal, but I'm a little disappointed by some colleagues who don't judge objective things. We hereby bring to Parliament the trial of one party. I'm going to be very disappointed if you believe that Selim and I are, here we are now, the two of us, that we've been cremating and taking part in it. It took two days to discuss constitutional changes here. I never once called those who disagreed with what I represented, as they called themselves even patriots, I didn't want to provoke it either. But the fact is that we have entered the debate with two fronts. One we were some traitors and some patriots. And now my colleague Sejo is trying to keep that story on the subject. I'm really disappointed with our willingness to discuss the issues that we have, and when they come to debate a serious issue that life means to this country, there's no debate. We shoot ourselves at the adoption of agendas and such served topics. Please, what counterpart Novaković said, the last paragraph, which is the purpose of all that is said here, is called here to some members of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure. It was still to be called to the Law on a public utility company, as gravediggers are mentioned there. You see, this is an invitation to a lynch actually a representative of the SDP in this House. It's non-legislative, that's the point. I'm now asking my colleague Avdić, here you are a colleague of that commission who needs to examine this. What would you recommend when it comes to future status, beware of the status, position and responsibility of the SDP club in this home? What would you recommend, I accept here's the definition, I vote for it. I've never been in a position to defend my actions. But I won't now. But I'll be disappointed if you think we're involved. If anyone thinks he's hurt, offended, damaged, he's got a court. That's where the SDP stands in the poster signature. It is known who represents 147 responsible for the SDP, you judge the SDP. What do we want to discuss here? You'll be working on the position, status and responsibility of me as a representative of this house. Get out of the rope business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24368	I thank Mr. Križanović. We have two replicas. One Mrs. Sopta, the other Mr. Sead Avdić. Mr. Avdić picked up earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24369	I apologize, this one in my apology for both intonation and one emotional charge for this. Not personal, not because my sons saw it, or I don't know what, it doesn't matter at all. It is important that it must be sanctioned or faced with the non-acceptation of organised, skillfully designed, simply planned action to deal with political inexperiences in this House. Sixteen people hanged on a pillar of strategy, sixteen MPs, it's not just that simple, sixteen MPs. Which means you can't compare it to Dr Nijaz Duraković's own stand, it's nonsense. What comparison? Well, we each have the right to say whatever he wants and what he thinks. Let's replicate, do what you want, but it has nothing to do with this, it's a replacement of thesis totally. Number one. Two. Individual cases, so I can't identify myself with this case. Secondly, of course not, I felt that the SDP club would be built on this. As much as it could be built up and considered that the Club didn't participate in it, the Club wanted no accomplice to this unholy project. An accomplice. Because the president of that party sits among them here. And don't make us believe you have nothing to do with all this SDP stuff. Well, that would be really funny. I'm sorry, it would be really funny. It'd be really funny, don't, we're not little kids. And finally, my colleague Križanović, I can't believe that you, to speak, are called upon by some members of the Constitution. It's like it's just some happy notebook. The constitution is a stubborn document. Well, yes, that's the only possible reference both to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. An oath that binds you to behavior. I'm asking my colleague Križanović, didn't he feel the moral need to say - I'm building on my party's move, which everyone would do? Didn't he feel the need to say that for the sake of the people and their colleagues sitting here in Parliament? Isn't that really Dr. Crescent? The Lagumdžija didn't feel like telling people. We're getting lost, what young people are going to throw it away, leave it alone, go either way, etc., etc. We've even been sitting here for four years in the Presidential House, hey, building one relationship, before a test of tolerance for mutual respect and harmony of work in this House of Representatives. This is really a shock to me, I can't figure it out. I've been to that party. How much Jozo deserves, I am also responsible for the SDP, its strengthening and growth, etc. And it's not easy for me to say these words. I can't believe this came from a political family that I belonged to for 15 years, which I've built honestly to end with all the criteria of democratisation of the Bosnian Hercegovina society and the democratisation of one party, internal democratisation. Okay, that's right. And what would you recommend in the end, yes, of course not, that's controversial. 148 In the Rules of Procedure, Article 10 speaks, an anology can be drawn but every parliament in every normal civilised state to this reaction, not one club, but one party whose club is participating in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina would certainly be sanctioned for a month, two, three days with the peace of parliamentary rights and duties. I know, I know, I understand everything to my colleague Novaković. So I am deeply disappointed with the response and by simply accepting this debate and in this context consider this document withdrawn, there is no point in discussing it anymore. Thank you. They're gonna need others, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-18-0.u24370	In 9th and 17th, I conclude the 79th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. I'll see you around 24. The session was completed at 9:20 p.m.
