ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5479	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, respected representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 53rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina There are 14 delegates present today, five of them from the Bosniak people, five from the order of the Croatian people, four from the order of the Serb people. Mr. Milojević is justifiably absent. For the 53rd session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 52nd National Assembly, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on an identical text on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, please pay attention to item 5 of the agenda, here we have a printing error, the fifth point is 5. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Audit of Institutions would be the full name of the point, 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Taxation Act on additional value, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the Law on Postages by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law on the verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and to persons key in helping persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Procurement Act, first reading, 2 12. Proposal for a law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and Destroying, First Reading, 13. Information on the state of security of BiH for the first six months of 2005, 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between BiH and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of confidential information, 15. Giving consent to ratification of the BiH-Kravljevina Swedish dual citizenship agreement, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on International Railway Transport CoTIF, 18. Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House. That would be the agenda. Are there amendments and proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Thank you very much. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to the delegate's question was received by Velimir Jukić. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer? Mr. Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5480	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, guests, ladies and gentlemen, the answer I have received. However, I am not satisfied with the answer. Namely, I was answered by the Regulatory Agency. The issue was addressed to the Council of Ministers and part of the Council of Ministers' response should have been consulted by the Communications Agency, the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, because it is partly in charge. However, the issue was not only from the responsibility of the Regulatory Agency for Communications but from the Council of Ministers, and especially the part that is most important is not mentioned at all, as part of the response. That part of the question was said. Will the Council of Ministers take or have a plan how and in what way, through the cost of service, internet services make this service cheaper and accessible to everyone in BiH, especially young students and students? So, the Council of Ministers has neither been entitled to comment or comment, and in response it says, that is, the Communications Regulatory Agency says they have provided three permits, we have three users, three operators, as we know, and thus the conditions for the existence of competition are met. That's a fact. But that's not enough. That's not enough. It is necessary here and I think that the Council of Ministers has done something wrong not to agree with the Agency to limit the price levels of this service for certain categories, in order to make it more accessible and more used. Because the real question is how much we are in the process of those new trends today, which is that the Internet is increasingly used, especially to offer very favourable packages, low internet prices for students and students. And, of course, I will repeat my question in this second part. I'll just take this, I won't appreciate how much, but part of the answer and answer isn't complete and I'm not happy with the price of the answer and I'm going to ask the question again. 3 So what will the Council of Ministers do to make Internet services more accessible to more people and to be cheaper, especially for young students and students?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5481	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. We didn't have any more answers to the delegates' questions. Anybody got any delegate questions? Mr. Limov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5482	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office's esteemed colleagues and fellow envoys, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the international community, the representatives of public information funds, I welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers, who are mostly not present at our meetings, will take advantage of this opportunity and ask three questions for which I do not need to elaborate the reasons at all, because the very questions will show what I want. I ask, of course, the envoys' questions to the Council of Ministers. 1. Are there any concrete elements and, above all, international maritime law standards, which, when building infrastructure facilities, must be respected by states, which may question the right of another country to access international waterways? 2. Does the project of building a bridge, which the government of the Republic of Croatia wants to connect its Dalmatian coast to the Peljesac peninsula, meet international technical standards? 3. What has the BiH Council of Ministers done so far concretely and what will they do in the future if the construction of that bridge puts the rights and interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina at risk?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5483	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Any more delegate questions? Thank you. We're also concluding this agenda point. Osman, I'm sorry I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5484	I welcome you, Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests and distinguished media representatives. I have one question, which is a little longer, so I will read it to the Council of Ministers, or Mr. Terzić. The issue of implementation of the Law on Accounting and Audit of BiH, Official Messenger of BiH No 42/2004. 1. Whether a accounting and audit committee for BiH was established, in accordance with Article 4 and Article 12. BiH Accounting and Audit Act, Official Messenger of BiH No. 42/2004.? 4 2. If the commission referred to in point 1 of this act is formed? Who is her director and what are the members of the commission in accordance with Article 4. The law? 3. Are they consistent with Article 12? Law on accounting and audit of BiH from the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. in the period from six months, from 18.9.2014 to 18.03.2005, the following tasks and tasks were carried out: (a) Making the statutes of the Rules of Procedure and the Internal Regulation of the Commission, (b) Making an ethical code for the Commission and the accounting profession, (c) Co-ordinated election procedures carried out by professional bodies for the selection of members of the Commission, (b) Making it a special international adviser after 18.9.2005, since it was no longer possible for the Director to be held in the role of the Special Council of the Commission and whether that function is still performed today, 5. How did the Commission, by law, have to be formed by 18.3.2005, have it fulfilled all its obligations, as set out in Article 7 of the Law in question? Six. Whether the Commission has established the conditions under which the candidates for the accounting profession are trained, in accordance with Article 7. And if she did, what are educational institutions, professional bodies and private businesses? Seven. How have certifications for authorised auditors, in accordance with Article 5(2) of point (b) of Article 5(2), to issue a certificate for authorised auditors, been issued by the Commission of the aforementioned law, have they been issued so far? 8. Did the Commission, in accordance with Article 5(5) of the Law, recommend a standard administrative fee of a nominal amount, with the payment of which it allows associations to compensate for the necessary administrative costs, which will result in the fulfilment of the requirement of this provision, and how did it make the nominal compensation? Nine. Since it is exclusively the responsibility of the Commission to determine the fee and the nominal amount for the costs of certification and licensing from the field of accounting profession, how it is possible for the Federation of Accountants and the auditors of the Federation of BiH to establish a nominal fee of 80 KM per candidate of the accounting profession and how it is possible to publish in a public call, published, the same association to use the concept of requisition when that concept of the Law is not known at all. Attachment. Public call published in the daily Avaz list of 23.12.2005, page 65. Ten. How is it possible to transfer competences, which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commission under Article 6(2)(b) of the last sentence of the cited law to the Association of the Union of Accountants and auditors of the Federation of BiH, and what is seen from that public call and... contrary to the legal standard? 11. How it is possible for the certification of authorised auditors to be carried out by professional bodies, which is directly contrary to Article 5(2) point (b). The issue of a certificate for authorised auditors 5 shall be carried out by the Commission and shall be issued to them by certificates, illegal bodies, and ultimately authorised auditors shall have unlawful calls, because their certification has not been carried out in accordance with this law. I'll give you this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5485	Thank you very much. This is where the Council of Ministers will work for half a year, since it works badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5486	Maybe a little unusual, but in the context of what was waiting for us was just a question on the table. Call for an international business perspective forum. The call was forwarded to Tuzla 16.1.2006. It's urgent, so it's urgent. We got it today. The call was made to 16.1. Today is 31.01. The call refers to participation in some counselling of 27.1. We got on the bench today this call. This is not the first time, but this is very often happening to us both to the unseriousness and sloppyness and irresponsibility of the services they are working on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5487	Excuse me. I'm sorry. I don't have that kind of call. I don't know what this is about. I don't know where that came from. Thank you, Mr. Zno. The point is no, I don't know who it is. We're going to ask a serious question to our people in the joint service. So we'll ask. I can't answer that. Is that a delegate question? We're going to ask a serious answer to that question, very serious. Thank you very much. Do we have any further? Any further questions? He's not answering. Thank you very much. We've finished this first item of the agenda. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The 52nd session of the House of Peoples Does anyone report for a word on the record? He's not answering. So, please. Who's for this record to vote on? Vote now. So, we unanimously adopted the record. Ad.3. A report by the Joint Commission of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples You have all received a report from this committee. The Commission adopted one amendment, which became an integral part of this Rules of Procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a report from this committee. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. Please, there's no discussion. Let's vote now. Thank you very much. Therefore, the Commission's report was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. 6 Ad.4. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law and additions of the Administrative Tax Act You have received a report from the Commission. The Commission adopted two amendments, which became an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the report. In accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, the House of Peoples must vote on the Joint Commission's report. Please vote. Vote now. As far as I can see, 13 is total, we unanimously adopted the Commission's report. Ad.5. What I drew attention to in reading the agenda, a report from the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on the revision of BiH institutions, you received a report from the Joint Commission. The Commission adopted seven amendments, which became an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives adopted the report. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House must be voted on by the Joint Commission. Please vote now. It's unanimous again. Thank you very much. Please, I'm not finished. The Commission has also delivered the following conclusion, and we will also vote on that conclusion. The bottom line is. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to submit a report on the application of the Accounting and Audit Act within 30 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion. I ask you, the House of Representatives has adopted this conclusion of the Commission and I ask that we also vote on this conclusion. Vote now. So we unanimously adopted this conclusion. So there aren't any misunderstandings. The conclusion was delivered specifically, not delivered with the report as part of the Commission's minutes, so we vote for it. Thank you very much. Ad.6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Taxation Act on additional value, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers has submitted a request to consider this bill at the end of December. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for consideration of the Law in accordance with this Article after the debate. The House of Representatives did not adopt that the Law is being considered by emergency procedure. The law will be considered, therefore, in a regular procedure. Amendments shall not be made to Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? First, we vote on whether or not the law will be discussed by article 100, so we will discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5488	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like this opportunity just a few notes two or three sentences. We, when we passed the Tax Act on extra value a year ago and something, in December 2004, I was the one in this house who voted against that law, I didn't vote for it. For many 7 reasons, the law has now proved that I was right at the time and that the Law on value tax had to have higher, or differentiated rates. For this very reason, I am not prepared, of course this time, but here is the House of Representatives rejected the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this law by emergency procedure and referred it to regular procedure. I believe that this is quite right and that, in addition to these books, the brochure, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers in the Law supplementing the Act to an additional value, should go into the ordinary procedure in order to be freed or with narrow tariffs in the Law on Value Added, and, of course, I agree that this law on amendments and amendments to the Law goes into the ordinary procedure in order to be able to invest amendments and, possibly, to fix that law, in accordance with what most of us had opinions and commitment, but under some pressure, such a law as it is and which, behold, is not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5489	Thank you very much. I'm putting the law to the vote. Please, who is it to go into emergency procedure, as per article 100. Who's in? We'll do it again. The minister came before the vote if we're going to give her the right to speak. It's about VAT. Your deputy announced your discussion. You're here, we're in the process of voting. However, we will give you the opportunity to give your opinion as well. We understand the habits of you from the Council of Ministers to be late or not come at all. Please, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5490	I will greet you all and apologize for your delay. The Finance and Budget Committee is under session and now they've read me two letters, where they expect me to sit with them all day without going to the People's House or anywhere else, because they're the most important in the world right now. If today is about the law supplementing the law of added value, I will just repeat on behalf of the Council of Ministers, because we are on this brochure so I don't miss. We have also released this law according to the House of Representatives and, of course, according to the House of Nations in a way that accepts procedure 105, because in any other procedure a lot of things can be changed, and we have appreciated in this time, unfortunately, that this publishing activity is not covered, in a way that it can function as explained but threatened by the introduction of this tax and that it would therefore be one good way to accept this as it says here, and that is to free the books, brochures, magazines, publications of all these meanings, based on the opinion of this Management Board as such from VAT. I'll just say two sentences why it's written like this. This same text exists in the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act and so far this has been the case. So all of these publications that are being produced asked for the opinion of the Energy Ministry of Education and the ones that would have gotten it were exempt from paying taxes, and that's why this formulation here was used. They asked in the meantime for the release of reproductive paper and I don't know anything else, but this was what was brought into line with the entities at that time when the debate was being held, and that's why it was proposed like this. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The value added tax law, meaning within 60 days, 8 could be paid back tax, VAT paid, otherwise it would wait a year for them to return and this is, then, the third publication. So, the Council of Ministers voted in favour of this law, supported this initiative and referred it to parlament for a statement, asking me to get rid of it by procedure 105, because in that case everything would be accepted as it is. Here, that's an explanation that goes with this text and this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5491	Thank you, Madam Minister. We vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5492	Well, here, gentlemen of the delegates, I'd take another chance, because she wasn't Mrs. Minister. I would once again take the opportunity to attend one of the previous sessions, and I am using your opportunity to ask the question of billing payments from a single account of indirect taxes to the RS, the Federation and the Brcko District. Of course, you gave me the answer then that the state had nothing to do with it, that such a decision was made by the Management Board, and, of course, you are a member of that board of directors. I was a little bit interested again, I was at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and I received concrete data that the budget of the RS for 2005 was damaged by 30 million KM only last year on the basis of sales taxes on products and services and taxes on... What will happen when it begins, if these coefficients continue to apply now that these revenues are significantly, significantly higher in the single account, I assume how much this difference will then be to the unmistakable commitments to the RS budget. We have the data here and I again ask the question from the IMF representatives, who have confirmed that representatives of RS at the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board were right, so Mrs Cenić and Mr Kunić, who are asking the issue persistently and will eventually have to go to court. We're probably going to wrap up some stuff about the Value Added Tax Act and these changes and block all of this in this institution so this practice doesn't continue as it has been. It seems we should do something to overcome this problem. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5493	Do you need to say something?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5494	Oh, here, let me just say two sentences, I forgot to say it. You know that the 2006 budget hasn't been adopted, that's the situation we're in. In order to empty the account, the Joint Account of the Directorate for Low Taxation, the Management Board made a decision for the first month of this year, as the state expects 304 plus 261 million for the military in 2006, and last year we received 251 million, because the state is financed when this amount is divided by how much the budget is adopted by the number of days, every day, no matter how much the account will stand, the difference is divided by these coefficients. We have now written one decision that we have established for the first month, and today is a session that needs to be prepared for the second month, because no one has a budget, and it says in that decision that we're going to do a revision of the 2005 income schedule, and with that decision everyone agreed, so we're going to do a parallel audit, and it says that in the case of the difference there will be reconciliation, because the state will also have a positive difference, we're going to miss a part of the funds, because it's not the same thing when you divide 251 by the number of days per year of those workings or when you divide 566 million with the number of days per year, so the state is going to lack a part of the funds, but apro charge of 9 budgets and agreements and decisions should be agreed on equal terms, and at the end of the agreement. Well, that's the current phase we're in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5495	Thank you very much. He answered the word Mr. Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5496	Well, here, I'll take the opportunity, I'd like to welcome, of course, the newly arrived representatives of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputys, and ask them. What has changed significantly since we passed the VAT Act until today, so let's go with this amendment and the addition of the law. I mean, very interesting, and if we're going, why are we just leaving these items? This is where I read the explanation, of course, and the explanation is right here. But it's not the whole explanation, it's not the answer to my question why just these items and the question to all of us again. If we decide today to go to regular procedure, or shortened, it's all just a matter of deadlines. What about the amendments that will certainly be, because let's remember that we have some initiatives so far, that some other products are excluded from paying VAT, or to single out that instead of 17, zero percent of VAT is paid. It is a question to all of us whether to go to solve this in the way it is proposed or as it already has the initiative to do this in another procedure, a procedure that involves investing amendments not only of these but also of others, but of the same purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5497	Thank you very much. Mr. Limov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5498	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the procedure here and we have concluded in the beginning that the House of Representatives has defined itself as a regular procedure. I don't know why we're even giving up on the principles that apply in this conference, which is that we go parallelly, or behind the House of Representatives, which opens the possibility that we can right through the procedure that we regularly answer questions, which is now being asked by a respected colleague, Jukić. So he asked the question why is it going this way and counterpart Pajić pointed out himself that it was not set up in a sufficiently good way, because it was left out repromatter etc. and, if you don't give us the opportunity to correct through the amendment action and what you've referred to in the procedure, then how are we going to get the opportunity to, what's logical for me, put in this sense into release and medicine, say, baby food and basic life supplies? So, I don't know why we're having this debate, when we practically have a solution, and that's in the regular procedure that the House of Representatives has defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5499	Thank you very much. I think we should vote here if we're going to go into short procedure or not. We all have to make some views, some opinions, that would make us make a good decision. Mr. Genjac called earlier. Please excuse me. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5500	Dear colleagues, we have a proposal of a procedural nature, which came to the House of Peoples as an equal home to that representative home by the Council of Ministers. No matter how the procedure at the House of Representatives is defined in the final business procedure enables the House of Peoples and requires the House of People to express its position on the request of the Council of Ministers. There are no obstacles, and even on the assumption that the House of Peoples, in the emergency procedure, adopts this bill, and the House of Representatives adopts in a shortened procedure and, if there are any differences, there is once again a consensus, therefore, and that is what the Rules of Procedure foresees. I, respecting the argument I heard from the minister and respecting what is happening with this VAT article and all that is present and with all the implications of one solution and other solution, I do, however, believe that this proposal should be supported and that the Council of Ministers' proposal that this should be adopted in the emergency procedure. This is not about repromaterials, this is not about raw materials, this is about taxing creative work, and this is about one question from a domain that concerns the question of culture, which is of strategic interest and importance to BiH from a broad spectrum, where information, where literature, where culture is, etc. For these reasons, I think that this proposal by the Council of Ministers should be supported and, of course, I will vote for this bill to be followed by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5501	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5502	Here, I welcome all colleagues who follow our work. I don't share Mr. Genjac's opinion. I would bow to the views of those who think that we should put the bill in a regular procedure, so, for reasons we've already heard, not to repeat them, there are other reasons. We here have before us a law that bears the name of the Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. However, Article 2 is about one amendment. So, the inaccuracy is the title of this, it's not precise, it's a matter of technical nature, and it's clear from the explanation that the Council of Ministers, therefore, under one strong pressure, seems to me to have justifiable pressure from the publishing association made this proposal an amendment and an addition. There were other initiatives. We heard them here, which the Council of Ministers did not respect. Perhaps it would be good to wait for the regular procedure of the House of Representatives. There will probably be repairs to the proposal for this law, which the Council of Ministers has put in the procedure and that we are not wasting our time, so we have no reason to rush, because the law does not exist until the procedure of the House of Representatives is passed, until a committee of conformity is sitting again, etc. Maybe we'll have other initiatives on the table. The Council of Ministers has also proposed amendments and amendments to the law. It's very unserious what someone said, mildly, I'll say very specifically. It is very inconclusive of the Council of Ministers that through the debate in general, we should not have a law on the law on added tax, therefore, hot - cold. Therefore, they were not principled until the end when it came to the Value Added Tax Act, of the number of rates, of which double rates, of the fact that something should be excluded, etc. It has not even begun to apply in December to talk about the necessary changes to this law, under pressure, again I say, very justified certain structures, associations, those who have seen how this is done in our environment and how workers are done, and in other things, Europe, how something can still be exceptional, it is done by these laws. But 11 had to look at it a little more carefully, a little more precisely, a little bit more pedantic and not to play with Parliament when it comes to the adoption of the VAT law and now that not even 30 days of its application have passed, but we have in the procedure of the same promoter, who has changed our decisions, if he hadn't changed them, he wouldn't have had to have changes and additions today, we wouldn't have on the table today. So, I support that we put the bill in a regular procedure, that we can act in amendment on such a wrong proposal, we should change this name ourselves, because in Article 1 is complemented, in Article 2 proposed by the Council of Ministers of Amendments. Therefore, the law cannot bear the title of the Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. That's quite enough... can bear the title of the law supplementing the law to added value. That's just enough to make it right. It's clear to me that this is a nomotechnical matter, but let's follow one rule that we've had so far, we respected to pass the procedure at the House of Representatives and then we'll have a debate in the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5503	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Jukić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5504	Well, here, we've heard some colleagues' thoughts, but it would certainly be more interesting, I think it would be good if we touched the next agenda points right away and then we had the right picture. So we have two laws, which, in fact, are almost identical. I think they're a little different in the title. There's talk of a supplement. I don't know what the supplement is, if it doesn't carry a change in itself. She doesn't make sense. What's the addition, if not the change. If each supplement is a change, then it should be in the title and word changes. At least that's how I understand it. Furthermore, these two laws are called good. They only differ in one sentence, i.e. there's only one addition here. But here's what we're going to do at the next point. So, this area in BiH has been regulated in a special way and changes and additions cannot be made, therefore, nor any changes in this area, in this area without the consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. So another step further or earlier, which would mean that then the law, yielding all interventions, must be more precise. They go through more hands, more bodies. And what we have here is the result, which is not the result, but the opposite. I think it's best, however, and it's my suggestion that we discuss how to do this, as well as respect our conclusion from the beginning of this mandate and not go any different from that. He reads. As a rule, we are considering materials after they have passed in the House of Representatives, which in particular means that we can decide today in a way that we can say that these laws or laws go into regular procedure and then time our sessions and our work, that we can discuss them after they pass the House of Representatives. And this inconsistency in the proposal, I'm really not going to talk anymore. I guess I'm more critical of those who took part in this, but, look, if this goes into a regular procedure, there's going to be a chance that even through the commission phase we can talk about this, and we can find, of course, the best solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5505	Thank you very much. I think we have, however, exhausted the discussion about this point. Here you go, sir. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5506	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this is about voting on the procedure, I'll be brief. As you've seen, we've been against the procedure of an emergency procedure, since we stick to the principle that we're not leaving before the House of Representatives, and that's enough for us to be on a regular basis. And in the ordinary procedure, we will show our opinion on amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5507	Thank you, Doctor. I, after all these discussions, am voting whether this proposal will be considered by emergency procedure or by article 100 or not. Vote now. Therefore, reviewing the emergency procedure is not accepted and is going into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, by an urgent procedure and in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House concerning this point, I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers delivered this bill on Friday, i.e. 27.1.2006. In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted, did not adopt that the law is being considered by an emergency procedure. The law will be considered in the ordinary procedure. The amendments, therefore, do not invest. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? First we vote on whether or not the law will be considered, Djoko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5508	Madam Chairman and Madam Minister, I think it was correct, you gave certain notes in your opening presentation that there was one variant of the December Law supplement, and then the second version of January o.g. The December version, as I understand it, is also forecasting the release of paper in rolls, sheets by certain tariff numbers, and the other version from January does not foresee it. It provides brochures, books, magazines with the consent of entity governments, or ministries, and I think it would be logical now not to go in parallel to two laws amending and supplementing the law of the same thing to make this first version of December, it is logical that it should be withdrawn, that you withdraw it from the procedure. That would make sense. Because the assumption is that you later realized that these papers shouldn't be released, so you offered another variant. Now, it would make sense that this first variant is completely withdrawn from the procedure that if you stay on this, this January version goes, and that we are in the regular procedure making amendments. I think that would be a logic, not two amendments and an addition to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5509	Thank you very much. I'll do this on this occasion, the discussions will go the way they'll go. We have clear views. I'll put it to a vote. Are we going to consider the Value Added Tax Act 13 by emergency procedure? The House of Representatives put this in a regular procedure. Are we going to consider the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure? Who is it that the law is considered by an emergency procedure, please vote now. Vote now. Therefore, it was not adopted that the Tax Act on Additional Value was considered by an emergency procedure, 10 is against, and one is abstention, and the others are for. So, this law goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.8. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law on Amendments to the Law on Postages, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House shall decide on a request to consider the Law according to this member after the debate. The amendments don't apply. I'm opening a debate. First we vote whether the law will be considered by article 100 or not. I'm voting on whether or not we're going to consider this law according to article 100. Please vote. We're considering this unanimously by Article 100. So now we're opening a debate on the law, about the request for a law on amendments, we're opening a debate on the law amending the Law on Post Offices, by emergency procedure. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5510	I assume you all know that yesterday the House of Representatives passed this law on amendments and amendments to the Act of Emergency Procedure, just for the sake of the knowledge of colleagues and delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5511	The promoter is the House of Representatives of these amendments and additions. They've adopted that amendment and supplementation. Now we're going to discuss adopting amendments and supplementing this law. Here you go, and I'll put it on discussion. Is anyone picking up? No one's answering for a word. I'm putting an amendment to the Post Law on Voting. Please let us vote. Thank you very much. The law didn't pass. Total versus 10, for 4. So this law didn't pass. Thank you very much. 14 Ad.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the verification and settlement of obligations on the basis of the account of old foreign exchange savings under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a proposal for the draft law to be considered in a shortened procedure. Who's answering for a word? We're talking procedure. Niko. Here you go, Minister. Thank you very much. Do you understand that now, Minister? We're voting on the procedure. Please vote now. So we unanimously agreed to this shortened procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.10. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in helping persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives did not adopt that the law is being considered by emergency procedure. The law will be considered in the ordinary procedure. Whoever answers the word, or we'll stay on our principle and we'll go into procedure, as specified, as we long after the debate. Please, we're voting on the procedure. Please vote now. So, six against, so it goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much. Ad.11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Procurement - first reading You received the law as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić. Wrong, wrong Čengić. Mr. Limov. Here you go, Mr. Limov. The rose came through.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5512	I didn't answer for this report. I've already seen it. 25.1. was a commission, the Finance Commission, which gave this report. I only volunteered on behalf of the Club to ask how it was possible that this mistake had occurred before it came to the procedure, published in the Official Messenger, or published in Official Messenger No 92 since 28 December 2005. In what way there's been a mix-up. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5513	I owe that apology. In that home, that law passed and was made public by mistake. I also intervened in the next issue, which will be published, cancelled that announcement. So we've corrected the error of the moment. We realized it was a mistake. We made that announcement and ended everything about the procedure. It's the administration's fault. Here's the secretary to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5514	I just want to tell you that this law published has not produced any legal facts, since it takes effect eight days from the day of publication. However, the correction of the law was three days later, so that it could not produce legal facts. There's a correction. This was published on 28. However, the 30th was the majority official, in which it was announced that it was not valid, that it was a mistake, so that it could not produce consequences.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5515	Three days later, it was reported that it was a mistake and could not produce any consequences. It's a mistake, administrative. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5516	I hope, of course, you know who made a mistake, and I hope so, too, that these things will be no more, at least in this assembly, because it is evident that whoever gave it is not an important position of this home, home of the people. I, however, want to say something about the law itself, it is very short and it refers practically to moving the deadline for forming a public procurement agency and office to consider complaints. In 2004, we passed this law and set in it a three-month deadline for the formation of these two institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then because it was not sufficient time for the Council of Ministers and those involved in the activity of the construction or establishment of these two institutions. We moved through the changes and additions in 2005 on two occasions by three months, so he was six, so he was nine, so you remember that I then warned that the atypical deadline was nine months, that's probably the only country in the world, where that kind of deadline, here, we are now 12 months, and it's quite evident that this is not a good practice and that this is not good for this home to cross over these things. The Council of Ministers and those in charge of law enforcement should be warned very seriously that they respect the deadlines. I would be happy and happy and I would accept this if this were the only thing, but I could now name five or six of those obligations, where they were broken in some cases and drastic deadlines, and the Council of Ministers didn't do their part of the job. I, of course, cannot justify and cannot accept such excuses from the Council of Ministers and will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5517	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Please, we're talking about the first reading debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is it to adopt this law on public procurement in the first reading. 16 Please vote now. So we passed the law in first reading with 13 for, 1 against. I suggest we discuss this law in a second reading. Do we agree? Please, who's in, vote now. So it's still 13 for, 1 against. So, we decided to go to a discussion about another reading and I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? No Niko's answering my word as far as I can tell. We're voting on the law. Please vote now. Thank you very much. We still have 13 in, 1 against. The law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. Ad.12. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development of Production and Accumulation and the Use of Chemical Weapons and Their Extermination, we are talking about the law in the first reading You have received the law as well as the report of the competent commission. The Commission has adopted three amendments, which have become an integral part of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. This is the first reading of the law of Article 99. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Is anyone picking up? Not that I can see. Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5518	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions, media and all others present, this law was actually done because of the need to define the behaviour within the BiH state to implement the Convention, which BiH signed and ratified. The law provides for procedures within BiH for all those who are able to deal with the matter provided for in the Convention or mentioned in the Convention. The Commission has considered this law twice, and in the second review, I have tabled three amendments, which were tabled by the Commission's representatives, i.e. by the Council of Ministers, to accept and support. Members of the Commission also supported these amendments and thus proposed a full text of the law. In order not to report twice, when it comes to amendments, it is that, in fact, with very short procedures, a certain fact is changed. At the time of law-making, there were entity defence ministries. However, they are not present today, so one amendment deleted the mention of entity defence ministries, another amendment made it clear that certain institutions make up a commission, which the law provides, which will oversee the implementation of these procedures, which are overlooked by law, and then the clarification in the formulation itself became clear that each institution is giving a representative and, thirdly, a little longer time has been given to comply with this law, or the laws in BiH with this law, i.e. make amendments. It was scheduled to be within one month, which was unrealistic. It has been proposed two months, for reasons to be a little more realistic, and at the same time not to be late with the implementation of the resolution, because we are already, in fact, bound to apply the Convention for a long time, we owe 17 to report and in case we have some problems about it, then we could have significant problems about it, in what way to implement the Convention. In any event, the Commission considers that this law should be supported, together with the amendments incorporated into this text of the law, in order to be able to comply with international obligations. Most of the obligations and tasks under this law will be borne by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and will co-operate with other competent ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5519	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. We heard Mr. Čengić's statement. Is anyone else picking up? Thank you very much. So we're voting on the law in the first reading. Please vote now. The total vote was 11. I'll count Boško after he entered the meantime and we passed the Law in the first reading. I suggest we move on to the adoption of the law and in the second reading, that's what the House of Representatives did. There were no new amendments, and I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? After this report, Mr. Čengić has no need, everything is clear. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So 12 for and we're going to say this is unanimous. We've adopted this in different texts, so we suggest we elect representatives to the commission to bring these texts together. In front of the Bosniak Genjac, please let me hear who he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5520	In the committee for the alignment of this law, the Bosniak Club proposes Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5521	Thank you very much. In front of the Croatian club Mr Ante Spajić, he is not here, he is the easiest. In front of the Serbian club Mr. Vinko Radovanović. So, the Commission: Čengić, Ante Spajić, Mr Vinko Radovanović is our proposal. Please vote for the commission. Vote now. Thank you. So we unanimously adopted the Commission. Congratulations, gentlemen from the Commission. I hope you do it in quality, agree. Ad.13. For the first six months, you received a report from the Commission on defence and security, political surveillance of defence and security at BiH level. The House of Representatives accepted the information. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers have anything to say? Here you go, dear lady. Come out here. I think you're here for the first time, so introduce yourselves. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5522	Good afternoon, I welcome you in front of the Ministry of Security and Mr Bariša Čolak, Minister of Security. We regret that this information on the security situation for the past six months of 2005, only now on the agenda of this home. Just to inform you that annual safety information is under way, for 2005. I'm here. My name is Ljiljana Trišić and I am an assistant minister. I'm waiting for your remarks. Until now, your remarks have been very, very useful to us, and I hope that it has also been felt in the making of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5523	Mr. Limov. Here you go. Thank you, Mrs. Trišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, after these opening remarks, I'm very close to deciding not to say anything about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5525	Well, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5526	I suggest that we take this into consideration and hold on to the word of the lady – Miss that we will soon receive full information for the whole year and that we do not waste time not to repeat the same discussion for a month. If you're going to put this proposal to the conclusion, I'm going to give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5527	If Boško doesn't pay back, then we will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5528	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, you have received a report on the work of defence and security structures at BiH level. The joint commission of both Parliament Assembly homes, held at its 5.12.2005 session, discussed information on the state of security of BiH for the first six months of 2005, supported it and referred to a further parliamentary procedure with the following conclusions, whose adoption proposes the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We received this report earlier and probably one number of my colleagues may not have that conclusion. 1. The BiH Ministry of Security should remove economic and political qualifications, which are not within the authority of this ministry, from information on the state of security of BiH for the first six months of 2005, are not accurate and are not based on objective indicators, and that, in future, it avoids the qualification of that character. 19. 2. The BiH Security Ministry should look at the issue of terrorism in building security information in BiH for the entire 2005 period. 3. The BiH Council of Ministers should make a final decision on the head office of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIP as soon as possible for the area of northeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina of Tuzla, since not resolving the issue leads to security problems. 4. The BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Security should submit within a month to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina information on the implementation of earlier conclusions that have committed these institutions to certain activities. 5. The joint commission and homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly fully support the BiH Security Ministry's activities, which concern the issue of security in BiH's sports fields. These are the conclusions of the Joint Commission, which have been unanimously accepted, and I think that they partially coincide with the proposals of my colleagues, Lim.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5529	Thank you very much. I think this is how we say that we put in the Commission's report to accept it, provided that it fully appreciates, not completely, but accepts these conclusions, which Mr Boško Šiljegović read and uncorporates them in his report and says something about them and adheres to this report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5530	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would support in most of this conclusion by the competent commission, which Mr Šiljegović read, but I would little, indeed, have here in this information by 9 and further, point 2.1 of terrorism and arms trafficking... as the committee in charge has suggested. I think terrorism must be paid a lot more attention. The information was made for the first half of 2005. I want to point out this time, something happened as far as I was informed from the information funds, but in the second half of 2005, I guess after this information was made, that certain persons in BiH were arrested on suspicion that they were connected to terrorism, that some people in some neighbouring countries were arrested on suspicion that they were connected to international terrorism, with a passport from BiH, etc. And, therefore, I have an absolute observation that the information is not sufficiently dedicated to this one very dangerous problem globally, and, of course, on the pre-lated page here in summary, it was given that BiH is being given the presence of its troops in Iraq, becoming a potential target of terrorists. So, I absolutely agree that this issue must be given a naximum attention and in the proposal for measures, of course, you have made certain proposals in the proposal, but there is absolutely nothing in the proposal for a measure in this matter. So, I support all of this. It may be information on what, i.e. the proposal submitted by the committee responsible under point 2. The Ministry of Security should, when drawing up 20 information on the state of security for the whole of 2005, give its focus on the issue of terrorism. Perhaps in general... or the absence of issues and problems of possible presence of potential terrorists in BiH or the threat of BiH from possible terrorist attacks etc. So, concretely focus on the BiH area, its institutions, citizens' idt.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5531	Thank you, Mr. Đoko. I've got it like this. Let us say that we accept the information and that, we take it to the knowledge and that the Commission's report on defence and security we accept and forward it to the Ministry to take them into account in the half-yearly report. Osman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5532	I can't take the impression and don't talk five-six sentences about one problem, which I think, no matter what I agree with you, we're going to get an annual report and then we're going to have to talk in trouble, but I'm saying this most for the media, to appeal to them, and that's under this point unauthorized production and marketing intoxicating drugs. Since that law is in the process, and here are the catastrophic data, please I need to draw this up to go public and ask the media to make this statement and to talk, that the problems they're talking about, to help whoever is proposing the law, to make a good law, because I don't think our media should just criticise but be constructive, and here they have very good data that they can write very well about. Here, I'll just have a very short please. In the first half of 2005, 724 crimes of unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs were recorded in BiH, as well as possession and provision of intoxicating drugs, which is 38.69% higher compared to the same period in 2004. That's a terrible piece of information. That's a terrible piece of information. On that record, every normal man in Bosnia should stop and tremble. What's going on? We have no right to remain silent on this. Furthermore, I, indeed, appeal and pray to everyone in BiH, who is in charge of prevention, for everything else to simply alarm the entire public in BiH and to look for a cure until it is too late. I'm afraid it's too late. I appeal, last time we talked about the State Border Service, I spoke very openly, very openly, because that's about it. Unfortunately, the media, especially in the Federation, did not pay any attention to this, after all. I ask them to pay attention to this and if they can't do it without each other. I hope that when we get the bill, we can think about how we're going to adopt it and how we're going to make a statement about it. I'd just like to make one little remark about what Boško said. I think point three is what that center said, it's more specific, it's no longer a problem. It's decided to be in Tuzla, as far as I'm concerned. So it's already out of date, and I think it should be shut down. I wanted to appeal to all of this to make it simple, much, much more important to make sure that I don't elaborate any longer now, that I don't take your time, take my right to do it when we're doing the law... and when we get this report for 2005. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5533	Thank you, Mr. Brki. This is a useful note, a useful discussion. Here, then, we can say that we are receiving this report to the Ministry, and I ask you to say that, not to vote on it, but simply to say that these conclusions, these security commissions, are being forwarded to the Ministry and that, in the next period, they are taking into account our views, the views of our commission, in making the next report. Is that okay? Thank you very much. Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between BiH and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of confidential information You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for the discussion? Nobody's answering. Mr. Čengić, I can't see, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5534	So, when it comes to the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on security procedures, I just want to say briefly. The Commission has considered this agreement. The essence of the agreement to define here the views, i.e. the obligations of both parties, when it comes to the exchange of confidential data. This is a very important agreement on the Commission's assessment, but it is also an important fact that we have come to the stage that the European Union is offering, or is signing an agreement with it, which defines exactly what institutions can make available data from the European Union and at the same time, in which way we will make confidential data from BiH available to the European Union. So this will be about the most serious data of military, intelligence and other nature, and in this sense this agreement defines the behaviour of both sides, in other words we can say that BiH has stood up for a partner of the European Union in this important area, and some think that this is a good sign for the Partnership for Peace. For all these reasons, the Commission proposes that the House give its consent and ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5535	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5536	I will say that I believe that and that we will unanimously support this agreement without any doubt, I just want to take advantage of the opportunity to inform my colleagues that in December of last year there was a NATO Pact delegation here and that there is an activity under way to prepare a security agreement, which should be signed between the NATO Pact and BiH, and together with this agreement then remove all the dilemmas, related to, I would say, technical conditions for our accession to the Partnership for Peace. counterpart Šiljegović was also one of the hosts of this NATO delegation, which was in BiH. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5537	Thank you very much. Please, we all know here what brings us ratification of this agreement. We are all fully aware, so I am voting to give consent to ratification of the agreement between BiH and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange of confidential information. I'm asking you to vote now. We're unanimous here. So we consider the agreement ratified. Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the dual citizenship agreement between BiH and the Kingdom of Sweden The report of the committee in charge has been obtained. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5538	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I think this bilateral agreement is a very important event for BiH. It allows citizens of BiH, who have received Swedish citizenship in any way, for any individual reason, to go and live in Sweden, to have Swedish citizenship now, following this agreement, can retain Bosnian Herzegovina's citizenship, as well as Swedish citizenship. This is obviously a very important fact for Bosnia and Herzegovina and a high rating of what we have done so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the CIPS Project and, therefore, to all data on our citizenship, including a number of other activities that are certainly related to valid information about our citizens. According to our knowledge, this is the first time the Kingdom of Sweden has signed such a bilateral agreement with any country in the world. On the other hand, we hope that this will be a good argument for our negotiators to establish such agreements or negotiate with other EU and other countries and third countries, and we believe that this can be of benefit to and to address visa issues for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For all reasons, and especially for the reasons why in this way the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who live in Sweden have and Sweden's citizenship is no longer lost but also re-enlisted and as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission has proposed to the House to give consent and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5539	Thank you very much. Is anyone picking up the word? Thank you very much. Please join the vote for the ratification of the Agreement on the granting of citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Sweden. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So unanimous. 23 Moving to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the European Convention on the control of terrorism You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this protocol. I'm opening a debate. Please, who's answering for your word? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5540	Thank you. So this is about that the European Convention on Terrorism that we have already ratified has now experienced some changes in the meantime due to a number of circumstances, from changing the name of certain countries, to supplementing certain solutions, etc. and now we have a protocol that defines these amendments to the Convention that it has experienced over a period of time. The Commission has considered this protocol and is proposing to the House that approval be given to ratification of this Protocol, and thus ratification of this latest version of the European Convention on the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5541	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Čengić on behalf of the Commission. I am putting in place a declaration of consent to ratify the Protocol amending the European Convention on the control of terrorism. Please vote now. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on International Railway Transport of COTIF Please, you have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has given consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. Here we go. Do we have a commission? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5542	Therefore, this Protocol amending the Convention defines certain issues, and the entire Convention regulates the conduct of the countries involved in rail traffic, which are signatories of this Convention. KOTF is a very important document in international rail transport, and it actually regulates those issues that we resolved through the Law on Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which allowed more operators to exist on a single infrastructure structure within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Most important of all the elements, all elements of the Convention are very important, is the fact that those countries that ratify this Protocol and the Convention do not have to sign special bilateral agreements with countries that have already signed the Convention. In this way, we, by fact, ratifying this protocol and convention, suddenly achieve the same conditions for transport in 30, rail transport in 36 countries, mainly European countries, and at the same time enter the family, or family of countries that have such standards and thus open ourselves to other railways and other operators to normally transport their goods through Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina by equal standards. In this way, by ratifying this convention, we are actually becoming what we would call a part of Europe. For all these reasons, the Commission proposes to the House to ratify the Protocol on the Convention on International Railway Traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5543	We heard Mr. Čengić. This is important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am voting to give consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on International Railway Transport. Please vote now. Thank you. So we adopted this ratification unanimously. And the 18th point of the Ad.18 agenda. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House What I, please, please, may I say. Now I'm going to commend someone, can I, what we tend to, and what's in ours that's being practiced by our foreign trade commission, is home trade policy, is it always giving half-yearly reports to our home, and here you get one such report, and I don't think it's, it doesn't need to be repeated, that it's a good report. And I ask the Presidents of the Commission to say something smart in two, possibly three sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5544	It's not easy to say something smart, especially to me. However, I will only say the following. So we are first required by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations every six months to submit a report. Since we've solved the Rules of Procedure today, it won't be six months but a year, but this is a report from the beginning of the 7th to the end of the 12th month. In addition to the report for the second half of 2005, we gave both one statistic and the first and second half together and only counted how many laws the Commission discussed, conventions, agreements, other sessions, etc. 25 I have to say only one Commission has done most of its tasks. Last year, we transferred some obligations from 2004 to 2005. We are now transferring some obligations in 2006, but twice as much as last year's. I believe that in this year, the Commission will probably introduce some new forms of activity in the sense that we are preparing for a session of the Commission, which would be a kind of public conversation on the possibility of greater domestic production of exports and attracting foreign investment. I would have no more to say than that, except that we tried to make the Commission always do its job so that neither the House nor the other institutions, or the Commission, were waiting for the end of our commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5545	The president, you've been over-expanded. Thank you. You've done well. And that's okay. Mr. Boško, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5546	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, I have an obligation on behalf of the Club of Delegates in the order of the Serbian people to say a series of commendations on the work of this commission. I think it refers to the entire commission that very five-cent, neatly and in time we get reports. Here may be a private remark that is not here, that we do not always have to be chaired by this committee to give us some introductory, slightly longer explanations, but I am joking, a series of commendations are given to both the College of the Commission and to its work and to the secretary. It's probably a team that's helping us here through our reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5547	Fifty percent of the commission is a secretary. I know that, but. Please. What am I gonna do? There's no voting. We're receiving this report to our knowledge. There's no voting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5548	On behalf of all the members of the Commission, I would like to thank you for the high grades of the esteemed colleague Šiljegović, where I can say that it is credit to the members of the Commission for what this is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-31-0.u5549	Thank you very much. My colleagues are so lucky. Please. What now? We accepted the Commission's report. That's not what you're voting about. There's no voting. We'll vote for the annual vote. We don't vote this one. Please be nice, colleagues, to please the vanity, please vote for the report. Vote now. You can be against the brk. You've got everything wrong with you. So we unanimously adopted Has's report. The session was completed at 1:00 p.m.
