ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24973	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, please take your seats with an apology for a little delay. The college had one meeting together. We tried to finish it quickly and get on with our work. I am opening the 82nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual at this session we invited our regular guests. All those who are here, I warmly welcome. According to the service report, I find 37 MPs present. 20 from the Federation and 14 from the RS. We have a quorum, we can make a full decision. Ladies and gentlemen, you've received a draft agenda. Circumstance ordered the need to supplement this agenda proposal. We also verified it at a session of the inner colleges and the session of the extended College. That's five points of the new agenda. One, one. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Citizenship, under procedure 104, 2. The Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, also after Novaković, 3. Momčilo for a bill amending the Law on Administrative Taxes, also after 104, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in first reading and 5. Appointment of 4 members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service and determination of the duration of their mandate. You have also received this updated draft agenda. Prior to the debate on the draft agenda, the College proposes that as a previous issue, we address the relationship to the motion for a resolution submitted by MP Muhamed Moranjkić. In fact, Mr Moranjkić delivered the motion for a resolution on four-year reform in BiH based on the GROZD civil platform on 22.06. In accordance with Article 121(2), 2 Rules of Procedure, the House should decide whether the proposal for a resolution will be reviewed in the relevant Commission or whether it will be immediately included in the agenda. So I urge you, first of all, to answer this question. I don't think there's any need to argue. I would therefore ask the representatives to declare that this motion for a resolution is going to be discussed in the relevant committee. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 33 votes in favour of, 3 against, without abstention, the entity's enough majority to conclude that the proposal for a resolution on four-year reform in BiH based on the GROZD civil platform submitted by MP Moranjkić is headed towards the relevant commission. Thank you to the agents. You have, once again, been reminded of a proposal for an updated agenda which I have also read in terms of complements. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Club, I want to support what we have agreed on at the extended College, which is to keep this agenda with the request, since we've already worked out that maybe we're not going to expand the agenda. And, while I have taken the floor, to inform this esteemed House, that Mr. Mišić Nenad has stepped down from the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party and will continue to work at the Mixed Club Socialist Party, Independent Candidates, Poslanik as an independent MP and has joined the party of professors Dr. Petar Kunić, Stranci of the new Serbian Force. This is just a brief announcement that we've expanded, that we have now four MPs, that we've leveled with the SDS and that here you can count on us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24975	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24976	So here we are, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, submitting an initiative, namely the proposal that no consensus has been reached on the extended College to the House of Representatives to the Council of Ministers to form a commission of 9 members, a mixed national composition to investigate civilian casualties in the Municipality of Prijedor, in the period 1992-1995. On behalf of the Party Club, the explanation of the agenda point proposal will be given by Mrs Senija Kapetanović. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24977	He was delivered to me, and you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24978	I'll just take a minute. I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am really not going to repeat what I have already explained in my first attempt to put this into the agenda, just asking you to really have the understanding to put this as a part of the agenda because I think we owe it to the citizens of Prijedor, because of what I have stated, because of those who have returned to Prijedor, because of those who have not yet returned to Prijedor and there are many who ultimately have supported this initiative and in some way asked me to stand it. So I don't think that's diminishing or causing any problem for such a commission to be formed and eventually come up with some real truths that will help the people of Prijedor to return to everyday life to build a community. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24979	Thank you very much. You've heard this proposal to supplement the agenda and reason. You've been given an explanation in writing. Is there a need for a debate? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24980	Mr. Chairman, we don't have any additions to the agenda because our club president himself attended the College and agreed... I just wanted this one, given that I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and that some things we planned today would be on the agenda and couldn't because of the extensive agenda and everything, I would just ask by commenting on two things. Yes, for the next session of Parliament, we certainly have what was the subject of the Commission's work on finance and budget and two things. First, that whole set of VAT laws. And secondly, no less important, we had Mr. Chairman's report yesterday on the implementation of the budget for the first half of the year, and there was quite an interesting debate and conclusions that did not endure the delay. So I would ask you to put it for the next session anyway because one of the conclusions that was adopted yesterday was currently and within the framework of BiH institutions in the course of a large number of uncontrolled competitions to call new jobs that are not known to have financial coverage and are completely contrary to all the principles and arrangements we had previously. And if it is not at the next session of Parliament's agenda, then we are practically drying something that we at least need to know whether or not we are for it. Just so as some kind of suggestion to accept, there will be no unnecessary debate at the next session of the agenda on whether it will be and in what form it will be. So I don't open up now that set of questions that can result in a very hot debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24981	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I'm getting an explanation, or explanation from Home Secretary, that it'll be ready and we'll have it at the next session. The next session will be me hoping for the next 15 days already around 21-2. Seven, plan it and this will also be on the agenda. Thank you again, Mr. Lagumdžija. Is there anyone else around the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 4 I place first on the statement of the proposal submitted on behalf of the Party for BiH by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, to task the Council of Ministers and to form a committee to determine the actual state and death in Prijedor in the period of '92-'95, with an explanation that we have received and given by Mrs Senija Kapetanović. I ask MPs to prepare for a statement and approach the vote. Vote now. So we have a request to repeat the vote. Stand by. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So the proposal to supplement the agenda has a general but does not have an entity majority. Unfortunately, there is no agreement in the College. So now they just need to vote those who are against this conclusion in the second round. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So we have more than 2/3 against from the RS and the proposal to supplement the agenda has not been accepted. We're moving on to realising the agenda. First item, Ad.1.The adoption of the minutes from the 80th and 81st session of the House of Representatives You've got the records. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to prepare to come forward together on the minutes of the 80s and 81st sessions. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously, with 30 votes in favour, we adopted the minutes of the 80s and 81st session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs. Moving to second point, that's Ad2. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24984	I would really like to thank you for your response to my parliamentary question at the 77th session, April 14th, which I received from the President of the BiH Court of Justice, Medžida Kreso. This is an example of how, in a very short time, she provided an answer to my question about the transparency of spending on the BiH Court of Justice's budget on the granting of official defence duties. Basically, in every case I've set, and that's an example, and I thank you for that kind of expedition. I want to take this opportunity to thank you. And, at the 73rd session, I received an answer finally from the Council of Ministers of BiH, to my question about the phase of the BiH Law on Lawyerry. Since the Resort Ministry hasn't answered my question since 73, then I also sent it to the Council of Ministers. I received an answer that is at the stage of waiting for the opinion of the OHR Legal Department. Some material related as work material and I urge the OHR Legal Department to deliver its opinion on this work text as soon as possible in the shortest possible procedure. And I thank the representatives of the OHR and, in particular, the representatives of the OSCE who have given support for adoption, for entering this parliamentary procedure of this law. Also, we thank you and I'm initiating the question. These are my findings. With that, I'm taking the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24985	You will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24986	And I only ask the restoring ministry and the Council of Ministers to deliver it to the Council of Ministers in the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Sports of BiH, it has concluded a public debate, in which it is resolutely delivered by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and by the Council of Ministers in a proposal for this. I think our athletes in BiH deserve to have such a law and try to solve those strategic issues at least for the performance of representative BiH selections in all sports. Now, that's my point. And I'm using the chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24987	There will be an opportunity to ask questions later. Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else want to comment on the answers? He doesn't want to. I'm finishing this part of the second point and I'm opening up an opportunity for new questions. The first came from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, followed by Mr. Sipović, Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Džedović, Mr. Kunić, Mr. Živković, and Mrs. Perkanović, and Mr. Ćeman, the lapus Lozančić Lozančić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24988	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I have rarely used the possibility of asking parliamentary questions before. This time I have to do it because it's about the realization of one of our conclusions. As a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives College, I received members of the United UGOR a few days ago. The Association of Citizens of Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia, the Jelah Tešanj Association, who were interested in what happened to the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of this home since 21 December 2005. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Helsinki Committee for BiH at the request of the association, and I have accepted the obligation to ask the BiH Presidency today, the BiH Council of Ministers, the Foreign Ministry, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Justice, which reads, What has been done so far to realize the conclusions of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives; 01-50-1-54-71/05 since 21 December 2005? I ask that the answer be delivered in writing as soon as possible, so that at the next session, when we discuss the realization of the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I can be more specific about this issue. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24989	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Let's go in the order I announced. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24990	Please, chair, if I may ask, since I will ask a very unusual question, very interesting for the public and for this Parliament and for the representatives of the international community, OHR, the OSC, and the media and the public, if I may get it, I will try to be very brief and concrete, to ask a strategic question that perhaps no one has asked in this house and I will ask it as an MP, using my constitutional right. And this is, commenting with other BiH citizens on the basis of all principles of human rights protection, democracy, the rule of law, the prosperity of this country and the principles of international conventions, I am asking one question, is it, since this is not clearly defined by the law on the BiH Election Law, and the central body for implementing the Election Law is the Election Commission of BiH, the Central Election Commission and the Court of BiH as an appeals court and the Constitutional Court. Please, I ask a question, as many have asked me, and I myself ask them, how, is there a jurisdiction of any of these authorities, the Central Election Commission, the Court of BiH, the Constitutional Court, the OHR Office, which implements the Dayton Agreement, when one of the citizens is a member of the political party, by violating the Statute of the domestic acts of the party politically injured 7 his human rights discriminated on the basis of, or directly Article 21. General Declarations on Human Rights of the UN, Annex III, IV and VI of the Dayton Agreement, which also includes the Constitution of BiH, Article 2(2). Constitution and Article 14. European Conventions on Discrimination of Human Rights and Discrimination may refer to a social or any aspect. What is the competent institution? Is that OHR, is that this, is all the political parties they have when registering have committed to respect human rights, the Constitutional Court, the Constitution of BiH, the European Convention and all international acts. I ask a strategic question, because it is not defined by the Law of Elections, because it can happen and political parties happen by harshly violating their statutes and acts of discrimination. Without going into discretion, political parties, organs, I think, please, individuals abuse powers in organs and can even be subjected to abuse of official powers, or criminal acts in such connotations. I'm putting this in front of this house since we've had today's debate on the highest degree of democracy. Perhaps this question of mine will serve my own party and any political party and this home, perhaps someone will comment that I have asked a very naive question, that I am politically inexperienced and that I am this, I am only principled and I ask a principled question. Finally, I am going to ask for a statement from the authorities on this issue, as my many colleagues have asked me to ask this question, ask these authorities, and ask that I also address the High Representative, the Implementation Council, the Council of Europe, is it possible in this way to discrimination, human rights violations? I would ask at least if, for the public, the distinguished Mr. Džaferović, vice president of this high house, knows in what sense I am referring to the question. I will not ask the question further, except as I will ask the largest authorities of my party to the SDA Presidency, which is why they did not respect the Statute of the Rules on the implementation of the Staff Policy and why they allowed Abdulhari šetati or many others in the private cantonal committee of the SDA to eliminate me, not even allowing me to enter the procedure of my proposal where I am proposed. Please, I'm in principle asking, that answer will depend on, please, will depend on my status. I will determine myself according to this above all, I am credible, I will not use the mandate of the SDA Party, I will use myself as a sign of human rights violations if, I will assess whether I will withdraw from the House and inform international institutions because as an MP I will not allow human rights violations, neither my or my citizens. And third, I ask the question, am I being punished for voting for amendments to the BiH Constitution? Have some who have broken the amendments been rewarded and placed on the lists? Let me answer that and let the international factors and OHR answer as well as the Implementation Council and gentlemen. I like to speak plainly and secondly, I'll be determined according to my status here. I'm not unworthy, I'm in one, I think I've respected the whole, I've expressed my opinion, please allow the chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24991	I ask the representatives to listen to Mr. Sipović. I've warned you several times, please these are questions. Please, Mr. Sipović, here's to your point. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24992	Please, here are the questions, I'm asking the principle question. Whether the chairman, when I took an oath here, I swore I would respect the Constitution, the European Convention, the equality of citizens, human rights, the BiH Constitution and BiH laws. And in this principle, I worked and worked on the project all the time and supported the project towards the EU and all other strategic laws, except for some of my opinions and courts and taking certain principled views. It can be checked in a stenogram. From that point of view, please, perhaps, I would like the voters who gave me the vote, and unfortunately, I only came to this Parliament in January with a set of circumstances, and I am acting as a volunteer under the age of four months. Could I, as an MP and within my own party, respect, respect the Party of Democratic Action, but I will never allow individuals to violate my human rights and MPs who have given me the trust of citizens. Can I represent the interests of citizens under such pressure? That's some questions. Perhaps the questions that many here will be funny, perhaps some of the conceits of this, will have a smile but I sacrifice myself, the principle, my further destiny in political work, by sacrificing for the progress of democracy both in my own party and perhaps for other parties and in this House, wanting the well-being of this people and these citizens and this state. I've always been in principle for it, and I don't want to bear all the coincidences. And if my victim contributes to the tape of light to democracy, I will be, I will do a great deed. I may not be as pragmatic as many, but believe me, honestly, credible, and time will show how persistent I am in everything and what I am doing and what I am doing. Time will show everything if my statement was well-intentioned for both general democracy and in this parliament and the citizens of BiH. But I am, the citizens who have entrusted me with my mandate, I want to inform you that if I stay in Parliament, that I will try, if I cannot, I will finely withdraw and inform all international factors. And, I'm sorry, please, dear colleagues. I'm honestly a little bit, honestly speaking with a lot of emotions, with a lot of little human experience, it's not my attitude now because of some sick ambitions that I care about so far, I don't care anymore, but I want to say that I won't let the public know what happened and what's happening to many, I'm not saying on behalf of my Mr. President, I'm not just talking on behalf of my own, on behalf of other party members, political parties who also asked me if the political party can discriminate in such a brutal way? But to remove my proposal, not to discuss at all, as if no request had come at all, without any of the authorities answering the appeal or complaint. If so, I think you can also violate human rights in that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24993	All right, Mr. Sipović, thank you. Here, I think it's given enough time to explain your question. Let's move on. Next was Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Let Mr Ibrahim Đedović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24994	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, let me just ask a very short question. 9 We have all received conclusions from the Pan European Conference held in Sarajevo from 18 to 20. 05th and they were also delivered to the Council of Ministers. When will the Council of Ministers consider these conclusions and when will we get information about them? The explanation is very short. The conclusions specify some of the important issues for BiH and its maritime infrastructure such as the Vc transport corridor, the construction of the Komarna-Peljesac bridge, and thus the production of this maritime part of BiH strategy for the development of Neum and maritime orientation. These issues have one, I consider one of the key to BiH at the moment and as such should be considered as soon as possible. I think I'm expecting an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24995	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Next is Mr. Đedović. Let Mr. Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24996	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, I will be very brief. It's a matter of the Council of Ministers. Is it true that BiH citizens who are staying and working in Italy have to take a driving test again regardless of the years of work and the categories they own? In particular, it falls into the eyes of the fact that only BiH citizens must do so, unlike the citizens of all other countries created by the former SFRY. If that is true, why is it that and what the competent institutions plan to do, to equalise the rights of our citizens with the rights of other citizens created by the former SFRY without speaking about others? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24997	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kunić. Let Mrs. Perkanović prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24998	Dear gentlemen, I'd like to ask the next question. Which is why civil servants and employees working at the former RS Ministry of Defence after the creation of the single BiH Ministry have fewer salaries and other contributions than other civil servants and employees, even though they are in the same rank, so they have the same status, the same expertise, etc.? I think it's one discriminatory act and if the law regulates it, of course it's anti-constitutional. And second question, How did the delegation take place, please, the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH to the Cantonal Court of Tuzla when his jurisdiction, when there is no jurisdiction, resulted in the arrest, violation of real and local jurisdiction by the Cantonal Court of Tuzla, 10 acts in the area of Zvornik? Namely, the BiH Court does not have the authority to delegate jurisdiction. And in this case, he has delegated jurisdiction, so he violated the BiH Court Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u24999	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. The word has Mrs. Perkanović. Have Mr. Lozančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25000	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I request information from the BiH Ministry of Security regarding the crime that took place in the village of Nemila near Zenica on the night between 1st and 2nd December 2005. On that occasion, Bogdan Urić was a Srbin, 81 years old, attacked and killed in a ferocious manner in his house where he lived alone after his wife died. According to pathologists, death came from a series of blunt force traumas. From the house, as it is learned from the newspapers and from the families, nothing has been taken away. I wonder who the unsub is or who the perpetrators are and with what motive? I note that by the war in the village of Nemili, there were about 60 households of Serbian nationality and that only 5 households remained after the persecution in the war and only the elderly. There's no way back. This news echoed frightening among those who remained there and lived, those five households of the nursing population and also echoed among those far from the village of Nemila who may have had the will or desire to return to their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25001	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. The word is Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25002	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the reason for asking today's question is the conversation with many employees of the arms and military equipment industry, and specifically with the company's "Vitezit" Knight, and knowing the situation in the arms and military equipment industry, it is likely so in all businesses in BiH. In fact, these people have long been below the edge of existence. There are, there are opportunities to revalitalise industry, the dedicated industry and to revive this branch that is very profitable in the world. Before the war, BiH had a total industry of 48.6%, and most of all it was the industry of military equipment and weapons production, although it was quite specific about the earlier organisation of military companies and very rarely in one company was a complete product. Today, we have military companies in entities and that mostly entity governments are unable to pay debts to companies created in the early and post-war period, so that we have a completely suppressed production in these companies and the survival of these companies is further devastated to maybe disappear somewhere or be this one, the tycoon prey. In the world it is known that the profitable branch is the production of military equipment, military equipment and weapons, so that the developed countries of the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, Russia, in this area achieve high employment and high profitability. For example. The data that in '97 on the world market were gunned down 11 estimated to be the value of total turnover of $3.9 billion, says the Council of Ministers should coordinate more seriously and talk to entity governments and have a strategy, how to revive military companies and start working and earning employees. I think it is possible, and here there is one concern of the Council of Ministers about the situation in the military industry, especially that earlier there is one debt to BiH that is about $250m in the former Yugoslavia's premises, claims are military industries. Well, my question is for the Council of Ministers. What is the Council of Ministers doing to collect the pre-war claim of the Bosnian-Herzegovina military industry of over 250 million? I think that these claims and part of the collection could solve the big problems they have in the military industry, and especially since this branch is this, today so neglected by us, regardless of what the system was built, what it had experts, we can't even do regular remonts of this, for the defence ministry's combat funds and the BiH Army, but we're paying for the repairs to foreign companies and we have this many claims and we could start production that would be profitable and that they could live in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25003	Thank you very much, Mr. Lozančić. The word has Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25004	Thank you very much. I thank my colleagues, Džaferović and Džedović for updating the two issues I have raised in my time. I only mention this because people, especially when the word is Ugor and they've contacted me these days and I intend to ask that question myself, but here it is, and I only support it myself. I've decided to ask one question about my assessment that we are inefficiently using available funds, or it would be good to consider perhaps long-term borrowing in a particular area. What's this about? Almost every year, especially in the spring and autumn, many Bosnian herbic rivers pour out and flood both large areas of land processed and unprocessed, as well as a large number of residential and business facilities. The consequences are huge, significant financial and material damage and sometimes human casualties. The immediate cause is here a few days ago the spill of the river Usora but let's remember the spilling of the river Presrece, Sana, Une I don't already know which all the way here in the vicinity of Sarajevo Railways etc. In recent years, I have tried to initiate direct contacts with the authorities, a kind of policy in principle, better to be in debt in the long term and to invest in the regulation of river streams and thus protect the property and lives of people than in our moneylessness, ineffectively and in vain with domestic modest means and opportunities only partially repair the damage that is repeated year after year. Therefore, I ask the question and initiate through the Council of Ministers and competent entity bodies, and even lower bodies, why, instead of being in vain under quotes, throwing money through unimaginable partial resolution of the consequences, rational long-term borrowing and adequate investment, do not eliminate the causes of floods? Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25005	I thank Mr. Ćeman. I don't have any more applications for representation issues and I'm closing the debate on the second item of the agenda. I thank everyone for asking the question. She'll be forwarded. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. That's Ad.3. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach an Agreement on the Effort of Representative Jeline Đurković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Central Bank Act in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I remind you that Mrs Jeline Đurković's request at the last session did not receive an entity majority, the College agreed. The College report you received. There's no consent from the College. And at this point, we're going to a statement in the second round. I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25007	Total vote is then two-thirds, total. Must have it again
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25008	He doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25009	Yes, it is from the beginning for, uh, abstention and we get the total majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25010	Okay. So now we're voting on no, please. The request, we vote on Jeline Đurković's request to consider the Prolongation of the Law on Central Bank, under procedure 104 in the second round. What did I say? That's what I said. But we should all vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25011	We have to. To implement a complete procedure to see if he's got the total majority, in that overall majority it's important to determine whether 2/3 of the entity is,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25012	Okay. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. Mr. Novaković, I'm five minutes and three times, just to clarify everything, if we have to. That has nothing to do with my explanation. It may be an absorption capacity, as Van Der Liden said. We'll repeat the plea. Is there any need to explain? 13 So we naturally declare ourselves individually about the requirement to propose a law amending the Central Bank Act. I konstatirati that he has not received the required majority of this request and this law goes to the draft law to go to regular procedure. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The Commission's report to the College on the attempt to reach an agreement on the request of MP Momčilo Novaković to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on concessions of BiH under the shortened procedure 104. Rules of Procedure Also, at the last session, this request by Mr. Novaković was not received by the entity majority, no agreement has been reached in the College and we are now repeating the same procedure as on the previous point. I ask the representatives to declare this request to Mr. Novaković. Stand by. Vote now. So the same situation for this request of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on concessions of Representative Momčilo Novaković goes into regular procedure. We're going to the fifth point, that's Ad.5. Report from the Commission from the College on the effort to reach the Agreement on the Report of the Research Commission on the examination of activities related to the construction of the Customs Terminal in Tuzla
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25015	Please, same procedure... let's see if the decision has passed because this is the second round of voting. Apply Rules of Procedure, Article 65(4).
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25016	Please just one second let Branka explain, and we'll repeat the vote. Here you go, Branka. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25017	Please, just a minute. I can see there's tiredness, but it'll hold. So we're voting on the second round of the Commission's report on the terminal. Since last session's report didn't get an entity majority, we're voting for, against, abstention, to see if it's got the total majority, the common one, and then in that overall majority, we see if it has 2/3 against. This is Article 65(4). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25018	Thank you very much. So let's move on to a statement on the report of the investigation committee. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that the Commission's report, in connection with the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzla, was accepted in the second round of voting. We move to the sixth item of the agenda, which is Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers, Šefik Džaferović, Branka Todorović and Nikola Špirić – an incursion – is misunderstood. We have an interpretation that we can't make a statement about this later. It's the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. If you need clarification, Mr. Andrić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25020	I suggested supplementing the conclusion and the last time we wanted to vote before, about that supplement, then we said we wouldn't vote before we voted after the report. The report didn't receive the necessary majority of the entity, and that's where we broke up. Now it's staying, so it's left unsettled. I'd like to ask if there's an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25021	Okay, here at Mr. Andrić's request, I'd like the Secretary of the House to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25022	I'm just asking you to follow me a little bit so we don't get into some kind of dilemma when we're done with this. We have now adopted a Commission report with two conclusions. I'm in charge of conclusion number two. Because your conclusion if it were the subject of a plea would derivate conclusion number two. The conclusion of number 2 that we have already adopted – given the number of failures that followed the tendering procedures, and the decision to choose the most favourable bidder, it would be good to suspend further activities in the implementation of the decision on the choice of the most favourable bidder until the end of the procedure referred to in point 1 of this conclusion. And this one, point one of this conclusion is the Home rating that this subject should be granted to the SIP. Dear Representative Mr. Andrić, he asks to be behind the word of the bidder, so I point out point two to you and add – 15 to cancel the tender for lease from 21.03.2005, and find the possibility to build a terminal owned by the state and delete the rest of the text. We would come to contradiction by adopting this conclusion. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25023	Then it's a business mistake. It was supposed to be voted before the completion of my conclusion and then on the overall report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25024	We've had a concise report from the Interim Commission that was working on the terminal and he's the subject of consent. And the component of that report is this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25025	So the motion to amend and supplement my conclusion that I made, he couldn't get into the procedure at all. Is he in the process? Yes, it is. He had to be made known before and then a total.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25026	Well, listen, it wouldn't be the Commission's findings anymore. But they're in collegiate with each other. I mean, we should clear that up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25027	Zorić, did you ask for a word? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25028	I'd just like it to be established here. Obviously, this point is over, but it's been determined that someone was wrong. But if it wasn't Filip Andrić. That it was probably the Secretary of the House who was supposed to warn about what to do until the point was finished. Filip can't tell who's in favor of my conclusion, who's against, who's abstention. Someone should have asked, or warned Mr Raguž, who is leading this session that this should be done before the full report is declared. I don't think Mr. Andrić should insist on it right now, but that it's being found here in writing that a mistake has been made but not by the error of a representative and not by the error of this home. Our counsel actually. Someone made a mistake in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25029	So listen, I really have no intention of defending myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25030	Here you go, Branka. I think that this is about the weaknesses of the Rules of Procedure, because we were first on the Commission's conclusions, and we were not allowed to vote after business to supplement the conclusions because the Commission's report did not pass. And I don't see what kind of failure it's possible to make except for the fact that we have a weakness in the Rules of Procedure. Here's the thing, if not 16 goes by and there's no college consent, there's no possibility of a regular addition to the conclusion that it's even included in the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Zorić, and I'm going to ask Branko for another interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25031	Yeah, well, we're not asking anyone here to be guilty of anything, we're asking this to be a warning. When a representative asks that a conclusion be drawn on some agenda point, that conclusion goes first. It's like an amendment. And then it's said who's for the report with this extra conclusion. And it can't be when the report is passed, who's for something else, we'll change something. I think we've all made a mistake, here if it's easier to share the responsibility, why didn't the change or the additional conclusion vote first, and then about something that's one whole, and that would fall into that whole if you got the necessary majority here in this home. That's it. We don't want anyone, to say Pedro, to blame, to hang. That doesn't make any sense, but here's to learn something from this lesson for the next reports. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25032	I can really accept what Mr. Zorić said as a real relationship to this situation. If you want more about this, there was no meaning here for any intention, but it's simply such a procedure and way of handling so that I really pray that these situations are not repeated because here we see what happens if you don't pre-set the representatives' demands on the plea because by a negative relationship to the report these requirements are automatically excluded later. Phillip, do you want anything else here? I don't know what to say. Okay, thank you very much. We're going to the sixth point, that's Ad.6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure I'll remind you, 22.06. The Council of Ministers delivered this bill with a request for procedure 104. You've got the materials. I'm opening a motion hearing. Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25034	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't think this really makes any sense. This really doesn't make sense for BiH citizens to work. Customs tariff is a serious matter. To seek the procedure of a member of 104th without having anyone from the Council of Ministers, to at least say what is the reason for the urgency of the procedure, and you have dozens of MPs' demands to change it, they simply won't respond in time. 17 I am in favour of not discussing this point until the Council of Ministers attends the next session. Well, we've allowed such an evasive relationship, as you believe, nowhere in the world exists. There's no reason to do this to ourselves. I beg you, therefore, it is my suggestion that we do not plead on this point, that it be at the next session, until the Council of Ministers deigns to explain at least their request for an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25035	I'm asking the MPs, this is where we vote the procedure. If you are not in agreement with the reality of the request, please identify yourself. Therefore, to be rational, we have the opportunity to accept a shortened procedure and refuse to go into regular procedure. So it's a legitimate request and legal. Giospođa Majkić, then Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25036	I just want to remind myself that this is in line with Parliament's decision and that this law changes and complements the import of meat, or those quotas that Parliament has been having a very intense discussion about. I think it's, it's late, but it's better now than never because four times the imports so far, four times the quotas are down to two a year. This helps domestic processors, and I think that this recommendation should be adopted by urgent procedure, only because it is a request from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25037	I thank Mrs. Majkić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25038	Well, here is in favor of fellow fellow Špirić's request, I am really joining you, and regardless of what may be considered urgent or not, this request from the Council of Ministers, but here is the President of the Resorship Commission, Mr Kunić, who is currently absent, would probably provide you with an explanation that at the meeting of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, we had absolutely no one from the Council of Ministers or the Resord Ministry even though we had a customs tariff on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25039	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. We are voting on a procedure under Article 104. Chairman, you've got command over there. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25040	Please make your point. So the request has a general but no entity majority. We're moving on to a match. It shall be left for 3 days within the time limit of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. The request of a representative of the Sopta ruža to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH also under procedure 104. This request was delivered by Mrs. Sopta on 21.06. You also got the material on time. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Sopta, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25042	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I have actually passed the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act because I was approached by one company, a young company producer. It is a product for which we do not have any entities that produce in the BiH area. It is a word of clothing diapers and the need so far for BiH to deal with imports. The fact is that import products are not charged, so import products are exempt from customs duties. The second is the fact that the countries in the environment that have the production are organised and also have imports of raw materials without customs duties. Thirdly, as an argument, I say that 60% of this production is intended for export. I have three reasons to free this from customs payments and that the competition from imports reacted highly, and I have a letter that after my law was passed to unfair competition, she sent a letter to all distributors to lower prices by 15%. So she's doing the dumping price to choke the production that she just set up in our country. I also note that the Implicit Taxation Authority could not count on these revenues, as there was no income on this basis last year because there was no organised production either. Production didn't start until this year. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you to have understanding, to make sure that we preserve one production entity which is also of an export character but a production entity that can subscribe to very high quality products that has received special recognition in Paris as one of the best products of that kind and which is distributed on the European market, are even better than the pampers. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25043	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. So, we are pleading on the request of the representative of ruža Sopta, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Vote now. I agree that with 31 votes for, 1 against, without the votes of the abstentioned, enough entity majority, we have accepted this request from Parliament's representative, ruža Sopta, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of BiH in accordance with the shortened procedure, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to the eighth point. That's Ad.8. Momčilo for Novaković proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Defence Act under the procedure of Article 104. You've got these materials. I'm opening a motion hearing. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25045	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. In fact, it is an attempt to equalise the application of the law to all those who, through defence reform, have practically remained in exactly the same position. This is about a group of people who were employed at the Ministry of Defense, or, in the military, so-called. the civil service of the military period and which have practically remained in relation to these others in an unequal position to the legal provisions. So here's the intention, these people don't have much, according to an estimate of something more than 180, about 183 more specifically said persons who would be equated with this to their workmates who have already worked with the Ministry of Defense and the Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25046	Thank you very much. Are there more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to make a statement on Mr. Novaković's request that this proposal for a law supplementing the Defence Act be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. 20 Stand by. Vote now. So with 20 gases for, 2 against, 6 abstentions, enough entity majority, this request by Mr. Momčilo Novaković was accepted. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH in accordance with the procedure of Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Proposal for this law, you received 29.06. as a request for a shortened procedure under Article 104. I'm opening a motion hearing. Mr. Nikola Špirić is the first to sign in, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25048	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have accepted the procedure of the Members who have proposed the procedure, the shortened procedure of Article 104. I think this is about seriousness, but even though it's important laws, we should follow the logic of the previous vote when it comes to the Council of Ministers at point 9 and point 10. And I'm going to make a statement like that and I think we have to, no matter what this is short notice, get the Council of Ministers to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25049	We heard Mr. Špirić. Anybody else want some? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the request that, just a little bit, I apologize to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship by the Council of Ministers to be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. I find this demand with 21 votes to, 7 against, 2 abstentions, enough entity majority accepted. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in BiH is also under the procedure of Article 104. There was a proposal for this law as well as a request for procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 21 I ask the MPs to declare this request to the Council of Ministers. Stand by. Vote now. I find that with 20 votes in favour of, 5 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority, the Council of Ministers has accepted that the proposal for a law on medicines and medical remedies in BiH be considered in accordance with the shortened procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. Momčilo for Novaković Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes should be considered after 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25052	Since the way it was written is therefore the law and it is not seen enough about what it is. It is that according to one analysis that I have come up with, the tax to discharge from BiH citizenship is far greater than other countries, so let's say, just for example, we have 1,700 marks, while in Serbia 200 euros. I want to say my intention if it was our intention to keep the people in BiH because we're going to charge them dearly for their leave of citizenship, then we've been very wrong. We're just going to stay in the memory of what we're going to be means. That is why the proposal is therefore to reduce these fees in order to simply bring it to the country level in the environment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25053	We heard Mr. Novaković. Is there more? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on Mr. Novaković's request to consider this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes by 104. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that with 23 votes in favour of, 6 against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, this request was accepted by MP Momčilo Novaković. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's 22 Ad.12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Injurement by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, in the first reading The proposal for this law was decided at the 79th session to follow the procedure of Article 104. Opinion on the Constitutional and Legal Committee's proposal on legal basis was delivered to us on 27.06. and as a relevant report of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, 29.06. You saw from the report that the Constitutional Commission adopted only one amendment as relevant. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the Privilege of this Law on the admission of the case by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and on the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts of BiH in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. In agreement with the 31st vote, we accepted the bill's proposal in the first reading. I suggest we make it clear that we're going to another reading. I ask MPs to prepare for the second reading vote. Vote now. A second reading proposal. I find that with 31 votes for, just one vote against, without abstentions, we accept going to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on the admission of objects to a second reading. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 32 votes, we have adopted the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Court of Justice of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before BiH courts in both readings. I thank the MPs. We're going to the 13th agenda, that's 23rd Ad.13. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH with Report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Proposed by Mr Momčilo Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25059	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the chairman noted, we accepted the resignations of three members of this committee, the Office of Appeals at the last session. I am then, to remind you,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25060	Please, MPs, if you asked us to work, then be collegiate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25061	So I was then against accepting such simple resignations without any valid explanation by the Council of Ministers that the problems were defacto in that office that it had not yet been operational for 1.5 days after the entry into force of the Law on concessions. We didn't get any information on that. So, of the five members of the Management Board, we have three resignations accepted at the last session. Now we are offered one solution to get to number three and a half of some kind of provision whether the law is still some possible functioning of that office. I'm afraid this is a temporary and bad solution, and today I'm at an extended college, but it would be good to postpone today's statement on this appointment and indeed seek a qualitative solution. I'm afraid we haven't solved the problem with this appointment. Here I would recommend we postpone this appointment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25062	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Nikola Špirić picked up the phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25063	The Šefik throws it away because he doesn't have a proposal this time, it's not the only reason. I think that this parliamentary assembly, and I will agree with my colleague Križanović, has easily accessed all appointments coming from the Council of Ministers. It is unacceptable for the Council of Ministers to propose people whose function is in conflict of interest, that within 2 months for such an important body, such an important body loses 3 members and that we now choose the third to God so that it can function. If the Council of Ministers cared that this was working, we would have filled all five members today. And that is why I think that, with all the respect of the candidate who has been proposed, we should wait for the Council of Ministers to fill in, it is therefore a matter of appointing the Office to consider the wishes of 26 areas of public procurement, transport and strategic business management. And I have to say, there's a general anarchy. If this is looking for cover that only wheel turns, this is good. But I don't think, I think we had to look for a reason, and we got public defenders in these places. Remember. So all of them, one by one, gave up, for he chose what was better for him as the honey rotted the pears. This one's bigger, softer and better. That's where I'll leave this for you, the Council of Ministers. It is only a sign that the Council of Ministers has approached this in the way it has otherwise approached the appointments. I think this should be completed for the next session if they care that it works. If they care about guessing, here's what I can get a three to guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25064	Thank you very much. Up here, I'm sending greetings to give us a break so we can finish this session in peace. So, have there been any further reports of discussion on this matter? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We agreed on an extended college to put this on the agenda today, and I ask that we stick to this conclusion of the extended College, which was reached by consensus, and to make a statement on this proposed candidate by asking for a hasty addition and completion of the remaining seats of the Council of Ministers. Please prepare and make a statement on the proposal to appoint Mr. Ranko Krsman in this office, according to your proposal and resume, as you have received. I'm asking the MPs to vote. Vote now. So, with 24 votes for, 3 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority, the House of Representatives appointed Mr. Rank Krsman as a member of the Board of Appeals and thus, and with this conclusion that I suggested we move to the 17th, last item of the agenda of today's session of the House of Representatives. That's Ad.17. Appointment of four members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service and the determination of the duration of their mandate Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have, on several occasions, had this item on the agenda and each time we reminded you of the provisions of the Law on Public TV Service relating to the appointment of members of the Management Board and I hope there is no need to do so this time. 27 This time on our request by the Regulatory Agency, all the necessary information has been delivered that opens the assumptions that we are deciding today. Now I'm just going to remind you that we need to appoint three board members, one in a row of each of the three constituent nations and one in a row of others, so four, so I said. To appoint four members of the Management Board, one from all three constituent nations and one from among others, with 2 from the Federation and 2 from the RS. It is important to remind you of the provision of Article 26. The Law on Public TV Service which regulates the duration of the term of office. So it is prescribed that the term of office of members of the Management Board is four years. However, when the Management Board is first established, members of the Management Board will be appointed as follows, and (a) one member every 4 years, (b) one member at 3 years, (c) one member at 2 years and (d) one member per year, he was elected from the order of members of the local board of the Public TV Service of BiH. So we have one member from the ranks of members of the current Management Board and his term of office is set to 1 year, in order to ensure the continuity of the Committee's work. We are finally 25 on the first of this month (?) received complete material removing all doubts regarding the procedure. We have been informed by the Regulatory Agency that Mr. Plamenko Čustović remains from the existing Management Board and that the other members of the existing Management Board have not even participated in the competition. So we have a ranking list of all three constituent nations according to the results that have been achieved and the requirements that have been at the competition. The rank list is next, candidates from the Serb people's ranks, 1st Mr. Nikola Deretić, 2nd Mr. Ranko Risojević. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Marija Putica, 2. Miroslav Landeka. The Bible’s Viewpoints, 1 / 1 Nada Milošević, 2. Despotović Majda, both from the RS candidate from the Bosniak People's Order, 1. Plamenko Čustović 28 We are considering the commitment to the duration of the mandate and how to implement the schedule in the first composition of this committee at the College agreed that the duration of the term of office will be as follows, the candidate from the Croatian people's first term will go to 4 years, the candidate from the order of the Serb people 3, from the other 2 and This, appointed from the Bosniak people 1 year later, will be appointed as a new one, with a full term. Now we need to move on to a statement on this. Would you like to have a discussion? Okay. At the request of Mr Špirić and here's the logic, if you need to spread. Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25066	Actually, I don't have a debate, I have one question that's important for Parliament to make the right decision, but it could be the Regulatory Agency, someone to answer us, candidates or someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-1.u25067	Is there more to be discussed? We have so far asked the Regulatory Agency and there is a real warning from earlier, almost two months ago that we have exceeded the law and appointment deadline by the Office of the High Representative and I really ask that today we declare this, so if there are any other requests for an explanation let everyone do their job. I'm asking you to move on to a plea. Since an agreement has been reached to assign the first term of four years to the candidate of the Croatian people, I suggest we first declare candidate number 1 from the Croatian people. It's Mrs. Marija Putica. I'm asking the representatives for a plea. Vote now. So I agree with 33 votes for, without votes against, one abstention, that Mrs. Marija Putica was appointed member of the Governing Board of the Croatian Peoples with a term of four years. We move to a statement on a Serbian people's candidate with a 3-year term. The first on that ranking list is Mr. Nikola Deretić. 29 I ask the representatives to prepare and vote on this proposal. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour of, 4 against, 5 abstentions, I find that for a member of the board of directors of the Serbian people for a term of three years, the gentleman is appointed, do you want me to repeat? If you're looking for no, it's up to you. Please repeat your statement on the Serbian people's candidate. So we're voting first on the candidate under regular number one, that's Mr. Nikola Deretić. Vote now. With 23 votes in favour of, 4 against, 4 abstentions and enough majority, this candidate has been appointed member of the Management Board for a term of 3 years. We move to a statement from the order of the others, under number 1. This is Mrs. Nada Miletić, Milošević, forgive me. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 28 votes for, without votes against, 4 abstentions, I find that Mrs Nada Milošević has been appointed as a member of the Management Board of the others. We're moving on to a statement about a candidate from the Bosniak people's order. It's Mr. Plamenko Čustović. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. I find that with 30 votes for, without votes against, 2 abstentions, a member of the Bosniak People's Management Board is appointed Mr. Plamenko Čustović. All candidates under regular number 1 have received a majority, so I will conclude that for members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service appointed Marija Putica for the term of office of 4 years, Nikola Deretić for the term of office of 3 years and Nada Milošević for the term of office of 2 years and Plamenko Čustović for the term of office of 1 year 30 We have implemented the full agenda of the 82nd session and I am now concluding the work of the 82nd session of the House of Representatives, noting that we will hold the next session around 22-23rd of this month. Thank you very much. The session ended at 4:15 p.m.
