ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5824	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 57th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are 12 delegates, of which 4t from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, and 3 from the Serb people. Gospoda Milojević, Neimarlija and Pajić are absent for justified reasons. For the 57th session, I propose the next agenda. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 56th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit of the Solid Waste Management Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, 4. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, 5. Giving consent to ratification between the Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the extension of the donated assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001, 6. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on the loan of regional railway projects between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 7. Giving consent to the ratification of Protocol 14 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the addition of a system for the control of the implementation of the Convention, 8. Hilmo Neimarlija delegates' request to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. Request by the Council of Ministers to examine the draft adoption law in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. Request for consideration of the draft law on classification of activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. Proposal for a verification and settlement law based on an old foreign exchange account, first reading, 12. Proposal for a law on, Proposal for a Decision establishing a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. Appointment of members of the Commission for the selection of the main source and deputy chief auditor. 2 I want to tell you that this read agenda fully covered all the points that you have also received in your agenda. But this is, this is now a bit of a changed agenda, namely, the order of the dots. And I also want to say right away that I got the information late that there's no Mr. Neimarlija and that this point that's read under regular number 8. Hilmo Neimarli's Neimarlija to consider the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, because Mr Hilmo Neimarlija's proponent is not present at this session, we will take this law, this request by Mr Neimarlija, off the agenda as well, because he has accepted such a situation. Here, we heard the agenda. Is there a change, is there any proposal for changes and additions to the agenda? There isn't. Thank you. So here's what we're going to do on this agenda. The first item of the agenda is Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Issues and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5827	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the international community, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and public information funds, I welcome you all together and I use the opportunity to ask two parliamentary questions, of course to the Council of Ministers. 1.When Bosnia and Herzegovina will ratify the Social Charter of the Council of Europe and 2. Who in his drawer has kept a hidden decision in place for more than two years on the ratification of the Social Charter of the Council of Europe whose proposal was also set by the Office of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5828	Thank you, that's the question, we heard. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Thank you very much. Second item of the agenda, Ad.2. A record from the 56th session of the House of Peoples Any objections to the record? As far as I can tell, it's gone. 3 Please here we have our charts to vote on. Who's for the record? Thank you very much. Unanimity. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit of the Solid Waste Management Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5833	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present, so this is a common agreement that is significant and very useful for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it allows them to use documents in one, or another country without the need for additional certification, confirmation, etc. It enables them to communicate more easily in terms of language and in any case, the Commission has proposed that it be ratified. However, on this occasion, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Commission is aware of the fact that there is still no person in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in charge of being a depositary of international contracts and that there is not even room for such activity. So far, Bosnia and Herzegovina has signed over several thousand international agreements, agreements, conventions, etc. We have a daily obligation to communicate time limits, to accept deadlines, to communicate with international institutions and within and in this sense our commission has proposed to the House, we propose to the distinguished colleagues to reach a conclusion that will require the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish, in the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, depositary and space, i.e. satisfying the conditions for the work of such an office, such as one office, offices, offices, offices, however you wish to organise the job more adequately. If the problem is the issue of the interior organisation of the foreign ministry, we think it is a serious issue and that it should be updated at the Council of Ministers, so if it is necessary to make this clear to the House itself. On the other hand, we want to say that we are disappointed by the fact that there is no such office, so today you will still have one agreement signed in May 2003, and here you may receive ratification today. So these are simply inadmissible things. The other day, I had the opportunity in Vienna to ask me a question about the Convention on Nuclear Trials, all nuclear testing and after checking my memory, but above all an effective response from the Commission's Secretary, Ms. Nevenka Savić, I was able to inform the people of that agency that Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified the agreement, that convention in early October 2005. People said Bosnia and Herzegovina is the last to ratify it to come into effect. In early October, Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified it. On March 20th, March 28th this year, they still didn't know that. Therefore, it is obvious that a more efficient organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and more efficient work is needed. Unless we have a person in charge of such an important function as the depositary of international contracts and monitoring in that part of the obligations that are growing and increasingly significant, because we already have contracts in which we place reserves of limitations, etc. We'll have to follow what we've done. We're going to have to react to that and so in order that, I don't know how we can continue to be effective. In this regard, we propose to our distinguished colleagues that one such conclusion be accepted and that, indeed, the most serious request is for this issue to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5834	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Čengić on behalf of the Commission. 5 First I put the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia to vote. Please vote now. So unanimous. Secondly, I am putting on the vote by Mr Čengić that, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Čengić, the Commission should be asked by the Council of Ministers to appoint the person responsible for monitoring international agreements and international contracts signed by this government, or this Parliament, as soon as possible. Please, who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. The third point, i.e. the fifth point of the agenda, is Ad.5. Giving consent to ratification between the Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the extension of donated assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001 You have a report from the authorities. Is there any need for Hasana to address you? Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5836	So this is an agreement that, by its financial meaning, is relatively small. But what's really important is that if we wait another month, we'll celebrate exactly the three-year anniversary of his signing, not the ratification. It's another sign that we approach in a way to some of the questions. So even when it comes to donations, it takes us three years to rate. In May 2003, this agreement was signed. I once again use the opportunity, Mr. Perković is here, he's explained it to us on the Commission twice, I'm using the opportunity of his presence here to invite him to take another look at all those drawers there. I ask you to organize a Saturday or a week to search all the drawers and to shake out and put them in one place and at least as a priority, start from 2001 so we can get to some point to try to clean it up and organize it, because it really is something that has nothing to do with it standing so long that it's amazing. I know that Mr. Perković has accelerated the whole process with his arrival. That's why you have a dozen agenda points here today. But it's really about time and I think it would be time, I would ask my colleague Filipović, as an experienced man and a lawyer, to come up with some technology that we would invite people from a great authority to be responsible, or make them truly responsible. But effectively responsible for why something's three years late. It's, look out, it's really amazing. We will open the second issue at the next item of the agenda, and this is a question of the presence of the promoter. Whoever solves that issue in this country deserves a Nobel Prize bid. 6 How to arrange for a proposing representative to be present on committees at the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5837	Thank you very much. We heard Mr Čengić's presentation on behalf of the Commission, one part of the Commission, one part in person. And here I am putting to the vote, if there is no discussion I am putting this granting of approval for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the extension of the donation to Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001, to the vote. Please vote. Unanimity. Thank you very much. It's the sixth item of the agenda, Ad.6. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on the loan of regional railway projects between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to this ratification. And I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5839	So here we have an extremely important loan contract, which is worth up to 70m euros, which is provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The credit is intended for the reconstruction and reconstruction of railway infrastructure and concerns reconstruction of railways, electricity lines, reconstruction of signal network, telecommunications, etc. The Treaty itself also provides concrete activities in this business, as foreseen that this total sum can be distributed in a way that is set aside for the Federation by 42m euros, and 28m euros should go to Republika Srpska, i.e. for infrastructure in both territory and the other. The contract here precisely defines the principles of interest accounting, the method of calculating interest. The funds can begin to be withdrawn this year, and they may be withdrawn by about half of 2009 for a year and then the repayment of the loan begins. In essence, the interest rate is therefore the usual interest rate of this bank and around this part there is nothing controversial. The only question remains who and how this contract represents. We had a debate on the Commission, we didn't have a proposing representative. We don't have a proposing representative here again, and we have a series of questions. So, there is a very serious question -- in what way and under what circumstances do the railways operate in Bosnia and Herzegovina territory? As far as we know, there are still three state-owned companies that are operators. On the other hand, the question arises as far as the 7th process of implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways Act, which envisions the establishment of a railway company. And finally, according to the information available to these railway companies, the state made significant losses in the last year despite the fact that entities have secured certain funds to help repair the infrastructure. The railroad is very important. There is no serious development of the economy in one state without railways, on the other hand there are indications that the use of railways from year to year is increasing when it comes to domestic economy, but it is obvious that our railways do not have such technical characteristics that they would be attractive to a larger international space that could be connected, for example. Port of Ploče with Central Europe, etc. Of course this loan is extremely important and welcome. Of course, it will be one of the loans needed to raise Bosnia and Herzegovina's railway infrastructure to a more quality level, so that it can meet standards and be competitive and attractive. I say, here's the basic question for you to discuss at the Council of Ministers. We have a proposing representative in the image of the foreign ministry. The contract was signed by the finance minister on behalf of the finance ministry and the vault. This is an essential matter of communication and transit. So for the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but here we are obviously not interesting, because as long as we meet this home, or these next home, this upper house of Lords has no attention from the Council of Ministers which is obviously busy there on the other side, or are possibly busy with lunch at lunch break. These are very serious criticisms, these are very serious problems, and the Commission thinks that we should really try to find, if there are any other solutions that we haven't invented so far, to think of it in order to agree with the representatives of the proposings, but those ministries that are really related to, say, this question to appear here and to answer a series of details that are interesting, but we can't ask a question because we don't have who. The Commission therefore proposes that this contract, i.e. the agreement, be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5840	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here we are. Any objections. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5841	As well as a series of contracts that respected colleagues from Bosnia and Herzegovina sign and burden our future with the return of these contracts and in this contract a significant amount is foreseen in a way to allocate funds in terms of material giving and in terms of consulting services. So I would ask if there are any here to respond to purchase, install and work contracts worth 4 million euros 800 000 euros, for part 2a purchase, installation and work contracts d 2. Five million and 500 euros. Goods and services for part 4a million and 400 euros. Consultative services for part 5a 840 thousand euros. Consulan services for part 5b 720 000 euros. So, if there are any of the present or those of the proposings to answer what procurement contracts mean, what is the type of procurement, which is the type of contract, where the equipment will be purchased, whether in Bosnia and Herzegovina, does abroad, does the contract commit the borrower to a certain 8 asset, from a particular supplier must receive? Which means consulting services totalling about 3 million KM, etc.? So, if there isn't, I think we should wait for the Proposer to answer these questions and then we'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5842	We still have it. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5843	So, I'm one of those who thinks that there should be representatives here and I have absolutely no intention of trying to replace the proposing representative in any way, because his function is irrevocable. On these issues, I can only, not for the sake of Mr Genjac who obviously read everything, but for the sake of everyone together to say that in the annex number one description of the projects of this contract says that the funds will be used, number 1 for the reconstruction of the railway on the Kostanica-Jovaka, Konjic-Mostar and Mostar-Capljina shares. Two resuscitations of cell and secondary signalling. Three external substations and network contacts. Four basic telecommunications devices and five design, procurement and surveillance services. What matters is in Article 5. It's a contract of law. In particular, the obligation is mentioned, therefore, in particular the obligation of the borrower, means that the Bosnian Herzegovina party must appoint and designate and sign a contract with a consulting house that will be satisfactory for the IDRD for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So which they will accept as such. One of the conditions for this contract to come into effect at all is that. The reason is very simple. Therefore, the consultant also writes precisely in the contract that the consultant must ensure such level of professional consultation and professional management in order to ensure the efficient use of the funds and to fulfil the obligations under the contract in the sense of carrying out operations and thus the possibility of returning the following. It is natural that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development does not want to give to anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina for those purposes a job if it is not sure that it has provided professional guidance, and here it writes very precisely, so consultants with international experience, a respectable international experience. This is quite natural, because it is a significant asset, because it is a matter of how these funds must be spent as prescribed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which gives money. In that sense, it is obviously not prescribed whether he is foreign or domestic, but I dare say it is hard to believe that we in Bosnia have such a consultant who could do the whole part of the job. On the other hand, there is no mention of whether equipment, material, etc. It had to be domestic or foreign. Nowhere is this conditioned, but the equipment that can function and perform tasks will obviously be obtained. Whether there are domestic equipment, I don't understand it, and I believe that the equipment will be re-produced in a manner of certain public funds. Therefore, it is not prescribed that the equipment must be purchased either by that supplier or by that country. It's absolutely not prescribed. It is not specified who should be a consultant by name and name, but it is specified that it must have international experience and precise characteristics of what it needs to know that it could be consulted and run this project so that it is fully executed in order to be able to repay the loan. 9 In that part I would not comment on the level of consultation, but let me say if we look at the level of consultation provided here and in some other credits, it seems to me that the consultations here are much more reasonable, more realistic, and I would say that they are very real. Who will get the job in particular, is it possible to include domestic knowledge, perhaps together with foreign knowledge, that is, of course, no longer a question of this high home, but it is now a question of who continues to work on the implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5844	Here's Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5845	Here, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, guests, journalists, this is a typical example of how a promoter shouldn't work. So only a contract was offered without an explanation or a written or oral one. It's about someone saying small means. They are not small funds, 70m euros are significant, but if they were smaller, this would not be the right way. So it would be logical for the applicant to give a written explanation, or at least verbally, in which at least the most important one would be contained, and that is one section of the state of the railway infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the funds for reconstruction. What is the strategic plan and strategy of reconstruction, which means the funds invested, which the objectives are achieved with these funds, etc. We don't have any of this information here, and we're required to ratify this. So that is,...a new obligation that will naturally be paid in the future and this is a classic contract, so where for the needs of the railway infrastructure is credited. He's foreign currency, but it doesn't matter, it'd even be better if he wasn't foreign exchange, because then it would be a possibility to choose and buy equipment and what's bigger. So those who need to decide or ratify this have no minimum elements to determine that quality. And that's why I don't think we have the right to agree to ratify this contract today. When we say this, then I'm also thinking about the overall situation in this area that's not good at all. Last year, our operators marked very significant losses. It is repeated year by year and it would be very interesting, here under this point to open a debate about the overall state of both the railway infrastructure and the state of transport. What is the security that is guaranteed in our rail transport, that the speeds extend to our tracks, what is the general state of the infrastructure, what is the state of the train units, etc. etc. So we don't even have a minimum of that information. And that's why I think we should act like we've done in a few cases and not ratify this one today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5846	Thank you very much. Mr. Perkanović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5847	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not know Perković, Deputy Minister for International Legal Consular Affairs at the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 10 Just to take advantage of the opportunity, so I think it is known that according to the Law on the conclusion and settlement of international contracts, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina gives an assessment of the external political justification for the conclusion of any international contracts. In this context, as well as a consistent issue on this contract, the Foreign Ministry therefore gave an assessment of foreign policy justification, the conditions for conclusion of the contract. It is clear that when it comes to the scale of the dispute it is a question from the domain of the Ministry of Transport and Communications's problem. I see here that the proposer who answered these questions eventually, which was asked by Agent Čengić, so we from the Foreign Ministry are not competent to answer them because we do not know that information. And let me take this opportunity just to say two words about the suggestions made by Mr. Čengić. We fully support only to inform this esteemed home that today at the session of the College of Foreign Affairs the depositary of international contracts will be appointed. We in the Internal Organization Regulation didn't have any space, but the Law is mandatory, the Law is stronger than the Regulations. So we can do it. And secondly, according to the conclusion of the commission of this home foreign political committee, a circular memo has been sent to all ministries at the level of the state, asking that, as soon as possible, we be provided with information on these contracts that are in the drawer. Our goal is therefore, I told the Commission that by 30.5 this year, we should clear all initial agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in conclusion by 2005, put them in the process and we will, on our part, be sure to do everything in our power and in our jurisdiction to speed up this dynamic. Thank you again for your understanding and for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5848	Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5849	I welcome you all and I'm a little surprised by Mr. Jukić's proposal. In fact, we had a meeting of the Commission today where I even suggested not to hold it, because for almost one point, it wasn't nearly, for one it was just a proposaler, for the others it wasn't. I asked you not to hold a session and if today all these points, I would want me, no, I wouldn't just want you to hear Mustafa, so I stopped. I suggested that we take all the points down practically because there are no proposings that the promoters have not arrived for. I mean, my colleagues decided not to do it anyway, and by these points, we've reached conclusions and voted they're going to the House today. That's why it's a little strange for me to think on the Commission that we should take a stand and do without a proposal, and try to take this off here today. However, I will be for principled reasons always for that when there is no proposing that we agree before, if we agree not to work or work. So every third day we set up a session until they arrive. I guess they'll be honored to come sometime. But I would really, if we were on the Commission today saying that we are adopting this, and this is a 70m-euro figure, we know that they are in losses and what is today, I loved what Velimir has proposed today on the Commission to open the problem of functioning of the railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because according to what he said today, and there are practically railways in the Federation that lose 100,000 a day, they are daily at the loss of 100,000 marks. And if there's a daily loss of 100,000 marks from day to day, there's really something that needs to be done to see what and how. I'm no expert on that, but here experts, manager. There's something that needs to be changed. But I'm willing to adopt this precisely because we're not going to put them in a more difficult situation than they are, and we're looking for solutions on that background that he's in today, and Velimir was talking to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5850	Come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5851	Here, just one little clarification. It's true what Mr. Brka said. I have been thinking about and speaking to the Commission in a said way, which is that this is still coming to the House, but I think it was an opportunity for the proposer to appear in the meantime and here in the session to explain everything that needs to be explained, and about this contract, and I think that we have done this on a few occasions in this way. I have therefore not changed my mind, and what we have agreed on on the Commission to go, yet there are all the members and the Commission in this House, and it is an opportunity for all that is not, which is missed, to possibly be done at the House, but obviously that the promoter is not in the House session either as well as at the Commission's session. So our optimism that someone would appear on behalf of the promoter in the meantime was obviously not justified. Here's my reason. Of course I haven't changed my mind at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5852	Here's my Hasan. Here I sense in a certain way the obligation to say something about this job, because it's about the job that I've been doing for ten years, and I have to say here that the railway infrastructure and all the funds on the railway are basically obtained from these loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and EUROFIME, and that's what's stated in this contract. These are usually one contract that has been working on this space for years and this way. And I think you need these bids, these will be international bids. Those international bids have the right to report to everyone. Who will be selected in competitions for international bids is determined by the European Bank because this is funded and these are the usual processes. If, if there are stakeholders from Bosnia and Herzegovina's business organisations that can be involved in these processes in these facilities, then they are hired by one who gets these jobs to work in, under this contract and in one such way by business organisations from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm inclined to claim that there is no flaw in this contract proposal. However, there is one inaccuracies that the negativity, which does not come, cannot explain, will not come to explain to the MPs. It's not enough to know only one MP, or two MPs. This should be explained to all MPs, because everyone, or MPs, because they all raise their hands and vote in favour of the project. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in favour of adopting this project, because the Bosnia and Herzegovina railways are needed on these tracks from Konjic to Capljina and from Capljina to, are in a difficult situation. The reason for the loss on that railway is because the track cannot develop a speed greater than 50 km and a daily railway for Bosnia, for Željezar Zenica and 12 Cox chemical combination drives something like 14 wagons. That railroad can't withstand that transport, it can't withstand that weight, and there's no speed and mostly no loss for that reason. So, there's enough stuff to transport. However, the economic power of the railway and its capacities are unable to withstand it. I think it is necessary to accept this and thus allow the railway to fix its rail as soon as possible and make its capacities high-quality and powerful as possible so that they can translate all the burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5853	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5854	I apologize for reporting almost three times about this, but allow me only the following. Appendix 2 said 33m euros will be spent to pay for part 1a, and another 20m euros will be spent to pay for the work for part 1.b. Since you all have some experience with how it's done, there's no dilemma that most of these jobs are going to get our domestic companies. About repairing the track, changing the rails, thresholds, etc. About repairing signalling, tightening of power lines, etc. These are all the jobs that our people do, doing our companies that did it. No strangers have ever done that. We used to do it in action, when the youngsters were doing it in the '40s. So, most of these funds, Mr. Tomislav, I don't mean me and you, but those older than us, and as far as the other one is concerned, we've been working, and you've been in charge while you've been in the party. We've been working for an ordinary people. But it doesn't matter. We'll talk about it another time. So it's quite certain that these when you add up 53 million euros should be spent on direct works that are certainly over 90% of the jobs that our companies and our people can do. So we need to be aware that it's 53 million out of 70 for this alone. So most of the funds will certainly remain for our companies and that's just enough for itself. On the other hand, by respecting everything Mr. Jukić said and the fact that none of us have yet run for this Nobel Prize called, the reason is called – bringing in a representative of the committees and the House, I think, I am taking the opportunity to ask my colleague Jukić and all of you together to ratify this contract today. I get the impression that this is about the next one, that the people's hand itch doesn't scratch, you can see very well here. The railways are now subject level. Entity level business organization. The level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers, which must be here as a proposing representative, cannot appear entities as proposing representatives, this BH level obviously does not feel that this railway is its own. So that's, forgive my expression, but that's obvious. He doesn't feel it for himself, and it's no problem for him to go to the turkey downstairs at a time when we're discussing this. And those of the entities of the direct people who have been dealing with this, who have been working hard and hard for years to get to the point of being accepted by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as a partner and given them money, they are certainly very interested, but I can't present this in this room because it's not their level. So in this sense, I have the following proposal to agree that indeed after the debate at the Commission which we have already agreed to present the results of what 13 of us have received on the Commission here at the House and to call on the competent authorities, but now not only from the level of BiH, but from the entities and representatives of the operators and to discuss first the issue of the railway development strategy, then how long has it been since the implementation of the Law on Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We predicted there that we would put together a state infrastructure company that, therefore, the infrastructure remains state-owned, the infrastructure remains an obligation to care for it by the state, which is precisely the Ministry of Transport and Communication of BiH and to see how far we have come in this process. So I'm not holding that someone who isn't present today has avoided his obligation to answer these questions. He avoided that obligation to present his activities, so if we have to ask the same question of his responsibility by not being here today. But once again I call upon you to give consent... we begin to use and to make a contribution in this way if you want both the employment and the quality of the work of our businesses, and also the income that will be achieved through the realization of this loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5855	Thank you very much. I think we're done arguing. I am voting to give consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the construction of regional railway projects between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Halid, are you voting? You'll do it later. - Three abstentions, they're in. Did I say that right? So 3 abstentions remain for. Thank you very much. The seventh item of the agenda is Ad.7. Giving consent to the ratification of Protocol 14 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms relating to the addition of a system for the control of the implementation of the Convention Here you go. You've received a report from the committee in charge. So there's no need to. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5857	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, all who follow our work today. So I have come forward for a principled reason, I will say a few words about this Protocol 14 which essentially means the addition of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and that only the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy of the House of Peoples has discussed, and not at the same time the Constitutional and Legal Commission in whose jurisdiction are fundamental human rights. Therefore, all issues which are not regulated and put into jurisdiction under Article 24 of our Rules of Procedure, point 2 which are not in the jurisdiction of other committees, shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, including human rights. The issue of Protocol 14 thus supplementing an international legal act of the Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms is not a trade issue. This is primarily a legal political issue, it is a matter of fundamental human 14 rights and freedoms, prescribed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 2, and regulated by the Rules of Procedure as I have already said in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. It seems to me that whoever has decided to send this legal act is only to the Foreign Trade Policy Commission, which I do not dispute, because in our Rules of Procedure, in Article 25, under g), it is therefore the responsibility of this Commission to consider issues of consent for ratification of international contracts. This is the addition of an international legal act and you are parties not to think that it is not in charge of this commission, but at the very least the jurisdiction of this commission and the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been shared for the reason I have mentioned so far. So it's just me that the procedural thing in all of this is insolent. I object to the fact that this was not given and to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is why I am not going to declare myself in favour of this Protocol, so this international legal act, and for principled reasons, I am calling on two proposals - one is to consider it constitutionally-legal commission, so that there is no rush to put it on the House and the other is that, I call on the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of this House to, for principled reasons, for the sake of jurisdiction and this commission to be caught in the vote and support of this, this Protocol 14th, therefore, under this item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5858	We heard Mr. Filipović. Mr. Čengić, did you take your word for it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5859	So, by respecting all that my colleague Filipović said, except for his call not to vote, I want to say two things. The first was our commission not to decide whether she was going to consider this, but she got the assignment and we had to do it. On the other hand, our commission in principle cannot decide, nor has it any reason to object to a particular matter being discussed on another commission, or even on one and the other commission. As far as I know this is the first case, I don't know a colleague of Filipović you can probably help, and I know this would be the first case in which one here would be considered, so neither the convention nor the resolution, but it was only complemented by two committees. I personally don't think there's a need for that, and I think it should actually happen next, that the College together with the Secretary of the House decides which committee is in charge and when they decide that some of the neighbours should discuss it. Personally, I think it would be legitimate for this to be debated by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because this is a very serious legal issue, a very serious matter, therefore human rights matter, although my colleague Filipović will hopefully agree with me that this protocol defines more under quotes the technical issues of the court's work in which judges are elected, how long it takes them, when it ends, etc., than essential human rights issues or some other under quotes more legal issues. So in this sense, in principle, I don't mind, I think the solution might be about the following – that in the future College and the Secretary-General of the House are taking account of and possibly of this kind of matter rather than of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but of our or any other commission, and that this time, colleague Ilija Filipović, for his own good cause and respecting, therefore we respect his principled position, he respects the fact that we have neither done the job nor the duty already, so that we give consent to this, and in future some of the College of these, these issues and international agreements of this content refer to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is quite legitimate for me. 15 I therefore use the opportunity to call on Mr Filipović to give support along with all the respected members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to end this today so that there are no false interpretations that we are indignant to the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5860	I'll take it. I think Mr Filipović said one principled point of view. I mean, he's right, too. However, I think we must, we can understand that there are no infallibles. Can we consider this as, come on, I'll say one mistake, I have to tell both my secretary and the secretary general, and we did what we did. Well, I am. [[Common discussion]] Look, when it's a mistake, she's a mistake and she's not ashamed to admit it. So I, as chairman of the House of Peoples, along with the Secretary of the People's House, have probably made a mistake. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5862	I have to express my satisfaction that here's the thing, I wish it were on other occasions, so someone in this house made a mistake if he hadn't done something right. So it's no small thing to skip, so to skip one relevant one, so the competent authority to work on certain things that are given here is to agree on verification, ratification, decision-making, etc. It's a very important thing. We have so far had violations of mild, intentional, which are not intended, which is out of knowledge, which is out of ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, but this is, I have mentioned in principle that this is no longer happening to us. No, to look at, therefore, whose jurisdiction is a certain matter. I do not dispute jurisdiction, we have clarified this, there is jurisdiction both of them and of the other committees. It was on one, it wasn't on the other. If we go through with this and accept this as one mistake, so I generously accept your apology and I will remain consistent, so I personally will not support it, but the other members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee should do what they will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5863	Thank you very much. Please. Here I suggest, we've heard all the views, I suggest we vote on this consent to Protocol 14. Here you go. Thank you very much. So Mr. Filipović. Rose, what are you now? You're nothing. All right, ruža. I know. Thank you very much. 16 So Mr. Filipović we have 2 against, excuse me restrained and others for. I thank you for your understanding, though. Please. Thank you very much. Please, I have another change now. Filipovic, please, you can only listen a little bit when I admit I was wrong. I'm making this mistake you have to admit. We now have these agenda points up to the 12th item of the agenda that depends on, please Hasan, we have these dots up to 12 points that depend on the House of Representatives session and that decision will affect whether or not we put them on the agenda and what we're going to do with them and I now suggest we go to points 12 and 13 to finish what we can finish, so let's take a break. We took off eight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5864	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5865	What's that? Please, can I? hasane, you can't. I'm talking now, I'm not finished. I think we should move on to points 12 and 13 to finish these two points and then take a break and wait for what this home is going to do on these projects on this foreign savings bill and this other one. hasane, if there's anything you want to say right now, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5866	So, I respect everything Mr. Pamuk said. The only thing I don't understand is why we're not discussing the metrics of the 9th and 10th, but we're only discussing how we're going to talk about the law can't go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5867	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5868	Well, the tenth one on the procedure. Why can't we talk about the procedure request? We can make a statement about the procedure, and we'll discuss the law sometime when the time comes. 'Cause we're definitely gonna figure out a procedure once in a while. What's so controversial about the 10th time we get to the bottom of the procedure? It's one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5869	We have to agree. It's procedure, it's procedure. The procedure isn't our home.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5870	You didn't convince me at all. They pulled things around for a year, some worked sloppyly, some didn't do it, etc. I don't know what we've married them in this detail called - the procedure consideration. 17 I think we can agree on point 10, so we can accept this solution, or someone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5871	We could have finished these two points by now. But please be nice. We have, we have one principle, and that's how we agreed, and that principle shouldn't be broken. Everything that hasn't gone through in that house that we're not considering, and that's the principle that we adopted and we stick to it. Please. Thank you very much, thank you for understanding. Mr. Čengić, you made a mistake. Admit it. Yes, it is. The 12th item of the agenda is Ad.12. Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5873	Very briefly, therefore, this is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which discussed it 6.4. and this proposal is set out in the text that you have received to consider the House and the proposal to accept it. So just for a little while, let me remind you. The establishment of the Council of National Minorities therefore comes under the law on the protection of the rights of members of the national minorities that we have accepted in the Parliamentary Assembly, because Article 21 obliges us to form a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is essentially the advisory body of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. imenovati members of the Council will be appointed on a proposal from the Commission for Human Rights. The Committee on Human Rights exists in the House of Representatives, and this role will therefore be played by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which will therefore do so as to provide for this decision by a specific consultation with the associations of national minorities to the non-governmental sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, ultimately, the Parliamentary Assembly and the self-initiative implementation of the proposal of certain candidates in the Council of National Minorities. The point is that through this council, therefore, all relevant issues that run for certain interests, certain needs of national minorities that we have on Article 3 of this law 17 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be considered as an advisory body of the Parliamentary Assembly, and this should mark one more quality approach, so to address all the accumulated problems in the work of members of national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The funds for the work of this Council would provide a budget on this decision, and all logistics and technical and other support to this founded council will be provided by the Secretariat of the Parlametary Assembly. That's all there is to this decision. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5874	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. We heard Mr Filipović's statement and the Commission's position. Is there any more discussion, please? There isn't. I'm putting this motion into motion for adoption. Here you go. Thank you very much. Unanimity. Next item of the agenda, we call it here 13. Ad.13. Appointment of members of the Commission for the selection of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor In accordance with Article 24(4). The law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly appoints the Commission for the selection of the auditor-general and vice-general auditor-general. The Commission shall consist of 6 members of which 2 must be of the order of the opposition. The House of Nations shall appoint three members of the Commission. I'm asking the presidents of the clubs to propose candidates. Here you go. Here we go in a row. Mr. Genjac. You can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5876	I am not, but I am authorized or authorized to do so on behalf of the Bosniak People's Club. So on behalf of the Bosniak club, I suggest Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5877	I pray to the gentlemen of the Croatian club. Branko Zrno. I'd like representatives from the Serbian club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5878	The Serbian delegates' club suggests Mrs. Ruža Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5879	Have we met this condition? The opposition. Thank you very much. The rose is the opposition. Like this, Mr. Halid Genjac, Mr. Branko Zrno, Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, and I am glad that you have finally become the opposition. Please vote on the proposed candidates. - 11 for, you're restrained, what are you? One against. - 11 for, 1 against. Please, colleagues, we'll take a break. 19 In anticipation of the adoption of this law in the House of Representatives, in order for us to have a quick session, I suggest we take a break for at least 45 minutes so that people can eat something if they want to. We've reached the ninth point of the agenda, by the time we're 12 and 13 it's over. [[PAUZA]] The ninth point is Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, subject to an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure, the House decides on a request to discuss the Law after the debate. The House of Representatives passed the Law by emergency procedure. The amendments don't apply. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? First, then we vote whether or not we want the law, please, we vote on whether or not we will adopt the law under Article 100. It is a shortened procedure whether, without amendments. Vote now. So the requirement to adopt the law by an emergency procedure was adopted. So now we're opening a debate about the law. Is anyone picking up? There's no debate. I'm putting the law to the vote. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Please, it's been a break. Let's focus. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Act was adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. The tenth item of the agenda is Ad.10. The request for consideration of the Proposal for a Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are considering it by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5883	Now. Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5884	Please, the minister has a microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5885	Good afternoon. I welcome you all and, as you have already heard, the law is, in fact, along with some amendments and some amendments adopted in the House of Representatives and, in fact, in the first vote on principles is about a few things. The first is that the law in the Law is responsible for regulating the old foreign exchange savings of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as to ensure that the funds are carried out through the belonging part of the entity, through the joint account. So entities are responsible for providing funds to pay off old foreign savings, that's the first principle. The second principle, which established the number of those verifications, which brought a lot of doubt and which actually made it quite difficult to pass the law because, in the meantime, there were some things that the savings considered humiliating, which they felt were not necessary, etc. Although from all today's discussions we have actually come back to the same, which is that it is necessary to make a balance of all accounts, especially in the way it says in the law, which is cumulative in one amount, because then it is known that this is one savings, the person who has the funds in that amount and all the accounts, and then 600 thousand accounts will be taken into account, of course, the number of savings estimated at around 60,000, so that these two will be brought into contact when bonds are issued through the register in the Central Bank tomorrow, meaning in one name, in one number, the total liabilities will be issued. This logic led to the verification, the establishment of 21 registers, the issue of bonds, and the verification should be done through agencies that had been inherited from ZAP which had already done a good part of the verification work and which had then been stopped abruptly for some reasons. I think we should finish the job so he can finish up quickly, and the agencies are chosen because they've done a good part of the privatisation through them. And since the balance of foreign exchange accounts is done in a way and related to the Privatisation Act, because one part of that old foreign savings was used in privatisation during the past period of the laws that were changed to privatisation, meaning the renovation of dwellings was done in Republika Srpska, a shorter time in the Federation from these funds. So, in this unique search account, it is necessary to establish a state of affairs, i.e. to transfer to the booklet the real state of the asset holder. You know that the one from the foreign exchange accounts said I couldn't go back. So there were several transactions made over the years and therefore... insisting on verification and we believe that a state in a state institution such as the Agency is not private, but a state institution such as the Agency should quickly complete this process. In the meantime, links with banks that had data were made through the way that the contacts from which all these accounts were received were listed and recorded on CDs, because this is a new way of of communicating and re-updating data will come to the conclusion of these data and that we know how much each of them has from foreign savings on the team, on their own established account. On the other hand, unless someone is able to get something else to forget, they can refer to a court case, and that's the amendment that's been accepted in this report by the Finance and Budget Commission, the judicial path will be able to prove its right if they lose a book or with witnesses or how it's done, so we think that we've also circled this on the evidence and the possibility that each of these people who have their savings can do so. In principle, the law says it is an old foreign exchange savings that our citizens had saved in banks, which were based on BiH territory. It is said in this principle that this does not apply to savings, our citizens, who had savings in the banks' headquarters, which were not on BiH territory, and this law does not include savings, which were saved in the Ljubljanska Banka, or based in Ljubljana and based in Belgrade, and, of course, it is an additional burdensome link to the adoption of this law, because, of course, all of our citizens who have this savings should, in the same way, come to those funds, however, after the agreement on conflict issues, when it is said that this is not a matter of succession, but a bilateral relationship, we are fighting a long battle for relations with Croatia, Macedonia, who have the same problems, how to solve this problem. I hope that somehow we will find strength and opportunity to solve this problem in a similar way very quickly. Meanwhile, when we discussed that we need and secure stable resources and that's the principle of where the funds came from, there were also a lot of different approaches, but the resources provided for the payment of 100 marks to each savings this year are planned in the entity's budgets, are actually on the central bank's expense account, and as for next year, we should pay a thousand marks each savings individually, the rest should be recalculated into bonds and we said up to 13 years. So the maximum amount of annuity is twenty-six-year-olds or thirteen-year-olds, with a fixed interest on bonds of 2.5%. 22 The period between 1.1.1991 and the adoption of the law, i.e. the start of the issue of bonds, was better resolved, but it was not, was uncovered by interest and today an amendment, which was submitted to the House of Representatives, was heading towards that period of accounting since 1.1.'92. until the date of adoption and entry into force of the law, to account for interest of 0.5%. This is one amount, which is calculated and it knows what it is, it's about 100 million, and I hope it fits into the pay-off plan so it doesn't disrupt for 13 years, the law is in that direction passed. As far as the other principles are concerned, we have said that the payment of bonds will be made through an account, a single budget of the Treasury, to which funds will come from a single account of the Office for Intangible Taxation, after payment of the external debt, in accordance with the Debt Debt and Guarantee Act of Article 32 and Article 35, depending on the amount of the territorial individual RS and the Federation, and for this purpose, annuity will be paid through the banks. To end this, therefore, is the basis for issuing debt and guarantees bonds, on which BiH can issue bonds and this law says these are bonds issued by BiH on behalf of and on behalf of the entity, and what should be passed in the meantime is the law on the distribution of funds from the concession, which we have released in the procedure, and has fallen due to some procedural problems. Generally, the distribution of funds from the surplus that are standing around the payment of this savings and should be subject to changes and additions of the Law on Payments and the division of funds from the single account, because this is now a technical solution to how, since this is just coming in 2008, there is time, but a technical amendment to the law can be made immediately and, with that, would be rounded up by this legal framework, which would allow our savings, which have been saved in banks on BiH territory, this year will receive 100 marks from that savings, meaning, up to a year after 1000, and the rest in bonds, with this interest which is calculated in this non-covered approach, where it should be... bonds, because it is very much money to pay off and not foreseen. These are some, these are the principles on which the law is set as such. These are mandatory elements of the law, and without them, he wouldn't, whatever we change in it now, it wouldn't be that law, so that's some explanation, and we have a meaning of 1,979 billion KMs, so that's an important data, because it's a very important data, because it says in one article of the law, almost two billion, that's measures.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5886	We heard the finance minister. I'd like to vote now on the law in the first reading. The debates are in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5887	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister Marić, others present, I do not believe that any of us are very pleased with the fact that we have the opportunity to discuss this law. On the other hand, I think it is good that we have finally come to the opportunity to discuss this important issue at the state level, which has been burdening us for years, not only the holders of foreign savings, but also the burden on all BiH citizens in some way and making us all unhappy and dissatisfied and disappointed in the fact that this takes so long and this issue is not resolved. If it's about principles, then I'll lay out my two principles. So the first principle is that property, which refers to the foreign savings of the world, is untouchable and unquestionable property of each individual. It cannot be questioned in any way, 23 because it is earned, because it has been defined, because it was very precise and at that time very solid in those currencies that today represent solid currencies in the world. That's the first principle. I pray in all order, and I believe that today will be a debate and a counter-debate to bear in mind that this is my first principle, on which I'm building everything. The second principle is that the property that existed, which is real, is as real as the real one's field, like the real one's house that exists today, is alienated from these people and as far as I understand, alienated from Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. estranged from those who were obliged to take care of it. The principle of Mrs Marić, which implies that citizens of this country should pay for something that is illegal, alienated outside this country and not alienated from the citizens of this country, is a principle that is unacceptable. Citizens of this country have been paying too long in history for the fact that they live on this piece of the globe, too long and too hard. We've been through three wars, all of Europe has been through two, three of us. In each lost lives, lost houses, lost property, and renewed. This one has been difficult for some, some of the most difficult of all conflicts, but this one has these characteristics, therefore, which are eternally only Bosnian Herzegovic, but international characteristics. And anyone who forgets this fact, that this situation, primarily made decisions that BiH citizens have not influenced, could not influence, could not participate in this debate correctly and could not suggest a fair solution. I'm very glad Mrs. Secretary has more than enough work to do. I know she's tired, but this time, today, regardless of the fact that the lady is not going to help her at all. I want her to explain and accurately say some of the, in my opinion, previous and important things, which are kind of meant, or Mrs. Minister, that we all read the newspaper equally and follow the media and that we have the same good memory and that we have years of what's been going on. I'm not someone who had foreign savings before the war, so in that sense I'm independent. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. I am not expressing my position because I am protecting my property, because I did not have that property, but at the same time my position is independent of the government that I support as a member of the group who formed this government and I want the government to succeed. The most important thing of all is that the laws we make must be so made that they are just and not harm anyone. In this case, according to my assessment, it is quite possible, because we are not talking about unrealistic, but completely realistic categories, about measuring categories, which are not questionable savings figures, the names of the savings are known, the banks in which they have been saving are known, as well as the laws, by which foreign exchange supplies, or foreign exchanges are being expunged from BiH and their donors are known, are known in what way the funds have gone from here and are known, of course, to those who participated, in which this great manipulation has been turned today into a law that does not solve the issue, but is actually conflicting in this country. It conflicts those who have the right and us who have obligations and citizens first, who need to pay back the price of something that someone has taken away from here illegally. So, in that sense, I'd like to understand and have a few questions for Mrs. Minister to begin with. I'm curious to hear the following answers. What are the claims made by the dominial banks from BiH to the successor countries of the SFRY on the basis of the old foreign savings on 31.3.1992? How many foreign savings were left on bank accounts on the same day? Is Bosnia and 24 Herzegovina in the period from 29 June 2001, when an agreement was concluded on matters of succession until 2 June 2004, when the agreement came into force, the Bank applied for international settlements in Basel on BiH foreign exchange claims based on old foreign exchange savings, all in accordance with Article 7. Anexa c. Agreement on matters of succession? If so, how much are these claims and what are the results of the negotiations? If it isn't, why isn't it and who isn't? Did banks from BiH, after the Agreement on Sucession Issues entered into force on June 2nd 2004, initiate judicial proceedings against expensive successors for the return of foreign exchange savings, as arranged by the Annex to the Agreement on Sucession Issues. If so, where the international court conducted the procedure, if not, can we conclude that the banks are in possession of the money they are looking for are saving? Here, I'd like to start with that much, and then I'll get an answer later.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5888	Thank you. Here, we heard Mr. Čengić. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5889	Here, I'm very pleased with these questions, which, of course, require technical data. I saw this question and the answer would be in the next one. This law, if you have followed what is happening to him, hastily found himself in BiH's jurisdiction. So far, BiH has never considered the issue from the banking sector, nor the privatisation issue, nor the issues concerning important property rights, economic issues, etc. which is a question of the Constitution and jurisdiction under the Constitution. After entities have passed laws, which have been assessed by the Constitutional Court, the request for savings to be assessed by laws relating to the Human Rights Commission. The laws have been evaluated more from the point of view not in this part of the financial banking sector, but in terms of more human rights, and it is said that, therefore, the laws that have been passed, which address the issue of payment of old foreign savings, have not treated each man equally with respect to the territory on which he lives, and then the Constitutional Court, the Human Rights Commission has ordered the state and told the Commission by 28.10. you must form a commission which will consist of entity finance, Brcko and the State, to propose the text of the law, which respects those principles that I have spoken of. So, that all the people on the same day would save everything that they had saved in domestic banks and the same day get the same share of their assets, the same way they account, means they get their assets at the same time and in the same way. The state is obliged to pass a framework law and to ensure that this law provides for those people. Therefore, the principles laid down in the law provide for the position of the Commission for Human Rights, the Constitutional Court. These principles that had to be an integral part of the law. And, further, payment obligations remain on entities. So, the entities, same as when we pay the external debt, know exactly which part of the Republic of Serbia per chief, by interest, we give this report, so for the internal debt the same condition, the same principle is applied. So the questions you're talking about are entity jurisdiction issues, bank privatisation units and entity banking agents. We still haven't passed the banking law, we haven't passed a law on a state-level banking agency, we haven't passed a bank law, the Central Bank started working from scratch, with the liquidation of the National Bank in the meantime. So what I'm talking about today is, on the other hand, truly individual, especially after the entry into force of the Agreement on Stakeholder Affairs, it's very important to know that this agreement has said that the issue of old foreign exchange 25 savings related to these banks, which do not have a head office in BiH, is going to be resolved outside of the succession, so it's not a matter of succession in a way to resolve it, but it's a matter that needs to be resolved bilaterally, or multilaterally, since more countries are involved, and we are also leading the activities in this direction. As a state, however, we did not propose a law, which would also treat these savings with domestic banks and those based, which were not in BiH. So our jurisdiction in this section comes down to the following. To ensure equal human rights to all savings, in a way that we can pass a legal act, in which each savings will, at the same time, in the same way, come to their own resources, related to these categories, which are in that law. It's the principle of passing this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5890	Thank you, Mrs. Marić. hasane, would you like some more?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5891	...that money and we split these and then we stay in debt. In that sense, Madam Minister. Therefore, any further conversation is impossible with the proposing representative, or with the proponent for a very simple reason. I ask you to listen to me, no matter how tired you are. So number one. Why didn't you answer where the money was? Where's the money from the foreign savings? What are you doing here? Are you making up for it temporarily, making up for it in secret, do you know where that money is? Did the BiH state list them? Did those heirs, those legal heirs of the BiH state or BiH legal entities spend them? That's the first question. Second question. You said you were leading the activities at stake with the Republic of Croatia and Macedonia on resolving the issue of rights or otherwise calling it, not successions, but the rights to this. Now I'm interested in, say, that you do it positively, and you, as the Council of Ministers, and we as a state run it so squishy, so slow, so irresponsible, so inconclusive that it's a shame. So, what happens to the funds, if those funds are made, they eventually get it. When we take on one side now from the taxpayers and Ivo, Pere, Jovo, we give the savings to what they have a right to, and then we charge it from somewhere and then we put it in the register. Does that mean that we're actually working on the law right now, which we need to give taxpayers, and then if that money shows up, we're going to see something through with them, so we're going to write them down, spend them, and there's a lot of stuff in Bosnia that needs to be fixed, so we're going to patch it up that way. So the point of the story is, we have nothing to talk to you about. You don't know the answer to the basic question or you didn't tell us. I'm asking you precisely. Where's the money? Who's responsible for the money and what have we done to get the money? So that's the first question. The second question, which we have specifically taken over and taken over legal, political, diplomatic, business, commercial, business affairs. So, can we at least get some of these funds back? We have a situation where certain economic operators, protected by their own state, are few and politically strong. Here they invest ten or twenty million in the establishment of the bank, and then in ten years they raise billions of funds from BiH's savings and earn 26 more annually than they have invested as founding capital. It's a year's profits. At the same time, we have not taken any action to protect our citizens, to protect our market, to protect our rights. We don't talk about it, we don't talk about it. We wouldn't appear as a state now if the Constitutional Court hadn't reached a verdict. We'd be making a blur, let the entities handle it, let them suffer, let them do the job. So, in that sense, I didn't say free, please answer the principles. The principles on which this is set are ridiculous. They stand neither in heaven nor on earth. They are neither on the right nor on the economy nor on diplomacy, nor on the strategy. The only thing that stands is that it is ordered by the Court and that you have a good will to do so. But there's no strategy, no vision, and there's no clear attitude on who needs to do what. I am not exculpating the Parliamentary Assembly and this House at all. They are very responsible for everything that is happening and I am ashamed of the fact that I am a member of this House, and I have not done more because of the fact that now after three and a half years of this term, this debate is only because the Court has made a decision, not because we wanted to do so. And, now, so, let me get back to the first question. Where's the money? What have we done specifically to get that money back, and what are the estimates that we have the opportunity to get those funds? I can only talk about this law one way. That people who had foreign savings so as not to continue to be maltlet for their own money and not to wait any further, we are trying to give them something temporarily, a long-term solution is not that taxpayers, current taxpayers are paying foreign currency savings. The solution is to sue those who took the money and make up for it. That's the essence of the story. If we have such a solution in this law, explain to me where it is. If we don't, then there's something wrong with the principles. So that's number one. Number two, what do the bonds even mean? What do the bonds even mean, how will they be paid, from which means, how do we have, if we have here, you're saying we're not here, we don't have the data. We have to have a graph here to see from which funds are collected annually, how much money is given? To whom it is given and how it returns. We are now coming into a situation that instead of running a social policy, instead of running a development policy, that some VAT funds, which will eventually appear to be used on that side, we now need to patch up what these citizens and this country have, mainly, have nothing to do with, when I say these citizens, not saving but others. And the savings have their rights, which must be met. So let's get back to the principle of all principles. Where's the money and how we're going to make up for it, and how we're going to make up for those funds, which, eventually, they're going to give up in this process. So that's the beginning of the story. After that, we will discuss 0.5.0.3%, 2%, 2.5%, interest rates as large, interest rates as possible and whether someone has already spent some of those funds through the privatisation of something that is very possible and so on. So, if we don't have answers to these questions, it would be wiser to gather together, discuss, ask the Constitutional Court for additional time and find a solution, which will be of quality, to find a solution that will allow on one side of the right, and on the other hand protect BiH. You know very well, and it just happened in this term, that we already have an internal debt written off, that we are already bequeathed, that we are already befitted with internal debt in order for someone to iron out all their debt, in order to get to the last mark what he has charged through interest already twice so far. There's a long side, we owe every mark to pay back and, at the same time, we've already erased our internal debts. There's no company, there's someone who made it. So 27 there are citizens who built these companies, who were the founders of these companies, who were informal shareholders of these companies. Where are we today? Now we need to put foreign savings on the back of these citizens. We need to hire our citizens for the next 12 - 13 years to work for someone else with that money, which our foreign currency savings have earned, to buy a Buddha why, to buy a Buddha why and to turn us into its cheapest workforce in Europe. If that's the function of this country, I can't agree to that function. I ask you nicely to answer these questions, to discuss the principle of all the principles of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5892	Mr. Čengić, from what you've brought out, in the way you've brought it out, you yourself have explained that this is a very complex problem and I agree with it. However, I can only talk to you today about what the law says, and that is true that the state has decided to offer the law on the basis of the Constitutional Court's ruling and at the same time to all the savings, in the same way begins to repay the debt. So, indeed, from the tax collected most of the VAT, customs and excise duties, from a single account, by bonds, which will be issued and which state will annuity settle, so the first bonds should be active in 1.10.2008, as part 26, some other part, here to 13 years is mostly the possibility of payment, plus this interest that would be calculated, so you come to the bank and you get a part of your interest. In the meantime, it would be possible through a system installed in banks, banks, or central bank and ransom, of course, with a discount and the same savings, and that is what it says in this law. Meanwhile, there has been a situation, let's say that after writing down 80% of their commercial debt at the Paris Club, Iraq is obliged to pay 20% of its debt to all commercial contracts. In BiH, Hidrogradnja is due to pay nine million dollars. And he says, I've got a write-off as a state from the Prisco Club whether BiH is nice or not, whether Hidrogradnja drags or not, it's with nine million dollars, I'm going to send you bonds, which I'm going to pay 20 years on minimum interest. So, he doesn't ask Iraq if you're going to, so this is the current situation regarding the commercial situation, here, let's say it's totally incomparable. But here it is, so it's the country where the war was, which has handled these other commercial debts in a similar way. So 20 years is about bonds, etc. Please, it would be really good for BiH to watch how to find additional sources of funding and to return this savings as soon as possible and put it into development. These people are gonna spend that money on us. They won't carry them out, of course. These people through the children, through I don't know, I don't know, start some businesses, and we would really be in the interest of being the last state, within six countries to be heir to the former Yugoslavia, to solve these issues. The questions that are being opened, the way they are now being opened, will disable the process that needs to be started quickly. So, last in the region, we introduced VAT into the region. The VAT through the Internal Debt Act, we've secured this system. It's really just that we're going to partly pay back this debt and part of the surplus, how much of these funds we have in our account, and that's really it. These other questions, which require time and which require the engagement of those whose constitutional authority is to talk about these issues. When BiH has a law on banks, when BiH is directly competent to manage banks in a manner through law, through the agency, etc. please 28 I will be able to respond qualifiedly then in this role. So, I know a lot of that information, because I've been tracking a lot of data about privatisation and everything, but today speaking like that would be inappropriate. So, we have established the principles of the law, really, in accordance with that decision and really in a way that we try to start this process as soon as possible and start paying back that debt to those citizens, because they really stayed in the region the last. We're left with a problem of war damage. War damage is included in the payment plan. So when we take the external debt of BiH, this 1,979 billion per 2.5% plus this interest that is not included, when we take the war claims, we have calculated one dynamic that says this up to 13 years and that at that time it is possible to repay it without any disturbances in the state, if the judi-pi is 5%. So we have some parameters and these are just preliminary estimates and we don't have the exact calculation today to say whether there will be any annuity interest per year payments, etc. And the issues concerning the succession, the collection of funds from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, in particular the Annex C, are issues, which are almost over. We've charged a piece of monetary gold, we've charged a portion of American banks, we've got some part of mixed banks and this something gold that's come now and that's what we've charged from the annexe c. This other rights, private property and everything else is, over time can be put into operation. It is very necessary for the state to talk, contact and ask for its own but open issues between BiH and Slovenia and the issue of the collection of Bosnian Herzegovina savings, the assets of the Ljubljanska Banka are not settled regularly but are settled in the court of Du Strasbourg, which is very sad but so. We, as a state in that part, really do nothing directly. We can, through our representative, be agents as involved in these regulations, but indeed in that lawsuit we do not participate, but, behold, we are waiting to see what happens to judgments and what happens. In the meantime, BiH can really decide and pass a similar law, related to this savings, and take that obligation itself and go to court. However, in the meantime, we have, therefore, been given this task and now in this part we have solved this and this is the concept that it was, and in the meantime we are trying to pass a joint law on a state-level banking agency, which will then, at that time, take care of the financial sector, etc. It has everything to do with it, but, well, this is a concept written in the law, and it's like that. So, a concept that, as such, suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5893	Thank you. Mr. Jukić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5894	Here, I'm not going to talk about this too wide, but they're just focusing on one part of the problem from this topic. What has already been said or said before and afternoon in this second home, and I was part present, I know that it has been spoken long and wide, and this is a topic that really requires such a wide story, the topic is very complex, the topic is very interesting, the topic is really very important, it's about the property of people. However, I would only touch one question here and ask a question to all of us, of course, of course Minister Marić. You know who the debtors were. So, the banks are saving. 90% of BiH's banks' capital is privatised. So someone is, it doesn't matter who or who matters, but for this story it doesn't matter, they bought the capital of those banks. So, banks that owe savings to savings. I'm interested in what they were doing, now I know, jurisdiction is not BiH, but it is an entity. What did entity authorities do in the privatisation process about the bank's obligation to pay off savings? What the Council of Ministers is doing, the Government of BiH, Parliament through this law, 29 I think a solution is possible from the point of view of savings, not quite well or acceptable solution, but, however, that is what BiH can do for these people. I think that's okay. But I'm curious, it's my next question. What will BiH do? And here I think of the entity authorities, that, indeed, this question is enlightened in both the right and the right way. The question Mr. Čengić asked where the money was. I'm just putting it a little bit different. Whoever bought the capital of a bank, who owed the savings, I guess he bought that obligation to pay off his liabilities to the savings. Here, I would like to hear the answer to this question, so that I can talk further, that is, hear what is planned and how to deal with this further, because in my view, if this is solved in the way I imagine it, and I said that I imagine, therefore, that BiH has written to all people savings in books that the state that was not important is the guarantee of their savings. The logic is the same today. So the state was a guarantee and it should stand behind it and deal with it in a said way. However, I also believe that whoever bought the bank's capital had to buy bank liabilities on the issue of foreign savings to citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5895	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. brkati. Here's while there's more answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5896	It is truly ungrateful to speak of such a serious subject at half seven, very ungrateful and I think it is not the right time and, if I know that we are bound by the deadline and that we are brought in that this House is not rare, brought in, question be or not be, it must be and that it is almost not discussed, so we often have things happening to us. But this is, indeed, such a serious question, it's about big sums, it's about a lot of what I think it is, that there's a lot of things that have been hidden in this country waiting ten years for this question. He's absolutely right, Mr. Čengić, when he says where the money is and he's right and Mrs. Minister, we know where the money is, I don't have to say it for the pay phone. We need to start talking about the pay phone truth. I think it has to start saying, whether that time at half seven today I don't know, but maybe not, but you have to start saying it, because, watch out for this people in BiH, every citizen will feel that this should be paid from their backs and not guilty. If we want to be a state and take over what the state needs to do, then we need to do it. But I really think that the government in this country is the most responsible one, which the minister mentioned earlier, says, they haven't done some things, they haven't, let's say now that it has to be done. Let's say it has to be done. It can't stay forever or defined. I know what it means to reject this law and the Constitutional Court's decision today, I know what that means. But I also know what it means to place a burden on the people something that the people are not to blame at all. It's not the people's fault they're saving, it's somebody else's fault. Let's go look for the culprit, and we know where the culprit is. Why didn't we sue the International Court in The Hague? Who stopped us? I don't know who stopped us. Someone has to know, I know, but whoever didn't do it, let's call him to account. I have these big things, really, really, really, I think I could think about them right, I have a lot of arguments to have on my desk, and I don't have them today. All I have is a bill of law, and I believe that whoever made the bill was in the best interest, but it's not enough for me. I'm really sorry, I don't know how I'm gonna vote. It really isn't enough for me to get what I got and if I know the consequences of this. I think it would be good if we could continue the session tomorrow. I don't think it's right for us to finish this today. We can't get answers, and I'd like a lot more responsible people to come by tomorrow and answer questions not just Mrs. Minister, who isn't responsible for it 100%, but right now she's the only one who has to give answers, and I think that's unfair to her. It's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5897	Mr. Limov answered his word. I thank you for your understanding and for one correct relationship with the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5898	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I, of course, know how to vote. I really think that at this point, and this is the obvious tactics of this government, this parliamentary majority and its executive powers always waiting for the last day, and, indeed, we are MPs in a situation that simply, by respecting some more interests, we meet our obligation in a way that, here we all know that this is not a good solution, but here, we need to pass the Constitutional Court set a date and we no longer have the opportunity to carry out what is actually to be done. This question certainly has a lot of dimensions and I personally tend to remain in the dimension of relationships with the people who had their property and who now has no state that guarantees that property, simply has no instruments to adequately respond to those citizens. In other words, the fact that someone has robbed citizens, and the state guarantee, those who own these assets are not interested and, rightly, they are not interested, and if we want to be a state, we need to look for those instruments, which will satisfy first of all, with all the understanding that these people have for years waiting for that property to agree with these solutions too, and that in a certain way the state, which cannot be put into a situation to come before bankruptcy because of those two billion, but simply there must be a correct relationship and there must be involved those people who are interested in finding a solution and it must be built into legal solutions. The second is the dimension of what counterpart Čengić has set up where the money is. This is, of course, a very important issue and we do not have the right to remain without answering that question, and those people, who represent and perform key functions in this country, need to tell us what our strategy is, but these two issues need to be separated. We through the law must answer these citizens in a way that they too are satisfied. I personally don't think this is a good solution, and I don't want to go in at all who's responsible, why we've come into this situation, it's all one thing, we can go on tomorrow, but this law can't motivate me personally, and all this argument that the distinguished minister said, which, I must say pale and at least refer to the principles of the law, has not convinced me that I can support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5899	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5900	Look, I told you we're the last country to introduce VAT. I never understood why. That we are the last country in the region, in the country, that was created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, which solves this issue. In 1993, Slovenia began to resolve this 31 question and, I said it was a 4% interest, which they also gave, in wars, also in bonds to their people. I was corrected by people and said it was 5%. Slovenia that did not war, Slovenia with huge national income per capita, has paid back its debt for ten years to its citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Croatia began to pay back, or less, in 1995, Croatia began to repay the debt and, also, returned it until last year until 2005, again to bonds A, B series to the right, claimed from the beginning a small part of the value, a few years ago 3 – 4 years around 2000 it was already about 70% of the value. The BiH country, which in the meantime has a parallel lot of problems, on the one hand, is trying to end the return. We're still investing in huge funds, we're looking for loans to try to train areas populated, populated and displaced, that can't stay there and try to make a sustainable return. On the other hand, the country is in transition. So these are all some inherited problems, which are such, as is the condition. On the other hand, parallel to economic growth, with the introduction of VAT, we have a number of people, who slowly fall from the line of the population, which we need to help socially, and that's all right with what you're saying and we need to help both one and the next people who are socially threatened by these reforms, families with more children. But also, we must begin to resolve these issues quickly. These are unresolved issues and questions that burden the community, the answer that someone will get, in who he is and what he did with foreign currency savings in the war, so war begins in 92 years is where that money is. So in that time, please, what happened before the war itself and in the war. The question that's been open for so many years, so for 15 years, we haven't even started to solve these issues and entities, which two years ago have been able to make some laws, in the way they've done them, which have been assessed totally unacceptable, because they've offered up to 50 years ago the possibility of paying off that savings, or war damage, and, after assessing that it can't be done to people, we're getting into a situation, so again, here all the other countries are returning savings, we have to start returning this savings. So, this charm should also, for the sake of human rights, end this story in a way that we start doing this, and that time would really be now, and in the meantime you know yourself in the Constitutional Court, also, the procedure, related to war damage and will quickly be decided. So, those obligations that the state has, the law on privatization of banks. So, these obligations that the state has, the Law on the privatisation of banks, the initial balance, when banks are privatised in the privatisation units of the Ministry of Finance, each initial balance clearly states what it was given, as it was sold. So there's a law that entities passed 97. - In 98, it says what happened in them. But the Federation Parliament voted for it, of course the Republika Srpska Assembly voted because the governments had jurisdiction, the banks privatised. So, there's no disputed way of privatizing our banks so far, and now in this time when we're in that place, when we're destined, that is, here's the decision to do this, I think we should really move into this process, and see there really are some additional sources that we would soon complete this process and disburse these funds and allow such disbursed funds to actually invest in some, here, other investments, as of course these big projects that the country plans. But in the present time, in the present situation, we should think that way. Of course people won't be happy. Of course, people who haven't gotten their houses back yet are not happy because their houses haven't been fixed. The state is also in charge of us now at the Bank, and we are negotiating a loan to the Council of Europe to enable the obsessing of the people who have returned, who have been avoided and displaced, but the state is in transition. It solves a lot of problems parallelly, and that's why it would be good for these people, give them access to these money, this way, and see how we calculate and what we're going to do next, if we're going to solve these social problems more, if it's going to be necessary, if we're going to do it in some other way, but here's the solution, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5901	Thank you very much. Here, let Halid go and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5902	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I'm going to have a little discussion to try to objectively place it in perhaps a calmer tone, in a way that a little, however, lays objective facts. I would not say that the government's intention was to bring in some kind of tea-note and put in a situation of extortion, because in addition to this law you received information that the Constitutional Court made a decision on 6 April 2005. You know how long the law-making procedure takes, and that the working group that worked on the bill, on similar laws, takes 5-6 months. These are, in part, representatives of the international community and that finally the law came into parliamentary procedure on 30.12.2005. That's all the facts. I wouldn't say that there's some intention here, some goal to force some solutions in the atmosphere, but there's room, though, to talk about the principles of the law and ask questions about whether this is the most necessary solution. One of the reasons that was under the law was the dissatisfaction of savings repeatedly through lawsuits, through the appeals of the Commission for Human Rights, the Constitutional Court. This dissatisfaction of the citizens is present all the time and as one of the essential elements that forced this issue to be resolved. The impression is that she saves and saves herself with this is not satisfied. So that goal that was to be achieved is not satisfied. Eh, now we should ask the following questions. What is the alternative to not adopting this law, which is what the situation arises by not adopting this law. What are the consequences of not passing the law? Next question. What other principles are possible to pass this law? Look out, Slovenia that did not have a war, Croatia that had a little less war than in BiH, was in a position to settle their internal debts towards foreign currency savings. The same is the question with them where are the money from these domestic banks in Slovenia where the foreign exchanges were saved? Where's the money? Who spent it in Slovenia? Who spent it in Croatia? Where is the money, but Slovenia, which had a few days of war, had the necessity and the need to adopt the law and solve the issue for ten years. So it's one of the elements, which, it seems to me, warns me that it's a very delicate and complex problem. So, what are the consequences of not passing the law? Realistically, what consequences? The second question, what are the other possible principles of lawmaking? Is it possible to hope at all, or is it possible to put all our efforts into saving money, which were deposited at the National Bank of the former Yugoslavia, and we know everything that's been going on, is it possible to get those foreign exchanges? Is that real at all? Do we have a chance at what? So if it's possible to do the law on other principles and say, well, we're going to get that money and then we're going to make the law that way. So, please understand and try to discuss the principles of the law to be very sober. Is there any possibility of the law being laid down on other principles and, secondly, what 33 will happen, I would ask the Minister to answer us what will happen if this law, which is required by the Constitutional Court, is not adopted, so that we are aware of the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5903	Mr. Jukić. May I have your attention, please? This is a very difficult problem and I'd like to ask you for some concentration.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5904	Here, for information to everyone and, if we believe we know that. So, for the past year, the banking sector in BiH stands. Last year, the banking sector in BiH ended up with a profit after tax, so a net profit of 97m marks. Watch out, this information says a lot. So, whoever those banks are in debt to the savings, which he bought with them now, are the only owners, but in his possession he earns in BiH's space a hundred million net profits a year. So I think this is a very, very important question, and this is a matter that needs to be discussed, so the way banks are privatised. Now a little bit here, though, and I'm going to commend the Minister, or Council of Ministers, because they really seem to me to have done what is possible right now through a law like this. Of course, saving can't be satisfied with the fact that they only count for 0.5% of interest for the whole period. It is, of course, below interest which is real several times, interest which I don't even know about either, I don't know about 1%, it's 4%, maybe 5% it's a fact, we all know it and it's the price that this law pays again at the expense of the owner of foreign savings, it's a fact and we all need to say it clearly again. If we're looking at this law, from the point of view of his justice, then that's what I said and my opinion. However, the question is also, if the BiH state with its current socio-economic situation, the economy as it is, the social opportunities as they are, etc., can you do more. I really want to be responsible here in my thoughts of the spoken word, I believe that the Council of Ministers has assessed realistically and objectively its possibilities and our possibilities and offered a solution that is realistically possible at this point. I repeat, this solution is not fully satisfied with the interests and demands of the owner of the foreign savings. But this is what BiH could do right now. And, I would, I wouldn't spread the story at all. I said I'd only focus on this question. I would suggest that indeed the Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH deal with the issue of bank privatisation and the relationship of new owners to the liabilities towards savings. So, in that part. And if something can be done, then from that part, and if it's very difficult, make up for this difference in savings rights, which, in my view, is objectively real. I see it that way and I don't think there's an economist who would disagree with this kind of thinking, but everyone should also be responsible for proposing a solution and accepting a solution that is realistic, possible and feasible. Here, I'd like to end my conversation on this subject and my debate. We can talk about the amendments later, but I think it's a lot said about them too, so maybe this first part of the debate will be enough to discuss the issue when the amendments are in part two.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5905	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić, come in. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5906	First of all, I want to tell my colleagues that I'm not going to talk to you anymore, except possibly a replica, because I have some suggestions here. Secondly, I would like to explain to the Minister that my position is not personal to her, but as a proposing representative, I hope she understands that. Thirdly, as for Mr Lim, who says this seems to be the tactics of this government, I would not generally, but I will remind him that his party was also in power and had the opportunity for two years, managing both the Federation and BiH, to resolve this issue both for him and for him, the respected party president of the current and then he was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and he also had a strong influence on their Prime Minister of the Federation. So, in that sense, no one here has done the job, so here we are the same. Since there is a Prime Minister of the Federation from my party right now, the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, etc. There's no pain in that part for anyone. I don't know. Sometimes it's a party, sometimes it's a party, depends. Allow me now before my proposal to conclude a few more things. First of all, we all know there's a so-called. the ability to buy debt or sell debt, or sell claims. It's a very interesting and lucrative job in the world. The banks, who had an obligation to do this, had their own claims and had claims about this, and I assume that this is something that's fat and good, for someone, not for BiH citizens, but good for someone's shop. Secondly, I would like to say and remind you that it is a prerequisite for the privatisation of the PBS system, the Business Bank of Sarajevo, whether to discuss the issue of international debts and how to repay international debts, before any negotiations on any privatisation or total or individual. Why? Because foreign investors were strong enough to protect their interests, and only after the Paris, London Club and some other clubs had made clear views and after we had defined the position of our foreign debts and determined how we would repay them and signed them under it, then the decision was made to go into privatisation, and then whoever accidentally appeared again this one, who had previously forced him to collect the debts to pay for it and the remains to iron out this other. The question arises as to why he did not then ask, as the issue of international debt was raised, why the issue of foreign savings was not asked in the same way, so that the BiH state is both legally and in fact responsible for the situation. It's not done and that's the point, which is the second problem point of this story. The first is where the money is, and the second is why this is like this. Is this the second one done just so we don't know where the money is? And now, since you're all tired and since this looks so indecisive, let me suggest the next conclusion. Before I read it, I'll say one thing. As sacred and unquestionable a question of the right of foreign savings, the last point of their currency, which they put into foreign exchange savings on banks at the time, is the same unquestionably the right of taxpayers in BiH not to pay even a mark of what they did not participate in, to make a loss or damage. And for that reason, this is my proposal. Number one. I suggest we pay our full respects to the BiH Constitutional Court for their decision on foreign exchange savings and their protection of human rights of foreign currency savings. 35. Number 2. I propose that the law not this one, but another one be treated as a way to temporarily resolve this issue, to temporarily resolve this issue, while the BiH state or the BiH state, and, precisely, with the activity of the BiH state, does not get the dispute and receive the funds of the one we are looking for, and return to the one who has secured the temporary funds. So, these funds that are now to be paid to the savings, I consider to be temporary. Now if we pay them off, we have to find our way back. But in order to find the way back, the BiH state must engage. Thirdly, the funds needed, the funds to be paid to the savings, should be secured from the sale, i.e. from state property, either from the grant funds, from a reserve of gold or from the sale of funds owned by the JNA, which will not be needed by the BiH military. It's a huge asset. Those assets have a name and a last name and have a value. They can be sold, they can be used to pay off on some principle that we agree on, and one day when a dispute is won, they'll know exactly who these funds can be returned to. In this way, it will not be affected by the pockets of taxpayers, there will be no problem if today we take from taxpayers how we will return it tomorrow, except as social giving, which would be parody, but in fact, this way would be in a position to return these temporary solutions, which define this law, to the source from which we will take the funds now and pay what we need to pay off at some time, and then, when one day we get the dispute, return those funds to where we took them. In this sense, I propose that we ask the BiH Constitutional Court to give 60 days of additional time, to make legal decisions, which would allow the implementation of these principles, on the one hand, which would ensure security and guarantee the return of foreign currency savings, while on the other hand, the taxpayers would be protected from falling out of their pockets, while the state would now, in full capacity, take over obligations, together with entities, working on the first adoption of the law, working to secure the funds paid by this, to obtain funds alienated from foreign savings, brought out of BiH, to return to BiH and return to the availability of BiH institutions. Any other solution is to the detriment of the citizens of this country, and I cannot believe that any of us will agree to this burdened BiH citizens continue to burden themselves with something that they are not at all guilty of. I believe that such a solution is reasonable, that it is absolutely realistic, economically justified, legally justified and I am convinced that the Constitutional Court would accept that an additional deadline is given to find such a solution, which would essentially be the realisation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the protection of human rights, and this time both sides and foreign savings and citizens of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5907	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. I understand that a little bit so that it would be good if it went into another phase, to end this the way we end up, because we think this law has made us an optimal solution. If you think so, we'll vote for it. Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5908	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few words, denied by this proposal of Mr. Čengić's conclusion. So, I'm obliged here to say one of your opinions, and you decide. This is a very complex battery. Here is the information that very seriously and very sharply 36 has been discussed at the House of Representatives. We didn't expect it to go away without a debate here either. He discussed the House of Representatives. It's past that law, and now we're gonna accept it without any marks, but I'd like to warn you of one thing. What Mr. Čengić has suggested is an advocate to violate the BiH Constitution in this home. In the Constitution of BiH, we all know that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding for everyone in this country everywhere. We can't get past that fact. If he could have gone over this fact, which I'm just reminding you now, he'd have crossed the House of Representatives. If he could have known of the deadline, he would have avoided the adoption of this law. This law would not today, perhaps we too, argue that it does not oblige us to enforce the Commission for Human Rights at the Constitutional Court. What you have already said, therefore, to the citizens of BiH, who had their funds in the banks in BiH, is guaranteed by the former state, there is no state of BiH, which is the legal follower of all the guarantees made by the former state and, for this reason, I am undermining and signing every spoken word of indecisiveness, irrevocableness, indifference of any mark, or I do not know in which currency any citizen of this country has saved, therefore, that it must and return it. He has no one else, anyone who has any and any number of foreign exchange books to ask what it is about my failed foreign exchange, with my failed foreign exchange savings, but the state where that bank was in, where his foreign currency savings collapsed. I read this law carefully. He seems perfectly rational, perfectly reasonable to me, and at this point I think we are brought into one tea note and quite fair to all these people, waiting for them to get back what went down on them in legal entities, guaranteed by no one but the state when they opened those books and put forth their efforts and their torment, someone in this way, someone in that way. So, from that point of view, we as a parliament, as a single tissue, a part of that Parliament, as a serious and responsible home, cannot go over these facts. Please, suggest and ask for a new deadline from the Constitutional Court, something rational and reasonable thinking in distress when we do not know how we will solve the matter, but, please, in 6.4.2005, a decision of the Constitutional Court was made. That's a little more, so seven days over a year. Did I make a mistake? I didn't make a mistake. It was then ordered to pass a law that would regulate it by 28.10.2005, and then it was extended and it was said to do so by 20.11.2005 that it was true. It's in the accompanying act, which we got from the promoter, and now we've got nowhere else to go. We've reached a limit when we have to make a decision. The Constitutional Court's decision is something that needs to be done. I think a very important question has been touched here, but I think at a bad time. To mention now, therefore, banks as legal entities, which remain in debt, do not seek, but owe, therefore, a very large difference, they owe BiH citizens. They are privatized and it is regulated by another regulation, the Privatisation Act. If it wasn't there, I don't know what it was, but I don't think it was, among other things, to buy both rights and obligations and to list debts to foreign savings. If they did, then there'd be some way. So, the state guarantees, it has to go back to those people who had foreign savings in those banks, and then let the state show up and put it into their budget when they pay people who had savings in those banks in a dispute against legal entities, who are obliged to do so, if the court finds that they are obliged to pay it back. Besides, there's something the proposer warned us about here. The provisions of this law, which we do today, seem to have no way out of accepting it, is the only Racio that guides me, therefore, in relation to everything I have said today and now what I am about to say, the text of this law is in line with the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. That's what he says here. Why, because it gives rise to an obligation to exercise a fundamental human right. Therefore, the right to return something that the state, i.e. the bank or banks owe to the savings. 37 I answered the word only for a reason to warn of something that should not be done to me. We must not violate the Constitution of BiH in this house and must not disrespect the Constitutional Court decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5909	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5910	I really hate to report for the replica, but I have the impression that my esteemed colleague Filipović overheard my last position, or that I did not call not to pass the law. I didn't call on us not to accept the Constitutional Court's decision, vice versa. In the first act, I said that I would accept the Constitutional Court's decision, but in the fourth point of the conclusion, I suggested that we not make a decision, but to ask the Constitutional Court to extend the deadline, and to honor fellow Filipović, the deadlines you mentioned, from the time when this Constitutional Court decision was made, to further request that the law be passed, and not to pass the law, all this is so, but nothing touches me until today, because I didn't officially have the opportunity, the possibility or obligation to discuss this issue, except for the commission and today here at Dom. If you'll allow me to remind you, this is the first time this house has discussed this issue. Why we came to this situation to discuss the last day, that's the question of Mr Lim. So that's the question. But that doesn't make me the least of all a man who breaks the Constitution and calls for a violation of the Constitution. I'm certainly one of those guys who would never do that. Conversely, I call for the respect of the Constitution, because it is not respect for the Constitution to implement the term, to spend the date, and now to put on the rye of the citizens of BiH, to expensive with the harrass of an additional two billion marks, the harrassor to collect two thousand marks, because someone has not done his job. And instead of talking about the essence of the question, I still remind you, that we are talking about the principles of the law, not the amendments. So my principled approach is not to respect the date. I respect him, and for the first time in my life, I've been able to talk about this and respect the date. However, I call for the next argument, which is that we have to resolve the issue essentially. Basically, this law doesn't solve this issue. This law extinguishes the fire of one fire across the back of citizens, of all citizens. Do I have the right to do that? No, I don't. Whether the Constitutional Court has the intensities of its decision to do so, I claim not. So instead of just sticking to the shape, we stick to the essence. Basically, I suggest we call the Constitutional Court. Not give the Council of Ministers a deadline. I didn't say that either. The Council of Ministers has spent their time. This time, to give the Parliamentary Assembly a deadline to find a solution, which will satisfy these two principles, for foreign exchange savings to start being damaged and to find a way to do so, and in another way not to take it from citizens again, but from the funds that exist, which are legally, clearly and clearly defined and from which we can resolve this issue. Once again, I'm asking you to make a deal. I'm clearly saying that I didn't call for a violation of the Constitution and I don't think it was necessary to make such arguments here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5911	Thank you. Is there anyone else? There isn't. 38 So now we're voting on this law in the first reading. So we vote on principles. I beg the law in principle, it's first reading. Vote now. Who's against it? - 2 Who is abstention? – 2 So the law in the first reading passed. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. If that's okay with us. Please vote. Who's in? I didn't see it. Who's against it? – 2 Who is abstention – 3 Good, alignment. Please, can we get someone to replace your president? We have two minutes. Can we take five minutes off? Let's continue, gentlemen, after the alignment. [[PAUZA]] After agreeing, the College decided to go to another reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments to the bill. Here you go. Is anyone picking up? Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5912	I'm picking up, about this, that you brought it in so it wouldn't go any further, that it wouldn't go any further. I expected it not to go any further, so I didn't insist, but now I think I'm right, since there are no amendments, I have the right to ask the House to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion that I have proposed. I wouldn't repeat the arguments, I've already made it all. I think it would be good for the House to make a statement about this proposal of conclusions, on the other hand, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't act the way I suggested and allow us to come to a better-quality solution, with which we would both be satisfied and not go from violating one human rights in other human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5913	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. It's your right. Please don't make a mistake, replica. I would ask Mr. Čengić to be absolutely and democratic, I have not fully remembered your conclusions, but I beg you, read one by one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5914	...when you don't know how to let me make our conclusions known before we close the discussion of principles, how I know how you're going to do it. 39 So, the first attitude is. We express our respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH and thank the decision protected human rights of foreign foreign savings. Second act. The solution to be offered in the law, therefore, not in this law, but the solution to be offered in the law on foreign savings rights should be considered temporary, in terms of providing funds, until a dispute is obtained through expensive institutions and the funds that have been estranged outside BiH are secured, thus returning to where temporary funds are borrowed or taken. The third position, the funds needed to pay off foreign savings, needs to be secured from state property: grant funds, ESCRO accounts, assets of JNA and other funds available and available to the state, and not from VAT funds, or directly from citizens and taxpayers in BiH. When those assets are secured, therefore, those estranged assets, they will then return to those sources from which they were taken temporarily. Like these means of succession and everything. And lastly, we ask the Constitutional Court to make a decision, extending the deadline by 60 days, to set up the law and pass the law on these principles and address the fact that foreign savings are rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5915	We heard all of Mr. Čengić's suggestions. Mr. Terzić, who is present here and I greet him in front of the House of People, wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5916	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Peoples delegates, I understand that Mr. Čengić has a good intention of solving this matter in some other, perhaps more quality ways, now the question is whether these are better quality ways or not, I would like to go through his thoughts and consider it a better way. I don't think stopping a project like this is good at this point. This is a real project. Something we can finance. Constitutional Court, i.e. The Human Rights Commission has made a clear and precise statement that what they wanted to obtain from the law was obtained in this text of the law, which means that it is not a matter of any violation of human rights and, I think, it would be good that, as the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples today have adopted such a law in the same text, which absolutely does not mind that in these 60 days that Mr Čengić is talking about, once again, one working group to analyse the resources mentioned by Mr Čengić and to go with a law which will then derogate such a legal regulation. I agree, if there is an asset, if there is something on the ESCRO account that can be put into operation to satisfy old foreign exchange savings, if there are means of succession, etc., that it would certainly be better quality than the funds of indirect taxes. However, since it is questionable today and since we do not know, and, behold, Minister Marić is there, which, perhaps most effectively, could be talking about whether we have those resources and how much they are. I suggest you pass a regulation like this, because it is in accordance with the Constitutional Court and the Human Rights Commission, and that we do not mind trying to come up with any other legislation, which will then derogate this one. In the end, entities have already provided funding for such a legal project in their 2006 budgets. So, for 2006 we already have the funds provided. The medium-term budget projections, made by entities, by the Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Finance and by the fiscal council also envision priorities for 2007, which are sufficient to pay under the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5917	Thank you, Mr. Terzić. Do we have any more debaters? So we're done. I will put to the vote the conclusions, or conclusion of Mr. Čengić, whom you heard a few minutes ago. Who's in charge of these conclusions? - 4 Who's against it? - 4 Who is abstention? - 3 So Mr. Čengić's proposal for a conclusion didn't go through. Since there were no amendments, I don't know if there's any need to continue the discussion. Niko one's answering. We're asking you to vote on the law. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 2 Who is abstention? - 4 We don't have an entity majority we're going to get a match. Five minutes' break again. ...we're going to this second procedure because we didn't have the consent. [[PAUZA]] We're now in a position to vote on entities. First we vote the MPs from the RS. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac, you answered your word? First, let's announce that this law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5918	...and the law itself, if it's interpreted as a 13-year-old, which can't be 13, can be shorter than 13 years, depending on the ability of the state and the possibility, in that sense, I suggest the following. The people's home obliges the Council of Ministers to form a commission together with entity governments, which will review additional possible sources within three months from which debt will be served according to the old foreign currency savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5919	Thank you, we heard Mr. Genjac's suggestion. Here's a supplement from my colleague Jukić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5920	Here's what I'd like to add to that in a way that we say faster by dynamics, by additional sources, and that's faster to determine, is to make it faster to meet all obligations. So, not to be human, I don't even know this year 100 marks, the next thousand, but to be, if there's any additional sources as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5921	So Mr. Genjac's conclusion extended with this dynamic proposed by Mr. Jukić. Can we vote? Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5922	Mr. Chairman, so there may be one conclusion, we may have more conclusions if necessary. If we are already working on this conclusion, and he is obviously on the trail of this basic idea to try to avoid further burden on taxpayers, then I would instead, these words of "additional sources" I would not put "additional sources" but I would say – "other sources" of not VAT, but "other sources". That's all. So not from VAT, but from other sources. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5923	I have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5924	Because if we say additional sources, that means VAT is the main source again, and something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5925	I have to say here now, it means we forbid the Council of Ministers to re-fund from VAT.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5926	We've passed the law. We've been proposed by law. He's got the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5927	But here's the conclusion of a new one that says no to VAT.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5928	So let this law take effect normally as it enters into force. 42 From its entry into force it shall apply. We propose to now launch an initiative for changes and additions that will find solutions. But Mr. Pamuk is right. My proposal is to essentially VAT when these new solutions are found and to become the law that VAT is not a source of any payment, but to be other sources. Well, of course not at this stage. Now the law has become the law and he's going as it is now, but in those changes, he's just defining that VAT is no longer a source but to find other sources and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5929	Since it's a very serious law, it's a very serious suggestion, it's an opportunity to make a serious mistake here, I would ask that we sublime that conclusion now. Here, let's ask Mr. Genjac whose proposal, the skeleton of this whole thing, is to definitely and well formulate the conclusion because it's good, so we know what we voted on, right? To form a conclusion and vote on that conclusion. He is acceptable, he is normal to me, he is possible, I think the Council of Ministers would have nothing against that law, against that conclusion, but what is important must be absolutely clear, so that there is no dilemma to make a conclusion that cannot be realised, or where there are doubts about how it will be realized. Let's put it to bed, okay? Please, while Hasan sums up the conclusion I want to congratulate before the end of this assembly that all of my colleagues, our fellow MPs, is it congratulations on the Easter holidays that are coming this 16th month and I also want to congratulate you on the name of the House of the Peoples of the Jevrej of Pesah, the Orthodox believers of Easter who arrive on April 23rd, and I want you to spend those holidays home with your families and wish you a lot of health, to you as well as to your peoples. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5930	So if you just let it go for a little while. The Council of Ministers is asked to prepare, within 90 days, amendments to this law in which, instead of VAT revenues, other sources of funding of obligations arising from the Law of the Points will be found and that the Law provides for a shorter deadline for the implementation of these obligations to foreign savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-0.u5931	Thank you very much. We heard the suggestion. I'm putting him to a vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I thank you. It's been a pain in the ass, but here's a success. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 7:35 p.m.
