ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5811	Dear gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, esteemed representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 56th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This session is attended by 14 delegates, five from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people, four from the Serb people. Mr. Goran Milojević is justifiably absent. For the 56th session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 55th National Assembly, 3. Conclusion on the placing of amendments to the BiH Constitution on public debate, 4. Hilme Neimarlija delegates' request to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Excises in BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Development Loan Treaty, the Solid Waste Management Project between BiH and the International Association for Development. That would be a proposal for today's agenda. Any objections to the agenda? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5812	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, the draft Act amending the Excise Act was included, which I submitted. However, since there was no response from the Council of Ministers, or I failed to establish communication with him, since I know that they have long since prepared a similar proposal, which includes this amendment, which I am proposing, but also some other amendments, and this proposal has not been on these committees either, here I have accepted, on the basis of the suggestions of my fellow Members, that this proposal is being postponed for the next session and that this commission phase is going to pass and that I see whether the Council of Ministers is going to submit a proposal for the law, to say, through a wider cycle of amendments. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5813	Thank you very much. So, we move Hilma Neimarlija's proposal to remove this fourth item from the agenda and put it on the agenda at one of the next sessions, i.e. 57. Thank you very much. So, the fourth item of the agenda is gone. We have the first item on the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to delegate questions was received by Mr Tomislav Limov. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5814	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, guests, representatives of international institutions and public information funds, I welcome you all together and I would like to say that I have received an answer to my three questions concerning the construction of a bridge which the Dalmatian coast will connect with the island of Pelješac. The answer is that I, of course, can be satisfied at this stage and I want to use this opportunity to say that I hope that the relevant institutions of this country will find the right way to resolve this issue to mutual satisfaction, and from the BiH institutions that participate in this, I expect that they will primarily take care of the interests of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5815	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Any delegate questions now? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5816	I will, of course, take this opportunity to ask three questions, of course to the Council of Ministers and, hopefully, the Council of Ministers will provide the relevant institutions at the appropriate levels of the state organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question is: 1. Under what circumstances and with which specific assistance did he escape from the Clinical Hospital in Mostar, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, Antun Katušić, who blamed the traffic accident in Tasovčić near Capljina, where five young people died? 2. What have the relevant authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina done against the responsible persons, who have made that escape possible? 3. How long will corrupt, unconscious, incompetent police officers, judges and medical professionals unpunished to allow BiH to escape from various criminals, war criminals and murderers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5817	Thank you very much. Any further questions? There isn't. We're moving to agenda two. 3 Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes with the 55th session of the House of Peoples you have the record. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm putting the record to a vote. Please vote on the minutes now. Thank you very much. The record was unanimously adopted. Ad.3. A conclusion on the amendment to the BiH Constitution, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency delivered the amendment's mandate to the BiH Constitution during a public debate. With the call for a session, you've reached conclusions. In accordance with Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, amendments to the BiH Constitution are being put to public debate. An appropriate commission is being set, which will conduct a public hearing, as well as a deadline in which it is due to be held. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. Please, let's vote on this now. So this conclusion was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. The fourth point, which we suggested, so we took it off the agenda. That's what Hilmo Neimarlija was saying. Ad.5. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit Project for solid waste management between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development Does anyone come forward? Here, Mr. Čengić on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5818	Mr Chairman, honourable members of the presidency, distinguished colleagues, others present, on the basis of a proposal and a request from the House College, which was sent to the Commission and myself two days ago personally, we held a session of the Commission this morning and discussed this issue, as we were informed that there are deadlines that are very short to ratify the additions of this Treaty. We were considering supplementing the contract this morning, and the Commission agreed, suggested that the House ratify these supplements, but I would like to say that the Commission has also reached the next conclusion. In view of the fact that no proposing representative was present at the Commission's meeting, the Commission has decided, most of the votes, that it suggests to the House that, unless the proposing representative is present at the House's meeting, this should not be considered. The reason we're considering it is because the College asked for it, keeping in mind the short deadlines. As we have been informed in the meantime that it is foreseen that the 13th of this month will be held again at the House, then, obviously it would be time, if this is not discussed and not agreed today, to give 13th and, if the Commission considers the issue to be indisputable and important, and the Commission has agreed on the very addition of the contract. However, when it comes to the relationship of the proposing representatives, we treat it here as the Council of Ministers, it is indeed inadmissible. We, as the Commission, wrote letters to the College on several occasions, reached conclusions, you asked this question here at the House, we made joint conclusions on the House, but obviously, when it comes to contracts, agreements and international conventions, etc. Unlike the law, if we are talking about our commission on foreign and trade policy, then very often we have a situation that we do not have a proposing representative. So for principled reasons, we believe that this relationship is incorrect and inadmissible. We, therefore, adopted by the majority of votes today a proposal that, if the proposing representative is not present at the House's session, when this issue is considered, this point should be removed from the agenda and if we have suggested that it be ratified. Of course, this is a very serious question, and the previous question would be like this, and I didn't want to present it as a colleague of Limov's for a delegate issue, because it's actually more serious, why we keep coming into the situation, very often we come to a situation where we're considering at the last minute, that we're asking the commission to hold an emergency session, to consider a question, because the deadline has expired or is near the end. Today we had this contract, and we had, of course, the 13th Act on Old Foreign Savings, which is... because it is really a question, is it really possible that no one from the Council of Ministers in the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency, therefore, in institutions that are responsible for caring for deadlines, knows about these deadlines until the last day. In other words, how to ensure that someone is indeed responsible for ineffectiveness and does not take care that deadlines are present. In this case, about this point of the agenda, as far as you've seen, according to the debate at the session, there is no content dispute and there is no content dispute at all, but the question is why someone should have come into the chat and because we already asked for an extension of the deadline from the association that provides this loan, so we spent that deadline and we didn't ratify the contract, now, here, we're spending the second term and we haven't ratified again. Who, and in what way, should finally be responsible for why it comes into a state of constant delay? I think it would obviously be necessary for the College to reconsider this and to ask the Council of Ministers, if one particular item of the agenda should be made and to discuss it beyond the commission and also at the House. We have never conditioned that any document or material should present or explain a specific function, a man with a specific function, primarily a minister or his deputy. We were very flexible. We've had cases of ministerial assistants doing it, ministerial assistants doing it, doing it by experts in some ministry, and it's natural. People are very often involved in the procedure, they have information, so we didn't insist on it, but if you get into a situation where there's no one here, this to banalize on, to the porter from the competent institution that at least formally appears and nods his head and says I represent the Council of Ministers, then it's really something that can't be acceptable anymore. And that, in fact, shows one incoherence or an incorrect relationship to the Parliamentary Assembly and to the competent institutions, that's just the way it is. It is repeated and we have a situation that we are having discussions on these issues on the committee and we do not have a solution. We suggest that you as a College might reconsider and find a way, indeed, a solution is very simple. Take it off the agenda and dot. But what happens if we lose this loan now, and the request for that loan has been delivered by the Bosnian Herzegovina party. So, at all why we have this debate, without our request to give extra funds and the association has come to the meeting, given additional funds, gave us a deadline to ratify it. We've spent the deadline, we haven't ratified, and now we've almost spent the second time and we haven't ratified again. That seems very unserious. I especially want in a situation where there's nothing controversial, so there's nothing controversial or technical or political, so that's one picture of who we are and how we function. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5819	Thank you very much. I have the right to tell you, twice the House has decided that it will not discuss the projects for which we do not have a reporter in this home and which cannot explain. Here, we have a situation that we don't have people from the Council of Ministers, and it's unfortunate that these men from the Council of Ministers didn't have the decency to come to the committee that discussed it, to help the debate come up with a real proposal. Here's one better, I'll say ugly situation. I am principled to get this off the agenda, but now the question is whether or not we're going to produce damage, because we've made this request, we've broken deadlines, and we have a rather ugly situation, and we're really going to get into a situation that because our fellow ministers' council members won't do their job well and properly that we, what the people say, put a thorn in our own leg and make it bad for us. That's one question I'd like to think about right now. The easiest thing to say is we're taking it off the agenda, but I think, here, however, I suggest that from this, since we're going to have a 13th session, I'm inclined to suggest to the Assembly that we move this thing to 13th and ask people to refer it to us in the way that Commission President Čengić said and finally that the Council of Ministers is referring to this home something more correct, something more quality. I think we agree to take it off the agenda and put it on the 13th of this month's agenda. Mr. Genjac, did you want anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5820	I agree with all these remarks, regarding presence. However, I have indeed another proposal and there are no issues in this agreement. The agreement was discussed by the commission. The agreement is about deadlines. Come on, please let us give consent to ratification, because let's not do it ourselves, because someone is irresponsible to be irresponsible, too. So, I would suggest that we give consent, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5821	Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5822	Oh, I have a need without a lot of time and patience to say your words very briefly. If you're willing to step on your principle, which we agreed on, that we won't discuss, then I suggest we waste the Bianca form, I don't even need to be, just give it back to them and everything's fine. I appreciate that my colleague Čengić's proposal and 6-7 days of postponement should finally be made aware of this irresponsible Council of Ministers to fulfil their obligations to both the working bodies and this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-06-0.u5823	Thank you very much. Me, however, regardless of Genjac and I, we have a similar opinion. However, I suggest we take this off the agenda and put it on the 13th on the agenda. I'll ask for your consent here. Who's that? 6 Please vote now. Thank you very much. 2 against, therefore, the proposal was adopted to remove this from the agenda and put it for the next session. So 11 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. Please, colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that due to the law on old foreign currency savings, which was in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has ordered the Council of Ministers, i.e. participants in law-making to pass the law, and it is 16 this month. However, since Catholics have holidays and there is a big Friday, so Easter, we decided to get that deadline so that we don't fall into a difficult situation so that we can schedule the 13th session and the 13th session and have a House of Representatives and we would hold our session in that big hall, simply not allow us to violate the Constitutional Court's decision and, simply, to finish our quality work, with this statement, please try and make sure that we have a quorum to come all to the session. I wish you good luck and thank you very much for your cooperation. The seat is closed at 10.55 hours.
