ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6211	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so we can begin with the 61st session. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, I welcome you all who are here and I am opening the 61st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are currently 12 delegates present at the session with Mr. Šiljegović and Mr. Radovanović joining us who, who have just received a high delegation from the Defence Commission, I think, so Mr. Brka will join us, here I am getting information, also in the same Commission, and he will join us very quickly, but we have a quorum for work here so that we can determine practically that at today's session, Branko Zrno is absent, justifiably. So since we have a quorum we can decide. I suggest we start working and for today's 61st session I propose the next updated 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 60th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the Emergency Communication Act, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, here in the invitation you have a small mistake, says that this is the Central Bank Bill's proposal, in fact, these are amendments, a proposal to amend the Central Bank Act, so six. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 27. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Tariff Act by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for an e-signature law under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in BiH (first reading); - our colleague Halid Genjac, 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law of 17.5.2006) - First reading, 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law of 29.5.2006) - First reading, 12. Report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, 13. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2005, 14. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Department for 2005, 15. Report on activities on Project "Autoput na Corridor 5c", 16. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period 01.01 – 30.06.2006, 17. Security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, 18. Annual Platform on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security and Intelligence Policy, 19th Proposal for documents on concession policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the general principles of participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Community programmes, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Government of the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, on Financial Co-operation, 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the return of its own nationals and foreigners whose stay is illegal and the Protocol for the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the readmission of its own nationals and foreigners whose stay is illegal; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, including the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the one part, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on certain aspects of air traffic, 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Separate Debt Exchange Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Creditworthy Fur Wiederufbau (KFW), 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Employment Reconstruction Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH) – Housing Loan Programme and the Programme for the Credit of Small and Medium Enterprises – Between the Council of Ministers of BiH and KFW, Frankfurt am Main, 3.28. Giving consent to the ratification of the credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Bank Austria Credit Advertising AG for the Gruda Municipality Water Supply Project, 29. Giving consent to ratification of the Credit Agreement – A project to modernise hospitals between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of Republika Srpska and Export-Import Bank of Korea, 30. The appointment of a member of the Office to discuss complaints from the field of performance of works, public procurement, transport and strategic and business management, 31. The appointment of four members of the BiH Radio-Television Service Management Board and the duration of their mandates. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6213	Dear President, dear colleagues, I propose that a point be placed on the agenda that would allow the House of Peoples to adopt a conclusion on the appeal of the Middle East crisis that causes civilian casualties and serious destruction. Therefore, the conflict in the Middle East that has lasted for 15 days has caused huge civilian casualties, suffering, suffering, and destruction. On behalf of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been through all of this, in our recent past, with severe pain experiencing the deaths of children, women and civilians in Lebanon, Palestine and Israel, we therefore suggest that this Apple be adopted. In the text of the Apple, we propose and invite the UN and the International Community to do whatever it takes to make it under 1. Immediately established a complete and comprehensive permanent ceasefire, this is the most important prerequisite for stopping even greater civilian casualties, their migration, the destruction of housing, infrastructure and other material goods, under 2. In order to ensure humanitarian assistance, safe roads for its delivery and fully ensure all necessary, everyone in need of drinking water, food, medicines and medical care - we call on the UN, international governments and NGOs to immediately provide the necessary amounts of humanitarian aid. We call on the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, government organisations and citizens to immediately engage in the collection of this assistance and its delivery to the most vulnerable, under 3rd. In order for parties to conflict and the international community to agree that immediately after the ceasefire, negotiations should begin to ensure a comprehensive and just peace of mind for the benefit of all in Palestine, Lebanon and Israel, as well as in the Middle East and in the world. The example of Bosnia and Herzegovina is good evidence that even the most difficult conflicts and differences can be resolved by political agreement. So, the Bosniaks Club proposes to establish the adoption of a conclusion on the agenda that would lead this Apple in front of the House of Peoples. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6214	Here I am, as chairman and as head of the club, since there is no club chief or deputy here at the moment, I suggest a 15-minute break to be delivered to us in writing, so we will continue our work. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] ...guests, representatives of this Council of Ministers, continue this session today, the 61st session of the House of Peoples. There was a break with regard to the proposed conclusion that Apple was being directed and here in the meantime, as I was informed, it was in line. Is there any need to read this text? What do the club bosses say? Well, here you go. Here, I suggest Mr. Halid Genjac read the text of the conclusion. Actually, we're putting it on the agenda now. We're just getting into the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm Genjac. So there's still a debate about the agenda. Any suggestions yet? Mr. Filiović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6216	Thank you very much for your word. I would give one suggestion that, possibly, the issue of taking off the agenda of the last item – the appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina and determining the duration of their mandate. I'll only give you two reasons. The first reason was that, a day or two ago, the Constitutional Court of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina announced a harmful Law on Public Radio Television Service of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Croatian people in the Federation. The same provision, declared by the Federation Constitutional Court, was also contained in the Law on the Public Television System and the Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, the second reason, very important, which is why I think it should stop implementing this law in this house, because the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus and Servis in certain articles decided by the Constitutional Court of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina the other day, has been subject to an assessment of constitutionality by members of the Croatian People's Presidency, Mr Ivo Mire Jović, of which the Constitutional Court has not yet decided. The Constitutional Court has rejected only Mr Ivo Mire Jović's proposal to, therefore, adopt a measure to suspend the application of that law. So it was rejected, but it did not assess the constitutionality, so it was not decided by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I would ask, if possible, that, therefore, to consider also taking point 31 off today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6217	I thank my colleague Filipović. Next, who's calling for a discussion? No more debates. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. So, first, we'll vote who's in favour of the conclusion of the Bošnjak klub to refer to the crisis in the Middle East that causes civilian casualties and severe destruction to be placed on the agenda. 5 Please join the vote. I find that we unanimously, this one has accepted the proposal to include this, this conclusion, the proposal to put this conclusion on the agenda. Then we had a second proposal, which is to remove the 31st point from the agenda, i.e. the last point as established here – the appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to determine the duration of their term of office on Mr Filipović's proposal. So, I'm opening a vote. Who's in favour of taking it off means who's to take the vote off, who's to keep the vote against. So this remains on the agenda and therefore the agenda with the proposal for this conclusion is adopted and this last item remains on the agenda. We're crossing, so this one's on the agenda. First item of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answers to the delegates' questions for today were given before today's session by Mr. Đoko Pajić and Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Are your colleagues satisfied with the answers you received? Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6219	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues delegates, honored guests, so I got the answer, partly satisfied. In fact, I asked the question, "Why not so far and when a commission will be formed and so on. and td’. I am pleased that finally this commission for the investigation of the victims of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period '92-'95, of course I am pleased that it was finally formed but I have not received a complete answer – why so far not, because we know that the parliamentary assembly's conclusion was from January 2004, so it has been two and a half years since then. So to one, that part of the question I didn't get an answer for, why it hasn't been so far, but I am finally satisfied that this Commission has finally been formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6220	Thank you, colleague Pajić. Mr. Šiljegović is pleased. So I figure he's happy with the answer. Any new delegate questions? My colleague Hasan Čengić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6221	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, media and other 6 I am taking the opportunity to welcome you and I have a few questions for Mr. Sulejman Tihić, the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and the civilian command of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army. According to local press, 200,000 rifles were sold from Bosnia and Herzegovina recently to Iraq. With that in mind, I would like to set up, get the following answers - one: Is it even true that weapons and equipment were officially sold from Bosnia and Herzegovina to someone outside the country? Two If yes, who made the decision to sell those weapons to and to whom, and did the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency know that? Is it true that the weapons were sold before the decision was made on the structure and schedule of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army and before that structure was really established? Four What's and exactly how many weapons and equipment sold? Five to whom did this weapon belong? How much did the Republika Srpska Army belong and how many components of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. how many Croatian components and how many Bosniaks? Six whose enduser certificate was used to realize this job? Seven Which domestic or foreign company, or company, has realised this job? Eight, how much money did you get out of this job? And nine for what purpose were these funds spent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6222	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Any more questions. Mr. Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6223	Well, I'll have three questions. I was in last session of the House of Peoples, I thought I would take the opportunity to take advantage of the presence of representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Prosecutors' Office when we discussed a report by the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2005. I asked those questions, I didn't get an answer. Well, here's what I'm going to officially do to the BiH D.A. and set them up. The first question: In 2004, the district public prosecutor's office in Bijeljina filed criminal charges against war crimes officials committed in Tuzla on 15 May 1992 when in a column of soldiers, which had been peacefully withdrawn in other parts of Yugoslavia after an agreement had been reached with the authorities of Tuzla. About 250 innocent people have been killed so far eshumized and identified around 130, and for 100, 120 are still missing. The UN tribunal's prosecution has previously agreed to conduct proceedings before the BiH Court of Justice. I ask the question, so did the Prosecutor's Office confirm those criminal charges and have there been any charges brought before the BiH Court of Justice for the above-mentioned war crimes? 7 Second question also to the BiH Prosecutor's Office: In 2004, the district public prosecutor's office in Bijeljina filed criminal charges against 49 people and after all evidence was collected for war crimes committed against the Serb people in the area of Srebrenica, Bratunc and Skelana in the period 1992-93. The year, where 34 villages were burned and robbed, about 1,200 others were killed, 80 of whom were reported missing, and the rest were expelled. Question. Have these criminal charges been confirmed by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and how many and how many indictments have been brought before the BiH Court of Justice for the above-mentioned war crimes? The UN tribunal's prosecution also agreed to conduct proceedings before the BiH Court of Justice. For these two questions, of course I asked them because I'm in touch with those families. Often they come, they ask, and of course I would like to know about it so that I could give these families a concrete answer. And the third question to the BiH Council of Ministers: Article 15 Missing Persons Act (the Official Messenger of BiH), No. 50/04) and which took effect in 17.11.2004, the obligation to set up a Missing Persons Fund at BiH level from... would be financed by the real families of missing persons provided for by this law, means at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask why the Fund has not been formed so far, and at the same time I appeal, on behalf of a significant number of families of missing persons, that this Council of Ministers' assembly of the Council of Ministers should end this commitment by the end of the term of office, so that the families of missing persons in BiH finally begin to realise, and so on a very, very minor right to which they have been waiting almost 2 years from the adoption of that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6224	Thank you, colleague Pajić. Next is Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6225	I thank you, gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, honored guests, I would like to ask a question, in fact, more as an initiative, given the newly created situation relating to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In fact, at the last meeting of the House of Peoples, we accepted the resignation of three members of the Office for Appeals, of the 5 appointed and, in essence, the work of the Office for Appeals has been disabled. You remember well that on several occasions we had an extension of the law on public procurement in that article concerning the jurisdiction to consider complaints for public procurement, which was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So since 01.04.2006, there is no longer the ministry's jurisdiction to consider complaints, and the Office for the Review of Appeals has not been qualified, or is not staffed to do so. Currently in office, only two members of the six scheduled laws are doing so in the order of the Bosniak people. Today, at the meeting of this house as one of the points of the agenda of appointment of one of the members of the office, it would be the third member, who again does not provide the quorum and again does not provide for the work of the office. I would also remind you that we also received an appeal from the Office of Appeals and Public Procurement, that the simple law, the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, was put into question. Two days ago, we had a Finance Commission, then from the Office of Appeals, a man who was present, a member of the Office of Appeals, said that at that moment they had 310 complaints filed by no one. We certainly question this team, not only the implementation of the law, but 8 we will question and certainly the enormous consequences, perhaps even the budget, because all those who have complained, which the timely administration does not respond to, or institutions that are competent under the law, will launch, most likely, many of them litigation that will be carried out afterwards. For this reason, I was in charge of the Finance Commission to see with someone from the Ministry of Finance how we can possibly overcome it, which would be a transitional solution to simply not be a total blockade because the time of annual holidays, elections and so forth comes. The last procedure for conducting a complete appeal office lasted 10 months. We had a proposal that the current Office of Appeals was filled with the following list because it was a candidate from the order of the Croatian people, and thus would be created, to create preconditions to fill the quorum and to allow the office for complaints to start working, to mean that the public procurement system is regulated as it is by law. However, the opinion of the lawyer that it is not legal. In my opinion, the worst solution is to leave it unfulfilled and leave it in the state in which it is in this situation and time and whatever other way you want. You know that the largest number of objections to the revision itself is currently referring to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, and this is what we consciously or unconsciously create preconditions for total disregard for the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, since the initiatives that we may have proposed did not, in essence, when we resolved those three members, leave them to work in the technical mandate until this office was filled in, as a commitment, simply this system was currently blocked and for this reason I asked the question here. So this was some initiative that I even felt was necessary to run as a part of the agenda today, but here, because maybe it wasn't prepared enough for me to go this way. How will the chairman of the Council of Ministers, how will the chairman of the Council of Ministers intend to resolve the new situation and enable the implementation of the Public Procurement Act in a legitimate way and who will suffer the potential consequences of this non-implementation? My second question is, in fact, the repetition of the issues I had asked earlier, I think, two sessions and I didn't get an answer, as far as the application of the Traffic Safety Act is concerned, on the roads to BiH. I asked then and now I repeat again, since the application of the law starts from the eighth day of October, 08th, means in about ten days, what authorities have done to prepare sublegal acts, regulations, what they have done to adapt the existing horizontal and vertical signalling in accordance with the law and what they have done to the education of those who, directly on the ground, are going to implement this law because we know for sure that the implementation of this law will have little greater consequences for a much wider, wider layer of people. So the simple sanctions are much bigger than they've been before and I don't see any shifts in the field, I don't know if certain rules have been passed? So I'd like to repeat that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6226	I thank my colleague, Ruža Stojanović, but I have to, I'm going to use this post as chairman, so I have to look back on this first question of hers. 9 This is indeed a major problem can be in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the functioning of this Board of Appeal. It builds up people from day to day, we get answers, a guy like we have to implement now a procedure that, according to some estimates, can take up to 6 months, so this one really needs us, I suggest to colleagues from college that, in some of the breaks, we come up with a way to appeal, ring there and tell people hello solve, it's a really big problem of this country and it's getting bigger every day, because what if the lawsuits start, this can lead to a total collapse in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, is there any more questions? If he's not here, I have one question. So on the basis of Article 117. I am asking the rules of procedure of the House of Nations the following delegation question. The budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 referred to in paragraph 37, Section 3, item 3, set out the funds of 500,000 KM intended to produce a project documentation for the methodology and start-up of activities on the census. Given that the security of reliable static indicators is one of the very important conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the European Union and other international organisations, from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Agency and the Council of Ministers, I ask that in writing the following questions are answered: What has been done during the past period, so these first 7 months, have been done to realize the tasks for which the budgetary resources have been provided, to which activities, in which scope the allocations have been spent, and when a proposal for an appropriate Census Act can be expected, and the very beginning of this census itself, as the basis of all necessary statistical indicators. Thank you. Any more questions. There isn't. I'm closing this agenda item. We move to the next point, so the second point, A.2.A., is the adoption of the minutes from the 60th session of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6236	Dear colleagues, we are the Law on the Basics of Traffic Safety on the Roads...... in the practice so far prescribed that training candidates for drivers from the teaching course provide first aid to persons injured in a car accident is done by a doctor and organizes only the Red Cross. Until earlier practice was that a number of humanitarian organisations, if they meet the conditions, can organise training by engaging doctors as the Red Cross does. In the meantime, a number of other humanitarian organisations, which according to the current resolution and currently in force in cantons, or entities, have such powers, have been identified as such the exclusiveity of the Red Cross-Cross organisation. Irregular treatment, i.e. state according to humanitarian organisations. They responded, so Red Crescent, MHS Medical Society Foundation, Merhamet, Federation of the Federation of BiH Auto Schools, etc. Some of them point out that 13 adopted solutions, when the law begins to apply, will remove the right to organize training for which, like the Red Cross, the cross is qualified and fully accomplished. The powers, therefore, bring certain income to humanitarian organisations from this area, so humanitarian organisations believe that, as well as the Red Cross, under the same conditions, which will be prescribed by the Regulation in accordance with the Transport Safety Act, these humanitarian organisations should, therefore, be opened or left with such opportunities, income acquisitions for which they have the opportunities and which they should, therefore, need to be established by the rules set out in that Article. The intention of the law is, therefore, that, in an equal, intention of the bill on amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety which I have proposed is actually to equate humanitarian organisations, to have equal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6237	I thank the motionary, fellow Genjac. There's an open discussion, please. I don't see any reports. So I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law, and I'm sorry we have, we have a representative of the Council of Ministers. You're not the one who suggested it. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. I'm giving my word to the Ministry of Resort, please. Okay, the promoter is a Genjac, but they're right, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6238	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am Nikola Šegot, Secretary of the Department of Transport and Communications. When it comes to this proposal to amend and supplement the Transport Safety Act, the Ministry's Professional Service discussed the proposal, and when we came to an end, it means that everything and this one, in order to say the preparation of this law, was more like this. It was on commissions, too, arguing who to entrust training to when it comes to first aid. It was to be done by health care institutions, that's what I'm saying, there was such a proposal, I don't know who it was... it seems to me to be the Council of Ministers. They were also in play, to say this, that all humanitarian organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina can carry out this training, but, at least this one, when they invented some data that there are several hundred of these humanitarian organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these registered and more, they are all interested in carrying out that training. And when we went through those official papers, we really saw that really, terribly many, this one can guarantee, at least a hundred of them are registered for such, for such activity, or registration is for all of them, I can say this one. So if we accept it and put it in that, humanitarian organisations can do anything, this one can do it, it seems to me that it would be difficult to control and conclude, here I am saying, in the end, both in preparation and on committees. Since the Red Cross has registered in all municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it means in all municipalities, it is then concluded that it is the only one to confide in them. Because it'll make it so much easier to control and program for that training. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6239	I'd like to thank the representative of the Resolute Ministry. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6240	In part, I can, of course, agree with the explanation of the ministry's representative. However, if the Bill of Amendments is carefully read, Article 1 states: “The training of candidates for drivers and the teaching course of providing first aid to persons injured by a medical accident is organised by a humanitarian organisation to whom such public authority is given, in accordance with the regulation of Article 6. The public authority referred to in this Article shall be given by a special law, provided that the work of a humanitarian organisation is governed by a special law or by a decision of the Minister responsible for the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 6 of this Act. It would not be good, therefore, if by logic, there were a lot of humanitarian organisations, so let only one organisation work, to prevent the possibility of organisations registered for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also having assumptions of very high quality conditions to perform, should not eliminate them but rather leave the possibility, and then the regulation of which will be adopted by the resolution ministry takes care of the criteria and takes care of how to achieve this quality. I don't think it is, it is not correct to treat humanitarian organisations that have, therefore, capacities and which indeed part of this income is realised for the reason that there are many humanitarian organisations and that may be manipulated by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6241	I thank my fellow Genjac. I'm a colleague of Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6242	I'm sorry that an esteemed colleague from the ministry wasn't present yesterday at the committee's session, I suppose it was good, that they were present because they had the opportunity to engage in the discussion of this law. The Commission has considered this law and unanimously supported the law, and the main and only reason why it was done is this: We have in basic law made a mistake in fact that we have monopolized the position of only one organisation, one institution when it comes to training people for first aid in taking the driving exam. So there's no reason anyone in this country should have a monopoly. We don't have a monopoly on such big things, why would we provide a monopoly on these issues, on the one hand, and on the other hand, by proposing this law, a complete real decision on who meets the conditions, through giving a solution, and that means the possibility of withdrawing the solution still has a ministry. So the ministry has full authority over it and the ministry cannot say there will be a verse. Because the law stipulates that, that this activity could be done by one who has a solution to the ministry. And that's, I mean quite right and any solution that would really monopolize anyone would be bad and would be ultimately at the expense of the citizens. Standards, criteria, meeting the conditions, implementing the conditions is something that will remain at the ministry with the full power of the ministry to decide, it also means to give but also to withdraw consent if someone meets the requirements. 15 In that sense, I think that this law, that this amendment of law only actually improves, otherwise good law and in no way endangers citizens, nor puts anyone in an unequal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6243	I thank my colleague Čengić this but I must say that we have actually moved on to another reading here because we are not talking about the principles of necessity, the principles on which the law is based but essentially, here I guess we won't have a discussion about it, it is intertwined. I give my word to my colleague, Osman Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6244	I'll do it very briefly. I'm very surprised that the Ministry's representative is coming out and saying that it's easier for us to control. I can't understand that in a day you can't have complete information about who can, who meets the conditions that you can do that? You don't have any control issues. Absolutely. That member of Law One that Dr. Genjac read, he's very clear. And you don't have what's hard for you to control if there's more. That's an incredible attitude. That's what I'm saying because I worked in that area for a while, so I know what it looks like. People fight for monopoly, you give them a monopoly, with what right. That's against it, it's against the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have a monopoly. Please, it's no argument that you can control it more easily.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6245	I thank my colleague, Brk. No more reports, I can't see them. Please use electronics because we have it at our disposal. So we're voting on the law in the first reading. I'm opening a vote. We have two abstentions. [[Common discussion]] So I find that the law in the first reading has been passed. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. If there's any discussion now, there isn't, we've exhausted everything. So please vote, the vote is open. We're voting in procedure if we're going to go to another reading, I'm sorry, I'm a little confused by Mustafa here. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6249	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the international community and public information funds. Since I've been discussing this for the first time today, I've taken the opportunity to welcome you all. I just want to come here with a few words to get involved in the debate. Namely, as is evident from today's agenda, we have three points relating to police, better say certain changes, additions and in the first case acceptance of something the High Representative himself brought in 2004. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have any dilemmas about support and principles and this law itself, and as far as I know, there were no amendments that would question the very content of the law. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say, in a way, to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that, at all things about the police, we do not go by dynamics as necessary and do not go by law enforcement in a way that, within certain reasonable time limits, we respect what, existing legal solutions, is referred to as an obligation. So it turns out, if we don't, I'd say, quality laws and we have to change them, and above all because of the fact that they don't run, they don't implement in practice. We change them in a short time and a few times. Such fate is, unfortunately, even those laws passed by the High Representative, namely the law in which foreign experts are prepared, 17 therefore representatives of the international community. It turns out that the Council of Ministers is not competent to fight to adapt legal solutions to our terms. In 2004, we received the Law on Police Officers, which includes the establishment of a Police Committee within the Ministry of Security. And of course we can't implement this provision because we don't have enough police officers with the rank of chief inspector, and it's understandable that this law could be applied in Switzerland, Italy, France or Denmark, for example, but in our case, it's clearly not the case, and it took us two years to figure it out, so here we go with the appropriate changes that would allow those police officers who have the rank of independent inspectors to be chosen in these places. And of course this is not good because time is passing and we are, in a certain way, here in this..... sense we are not able to see how much certain laws will be enforceable and this is one of the equative examples, of course that, I said already at the beginning, I have no dilemma, I will vote for this and that next law, so in that sense I took a little more time, so I will not report at the next item of the agenda. But it would really be necessary for the Proposer, in this case the Council of Ministers, to consider this element related to implementation, because it is unserious, however, to pass the relevant law, to lose two years, and only now to go with an amendment that will allow this body, therefore called the Police Committee, to really establish and start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6250	I thank my colleague Limov. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, namely, despite the report I received from the competent parliamentary commission, here's an explanation that is in large part of my colleague Tomislav Limov. Amendments to Article 121 want to extend the time limit for complaints, which only balances this time limit with the standard time limit in the administrative procedure otherwise. Amendments to Article 122 aim to establish a Police Committee within the Ministry of Security. The amendments also provide for lower criteria for the appointment of members of this Police Committee where they are so far, e.g. Three members should have the rank of chief inspector. As it has been found in practice to exist in a very small number of persons holding a higher rank, it has been disabled by the establishment and work of the Police Committee. Meanwhile, a large number of complaints have accumulated. The proposed amendments therefore provide for a reduction of the conditions for the selection of members of the Police Committee so that it can indeed be established in practice. Here's just one piece, a piece of ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6252	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Are there any more debaters? So we're voting on the law in the first reading. I urge you to approach the vote. He was unanimously adopted. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. 18 Please state that immediately. It was unanimously adopted to conduct the discussion in another reading. So there's a debate on amendments, there's a vote on the law. There was no amendment to the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. I urge you to approach the vote. The law was unanimously passed, so in the same text as in the House of Representatives. 11th Point of the Agenda, Ad.11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this refers to the Law of 29/05/2006, first reading You received the law as well as a report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Joint Commission adopted an amendment that has become an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. I'm opening a debate. No reports have been reported. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law in first reading. Open vote. I find it unanimous, so we passed this law in our first reading. I suggest we hold a debate at today's session in another reading. Please make your point. Open vote. We unanimously adopted this proposal. So we move on to another reading that discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments to the bill. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6254	I, President, very briefly, also despite the reports you have from the committee in charge. The reason for amending this law stems from the fact that the SIP in the transitional period, which was due to be completed by 31/07, failed to complete, i.e. the employment of police officers currently employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's law enforcement services due to lack of necessary financial resources. 19 One reason is also the existing process of reconstruction of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is therefore necessary to extend this deadline until 31/07.2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6255	I thank my colleague, Šiljegović. Are there any reported debaters? I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. The open vote is unanimous, therefore the law adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. 12th agenda, Add. 12. Report on implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005 And here's a representative of the Council of Ministers if he wants to, yes, this one speaks here. You have received a report, so on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, which was delivered to us by the BiH Presidency, a report from the committee responsible. Is there a need, Mr. Representative of the Council of Ministers Mr. Kumalić – believes that nothing is needed. Is there, will you, okay? I'll take it. So by Article 95, we have to vote on the report. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6257	Well, gentlemen, here's the chairman, I'll just have one sentence. Here I am, and I've been here these days and last week, I didn't get that report, I don't know whose fault it is, so I don't have it, so I'm gonna be abstention when I vote. I still think the failure is someone's, I don't know why I don't have that report, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6258	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, President of the Commission, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6259	So here's because Mr. Đoko complains that he didn't get the report, then on behalf of the Commission I'd just like to say that we had the Finance and Administrative Affairs Commission at home on 25th of July, or two days ago, and that's probably the reason why, maybe in the materials, there's a lost report. 20 The Commission mainly considered the report on the implementation of the 2005 budget and unanimously accepted the report as proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and concluded that the report could be accepted and proposed to the House its adoption. Otherwise, here's what I'm going to say is that the planned revenue, in fact, is higher than the planned revenue by 13% and that the funds are spent in the frameworks planned, so 35,459,409 is an increased budget reserve, so we realized that this year there is a huge shift in the discipline of budget consumers and also an impact, certainly the audit reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6260	Thank you, Mrs. Ruža. I believe that our colleague Đoko will change his decision, that these were sufficiently convincing arguments. Are there any more discussions that have been reported? So no one's answering anymore. We will now declare this report, so on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2005. I invite you to plead, the vote is open, who's in. We have two abstentions. So it's over, this report has passed. And now it's in line with the Kolegijum's agreement I declare a break until 3:00. Please be here at 15 to get back to work. [[PAUZA]] The esteemed guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers, have obtained the terms of whether, a break has expired to continue. We've reached the 13th point of the agenda, which is Ad.13. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2005
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6263	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, thank you for giving me the opportunity to address on behalf of the institution, I will respect your time. I just want to complain about a few things that I can get out of this year's report. First of all, the report suggests that judicial sector reform is comprehensive and that the reform is going successfully. It is not just the appointment of judges and prosecutors to reform the judicial system and it is not just the number of resolved or pending cases. This is a reform that involves 21 reforms of the entire system and the system is also a judicial administration, the system is also judicial objects that are in very poor condition, the system is also the equipment of courts and prosecutors and the system is the creation of the management capabilities of the President of the Courts. These are all the directions in which this reform is taking place and you could see it from the chapter of this report. What represents the key problems of this reform and the judiciary in BiH is the number of pending cases or cases that we have taken over from, which have been inherited. They are currently around 1 million and 300 in BiH. You can see the exact number in the report. The increase compared to last year is about 200,000 and these are cases that were not recorded in the Sarajevo Court of Justice. In the main 64% of these cases, the total outstanding cases relate to the non-payment of municipal services and execution procedures in these cases. It is currently the most difficult legal problem in BiH, and if we do not find a systemic solution to this problem, we will never become an effective judiciary. If that just happened in another European country, their system would be completely paralyzed. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is unable to resolve the problem. We asked the president of the courts to make plans to solve these unsolved old cases, so to determine the structure of the case, the year of age, and to make plans to solve these cases. And that's what you do. We create other conditions for procedures to be effective. They were adopted as you know effective laws procedural, litigious and criminal, no lengthy length of procedure. The problem is these old objects that are solved under the old law and which are inherited and among them this structure of the subject. What we would like to be a way out of this situation is one comprehensive state strategy to solve this problem that would involve new laws and other ways of solving this problem. We don't think these communal cases should be court cases. They are not, in their nature, judicial paedmets, simply not paying their obligations, and this should be the subject of some administrative execution or some other executive procedure. It's expensive for a system to deal with a court, a judicial organisation to deal with a 50-mark claim. And right now, you've seen what, 700 thousand objects refer to that kind of dispute. Can't (?) to offer solutions, we made one project, we took it to the Swedish AIDS to finance it, we simply analyze all the items, the whole system, and to offer both laws and other directions to get out of this situation. We have tried to solve this problem, by giving authority, by court authority to experts to resolve these more leniency types of disputes, between them and this kind of dispute. We plan to appoint about 160 expert associates to help judges solve a part of this problem. Part of the problem is likely to cross the Notary Service, part of the problem could go into circulation if we can get that system, and as you know, mediation laws have been passed, to affirm it. But I think the point is that with these utility companies, we find a solution to this kind of dispute that is currently coming to court and the court has turned into a public debt incasator, which I think is simply inadmissible for one system. So it would be good, together with the ministries, if this Parliament asked the Justice Department to draw up such a strategy that we would form together the High Court and 22 Prosecutor's Council and the Justice Ministry and possibly involve other interested entities in solving this problem. Another important problem is the financing of the judiciary. He's currently on level 14. So state level, entity, 10 cantonal plus Brcko District. That's what's causing us a lot of trouble. We just can't finance it and we can't control it. Some of them seem pretty bad, so we come into situations that some courts have turned off phones, that the post office cancels general shipping, that power is excluded, etc. In Unsko-Sanski Canton, even the judges didn't receive their salary for three months. So there are serious problems, with such a frustrated funding, and we should find a solution to this problem. We are aware that this problem is of a political nature, we are merely pointing to it. So we can offer some sort of solution in one debate but it is a predominantly political problem and we need to find a solution, as you have seen and functioned... an analysis of the justice sector points to this problem and it will likely come to some pressures on the agenda but we, we would like to see it start to solve this problem as soon as possible. That's what I wanted to tell you briefly. I know I can't just bring up all the problems the judiciary faces. What is an additional problem is that the current reform is based mainly on donor funds. When the donor aid ceases, BiH should take over the solution to these problems and simply burden the budget further. When it's going to be and in which direction it's going to go, we'll see but we need to make sure that the system is in serious crisis. For the first time, we have done an analysis of the state of BiH's judicial and prosecutorial facilities and we have complete project documentation of the reconstruction, so for the first time it has for BiH. That would cost a total of 26 million marks. It would be good if it could be found at the level of BiH funds for the reconstruction of these facilities. Some courts have such bad installations that they couldn't support the computer system, and we want to develop modern justice. Each judge today has a computer, has a network at the level of the court and we plan to establish a network at BiH level with a documentary centre at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that will be able to enter the passions, lawyers, citizens, simply so that they can see what kind of decisions are being made in which courts and what is the case-law. We want to have a modern justice system. This is how the concept of reform is imagined. This is being assisted by the European Commission and we expect now that this project of reform of the courts for violations, that we will get more computer units for the judges that are planned in the infringement departments. As you know, misdemeanor reform is being brought to an end, misdemeanor courts become part of the judicial system. I think that we are the country in the region that went the farthest in these judicial reforms and you will see this year...an international organisation that monitors the efficiency of the judiciary in Europe will report on which BiH will be involved. So far, we've never been represented there. They've had no information about our system. We found it online, simply that several European countries and BiH are not represented at all. This will be the most relevant analysis of the judiciary and the most relevant assessment of the BiH judiciary reform. Thank you, I'm prepared to answer your questions if you have them. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6264	Thank you. Here, there's an open debate. Mr. Ilija Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6265	Thank you very much for your word, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present, Minister Čolak and others from the executive office and others who are monitoring the work and these very persistent few representatives of the international community. So, I would say very briefly just one thing about the report that we provided after the debate on this report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council after the debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We held a hearing two days ago on the Constitutional and Legal Commission as a relevant committee for this report and heard a very extensive opening statement that she gave us on behalf of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, Mrs Pašagić. And after the debate, we came to the conclusion that it's a very valuable institution that works in this country, which deserves high grades and that's what they're told on the USA. We also suggest that this House discuss this report in this regard. So it's about an extremely well-produced report and a methodological and content report, which is very important. So it covered everything that had been an ingredient, was part of the work, therefore, of this judicial and prosecutorial council in the last year. We have estimated that such results are behind this state institution that they are measurable with the reforms made in the area of defence that seem to be in the area of police because the terrible results have been achieved. So we know in what atmosphere, how it was and layered legally regulated this, the work of the judiciary at all in both entities in 10 counties etc. Now we know that there's been a very, very lot of order made here, which is for every commendation. It is certainly commendable that what is futuristically predicted is therefore, in the next period to be done by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which is that each case will be numbered in each court, that the results of each court and every judge will be measured. So that's something that only 2-3 years ago was unimaginable that we would have, of course, needed one logistics support. We have seen that you also have a wheezing as well as other bodies that are reporting to Parliament in relation to the funds. I think that both this home and the next assembly of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly would have to take care of, so some projections will be done even in this session to secure sufficient resources, to achieve these goals and to have it set in one right way. What we are doing is still discussing this report in the House of Peoples. What we often mention, especially from the Croatian Club, so with all these commendations, one small specimen. So, I'm surprised by a layered therefore, approach or selective approach to something that the Constitution does not allow you and it is about the High Judicial and Prosecution Council that should not in any way apply the Constitution. This is a selective approach to 3 official languages in this country and 2 official letters in this country. So I got this very high-quality report that I now commended, so here's the thing, there's no Cyrillic with any copies, printed in Latin, or in Croatian. So, I wish that as a representative in the House of Peoples, I believe that that's what colleagues from other clubs think, that we got it in 24 languages of our people to whom we belong and whose interests we protect and defend here and that we got it on two letters official, as prescribed by the BiH Constitution. So there is no one's right in a selective way to apply one constitutional norm. I don't think you need me to tell Mr. Festić, you're fully aware of that. I believe there is a good intention behind this, to save funds, but please also "The Official Messenger of BiH" is being printed and every act published there goes in the official languages and in both letters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6266	I thank my colleague Filipović. Here you go. Mr. Hasan Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6267	I'm taking the opportunity to welcome Minister Čolak, Mr. Petrić and tell Perić and I'm glad we have a chance to talk here today. So by respecting and accepting the evaluations presented by our committee on the report and the high scores presented by the President of the Commission, Mr Filipović at this time, so that this should not, therefore, express this quality in quantity, I will move on to this second part of my discussion. Let me say that I believe that with this kind of approach, you're too late for these questions. You, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, are late with this in relation to Parliament's Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We've been in this term for four years and in this assembly, except for two of my colleagues, we've been here ever since the beginning. I can say on behalf of all of us with equal determination to do everything we can as the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly, to help the work of all the institutions dealing with this issue. Respecting everything you've said you've done, I think it was necessary for you to seek better co-operation and greater support from the Parliamentary Assembly earlier. If the idea is that you have not done so so far, to try to avoid political influence and to retain independence, of course, when it comes to communication with the Parliamentary Assembly is entirely satisfied with the fact that this is not an executive power, but is a Parliamentary Assembly. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because you mentioned a few important questions today that we can't fix right now. One of the questions is financial. This House has given support to the proposed budget, this House will not have the opportunity to discuss the next budget, as I understand it because it comes to elections but there was a mood to support the budget, which is what you think you need to fix the situation. In order to be able to discuss this, it was necessary in time and it is necessary in time to appear before the Parliamentary Assembly, to present your demands, your proposals and to suggest such and such a sum of funds for better financing and problem-solving. Secondly, obviously it is necessary and I am very glad that today is the first time that I have experienced that you appear here in the role of the host, in the role of someone who says problems, and that nature is something about 25 we care about, what we see, what we think needs to be fixed, and we are trying to do our part of the job. So far, I had the impression that there is actually no address with which this parliamentary assembly can speak. You are today, which is extremely important to me, has appeared in the position that you are this partner, that you are the address that takes care of these issues. I especially appreciate that. It is true that the issue of the functioning of the institutions you spoke about is a political issue. Since that is the case, it was necessary to identify and make a distinction from what is called, between what is called the influence of the authorities on the judicial authorities and what is called the need to resolve issues through the institutions of the state, or through institutions in the BiH state. It is clear that the reconstruction of the facilities is also necessary, it is clear that more equipment is needed, it is clear that more resources are needed for the quality functioning of the courts, but it is also clear that there is no basis, that we cannot think at all about that the Parliamentary Assembly will agree to give and provide financial resources for the reconstruction of courts, for better funding of courts in a position where some institutions within BiH are considered completely independent of the state, namely the Parliamentary Assembly. It cannot be asked of BiH to give money and that, past BiH, there is a judiciary in a certain area and a certain area in BiH, of course, that it is not something you can decide on but of course we cannot decide on it in quality without attitude, or information, without a clear premonition of the situation that is what you have stated in your report and how you have today made it very brief but very convincing. The next question is that it is really inadmissible for this country to choke on hundreds of thousands of pending court cases and cases for me that are pseudo-judicial but formally here in courts, and that everyone in BiH, me as a member of the House, you as the chairman of the Council and all present here who have certain communication on this issue, have not found at least a proposal, if not a solution to at least how to get out of it. Of course it is clear that it is necessary to form a working group, of course that this task force should be formed a year and over and that you and the Ministry of Communications on this issue have not found at least a proposal, if not a solution, at least a proposal on how to get out of it. Of course it's clear that we need to form a task force. Of course, this task force was to be formed a year and over and that you and the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina were to be represented and representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly were to be represented. And to sit together to work, day, three, month, three months and come up with a proposal that will probably have to be passed by a special law that will try, from this state in which we are, to bring us into a technical, technical and formal normal state under quotes normally. So in a situation where we will really share what is a direct Serbian jurisdiction and what is burying the courts, which should not and should not be a question of the activities and occupation of the courts. Of these questions, disputes. according to the infrastructure, further. As far as I know, we have a situation in the city of Sarajevo, let's say the registration of sales contracts runs by you concluding today's contract, and today in the Sarajevo court today they registered the 2003 contract. And that contract you concluded today will come to order in two years. And the other day I had, I accidentally got asked by a man, I bought a house, I heard these cantonal authorities were going to tear this house down because of how the road goes. However, the house is located on, namely it's registered, it's listed in a cadastre there on the one from which I bought it. I only have a contract to get the money. Me who actually paid for the house or the one whose name that house was registered earlier. And he says there's nothing I can do to speed up that 26 ownership transfer procedure on my behalf. Of course this may be a question for you lawyers, it's not a question, I'm, I've also heard the answer that it is. However, we must not allow us to confuse our citizens, and in particular we must not allow us to confuse legal entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we talk in reform, there's no foreign investment, there's no increase in production, no increase in exports, no improvement in social standards without quality judicial work. It's clear to everyone. Today it is really clear to people who do not have to be in any way related to the functioning of the judiciary. I think this is really the end second to agree on this. I propose today that we conclude that you and propose that a working group be formed which will include members of the Parliamentary Assembly and which will start working at the latest from 1 September, regardless of what will expire this term. Someone else will come instead of us who will propose solutions, probably legal, technical and operational, which will include finance to address the issue of court congestion. The second question that is to question all these questions is that we in this country are witnessing the functioning of several judicial, not systems, but a measure of evaluation. So the difference in the standards that apply. The other day we had the opportunity to listen only to diversity in the regulations that apply to war crimes issues at this time, which is absolutely the most serious issue that a person can commit at all, which is from the point of view of both Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially something that will be subject to the work of our courts for a long time, but we have a situation that we allegedly have three or four standards on the territory of a country. It's just incredible and inadmissible. Of course you can't handle it. It seems that we are in a situation that we too in the Parliamentary Assembly can not do so at this time, solve it. But you must be the bearer of the initiative. You must be active, you must come here to expose us to the problem and insist on co-operation. I'm convinced that all my colleagues here, here in this House and the House of Representatives, are ready and aware of this issue, but admit they expect an initiative from you. That's why I'm going back to the beginning, and I think what we heard today should have been heard a long time ago. Maybe six months ago, maybe a year. Probably your answer will be that a series of these things you couldn't say this way until you collected the information until you selected the information until you got the full picture. But here, let's assume that the condition is what it is. It would be very bad if now, after this session today, we came into a situation to discuss this next time in May next year, and that's very relative. In October, however power is formed, there is no way that the Parliamentary Assembly will work fully before February or even March of next year. Can we let the next six months stand in exactly the same state as today and do nothing. For this reason, I conclude, it is my proposal to the House to reach a conclusion, to ask the Supreme Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, on the basis of information that we have received in writing and in oral form, to propose a working body, so directly a working body to be formed by representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't mean names now, but we can tell the chairman of the constitutional-legal committees, possibly some other committees that are there to include a number of people and that indeed this commission is forming, to give her the task. And the task is to propose solutions for the 27 issues that we have discussed today and which mention the report and to give them, if necessary, financial resources, space and, of course, the exact deadline in which we will offer solutions that we will declare. To conclude, the issues you have raised today have the same high value as the largest foreign investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and more than that. Because it helps us to establish a state structure, it helps us to, to set ourselves up as citizens of this country and help us to introduce ourselves as a civilised community, as a civilised society, and at the end of the day, these are the minimums that we have to achieve in order not to enter, but to go towards the European Union. In that sense, I thank you for what we heard today, and I ask you to take this seriously, I am convinced that I share the opinion of all the colleagues present here. We want to help and do our part of the job but you have to carry both ideas and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6268	Thank you, colleague Čengić. Here you go, Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6269	The replica after this one sentence by Mr. Čengić. I'd just apologize, I'm wrong to say your name, so it's not Petrić, it's Perić, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6270	You've apologized well. Do we have any more debates? We don't, and I don't want to provoke, the right to tell you new debaters. So we have this one, we have to vote on the report according to our 95th Rules of Procedure. The House of Representatives adopted this report. I invite you to come forward with the report. You can vote. I find that we unanimously adopted this report. As for the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Čengić, I have a few questions: Whom we task to form this working body, can it be a little more concrete. I suggest that in writing you suggest that conclusion and that at the next session that it can, here we agree. Here you go, all right. And we will return to this agenda point regarding this conclusion. We've adopted the report. Moving to the next point, fourteenth Ad.14. A report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General for 2005. You've received a report on the work, a report from the commission. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. I apologize to my colleague Pajić, of course. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6272	All right, gentlemen chairman, we of course had this on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and we adopted it as it is with the recommendation that this House adopts it. But just a little bit of Mr Filipović's first presentation on the previous agenda. Yes, and I've advocated it, you know that we get materials in languages and letters from the people at one of the previous sessions, I've talked about it. But then I got an explanation, I don't know from who, that the reports go mostly in the language and letter of that people whose boss is, to say the President or the Secretary of the Commission or I don't know what. So it's a similar situation with this report, so here's the Attorney General's Office Report, etc. etc. Just a little bit, about your previous exposure that, so I got an earlier explanation, that it's a rule that the reports go in the languages and letters of those who put it together, who owns it. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6273	Thank you for being brief and vague. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6274	I need an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6276	So I have to say, we're done arguing about this document. And I wouldn't open it. The right of Hrvat, Srbin and Bošnjak is unquestionable, the Constitution has defined them. That's all I stand for. So to implement and comply with the Constitutional Standard. So that's one thing. In the report I mentioned that something which is a selective approach to the consumption of this right, it is not contained. Make sure I don't bother you, on the cover, on the back of this report, it says here that several European Union countries donated the printing of this report so they couldn't donate printing in the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm sorry, it's already something that comes out of the frame of good taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6277	Here to add to that, this is not written in pure Serbian even though it is a Cyrillic letter, but here I am closing [[Common discussion]] So, dear colleagues, let me remind you, we are already at the next item of the agenda. That's what we absorbed, so we have 29 Ad.15. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Defence Office's work
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6281	Therefore, the Commission for Vass and Trade Policy at its 53rd session considered, for the third time, the report received from the competent ministry, or from the Council of Ministers. During the first interview we received very much information, however, there was a need for another number of additional information in the discussion, and then we received a addition to this report, and finally we discussed the entire report and made proposals for conclusions. In short, the Commission assessed that the activities that have been done so far were very important and the Commission assessed that support should be given to all these activities, believing that some should have been done in a shorter period and identified a series of activities as mentioned in the Report to be done in the next period. In this regard, it is therefore proposed to speed up the activities that are under way. What is particularly important and especially important at this hour most important, is that yesterday the presentation of this, the physiability of the study, and thus all the preconditions to move forward are met. The Commission considers it necessary to continue the procedure and speed it up and in this regard has given certain conclusions, which we all have, which we have all, in which we are suggesting a bit faster dynamic than the one provided for in the report from the competent ministry. This would be the shortest and the Commission believes that the House should give its support to these conclusions, which would then be addressed to the Ministry and to the Council of Ministers for further implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6282	All right, there's more debaters. There isn't. 30 Who is for the adoption of this Report with the conclusions of the Commission. I'm opening a vote. You have to repeat which one you pressed earlier, which one you are faster, fast on the trigger, it's good. I find that we have adopted this conclusion report. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's A.16. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House for the period from 01.01.-30.06.2006 You got the report. President of the Commission, do you have a need, no need, does anyone else come to the debate? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. There have been conditions that we can vote, that we can plead on this report. I'm opening a vote. We unanimously adopted this report, congratulations to the Commission. We're going to the 17th agenda, that's Ad.17. Security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6285	Thank you very much. Of course, since it is rare for the minister to arrive and it would be a shame to miss the occasion, so to trouble certain things from this report. In fact, I support the views indicated in the report from our commission, the Joint Defence and Security Commission, in terms of the conclusions they have proposed. Of course, when it comes to the methodological approach of making this information, I'm not going to waste a lot of time and, of course, in that descriptive sense, I won't, I won't stick around accepting that what's indicated here in terms of statistics and other data is what it is, a reflection of reality. Personally, I think that with regard to this document or material, that information would be good, however, to draw attention, that, of course, anyone who reads this can experience it in their own way and depending on how much information it has, may question certain elements. 31 This, of course, is not an excellent goal to me, but in my discussion, I will present one, one opinion that will not be, of course systematically enough, but I will make a public number of views in the following sense. So there are certain formulations that, either more or require a certain completion or projecting in the future of certain activities and here, I will say that one sentence on page 35 reads as follows: “The funds for a sustainable return are missing, or are not being spent transparently”. So, this is a very clear argument behind which some activity should now be followed, which we, through the proposal of measures and activities in this regard, propose, so this last fourteenth proposal, which you have presented on the last 36th page, should in some way find this formulation of its place, in terms of the requirement to ensure the transparency of spending, i.e. the functioning of institutions which, by nature of things, are invited to process it and those entities, individuals and so on. which are holders of non-transparent spending of these funds. Furthermore, when it comes to the proposal for measures, so I refer, first of all, to what you have called a summary here and in that pump, and I am trying to link it to the proposal for measures, is that it seems very correct and I appreciate your insistence on ending this document in that sense, you complete this document. Al, it seems to me that you have remained at the level of general approach to the proposed measures. So when you say, let's say, in a different way, you try to reform the police force, I think it would be good to say this one, this one and more in that sense, to which you address responsibility in this sense, especially given the fact that this activity is not going by our intended dynamics. We witnessed yesterday that we had delayed certain things for two months. Otherwise we have one, one activity within the directorate that worries her and gives no reason for optimism because members of a nation are practically observers in that body and really needs to, this one in a certain way to see what can be done. I see that it has resorted to the choice of the team's chief in a way that, practically, whoever agreed to it and not any representative from the Serb people's order has been elected. We heard yesterday a clear view of the director of the Republika Srpska Police who said about - people was a proposal to make constitutional changes, and there it cared that the defence and security were the appropriateness of the state, where to now ask that we do what the Constitution of Republika Srpska says is an ingenuity. Because the political agreement, which we signed on the next line of less resistance last year, and in order to convince ourselves and others of the commitment to go into these reforms, is clearly not enough because of the fact that here we can safely project the near future and, in fact, believe that this will be done. So, in general, I think that, in the pre-accession of the measure, we should sort of address it and, of course, in this respect, I would like to take advantage of the occasion here and tell the Minister of Security that I really thought that you would use this information in a way that, through the proposed measures, you would suggest something that proved to be an effective way of getting what is called green light for further progress in the negotiations with, above all, the European Union, and if you want to do so with NATO, and I mean here on the over-the-counter or action, as they all call them, the plans made by the Republic of Croatia first and managed to convince Mrs Del Ponte that it would agree that Croatia, and before the arrest of General Gotovina, signed the agreement, i.e. to move rapidly towards European integration. Now we see that Serbia is doing this, and I think it would be good if, here's the occasion to take advantage of this and to formulate in this sense the requirement of the relevant structure, so it has to be some coordinating body at the state level, logic tells us who should be involved in this, but it would really be this, in my opinion, good to take advantage of this and that we, too, bearing in mind the positive experience of our neighbouring countries, in this, in this sense. 32 In the end we have nothing to lose but we can at least make our conscience more clear, that we go with one such document to Mrs. Del Ponte and try to convince her that the most wanted war criminals, the suspects, because they are not convicted, or are not there and if they are not, this to the extent that our relevant entities are, above all, thinking about the OS, but also about other structures that they get and which by nature things, not only have information, but also have the opportunity to, by controlling and operating on the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina reliably, therefore guarantee or in a certain way to say, convince these structures that are necessary. As is known, we are dependent on the Partnership for Peace, and this, therefore, depends on our co-operation, full co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague and its prosecution, depends on us, therefore, and everything that our representatives are on today, according to all reports, they are doing it technically successfully. But if we don't prepare the ground in this sense it's quite clear that by the end of the year we won't have signed this agreement, and according to all our plans, that's what's going to happen. I want to take this opportunity and I'm going to end it, so not just bringing up the question of information, but, just like this, by giving some kind of vision of certain sequences of elements in this information, I want to make one specific point. Supporting our Commission's request, which refers to where we seem to have perhaps the least success in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is identifying, preventing, first preventing, then identifying, and then processing the bearer of so-called. Robbery. It's not just about banks, insurance companies, but also about the wider spectrum. Unfortunately, we have very, very weak results here and I will personally state one position that is contrary to the identities that we have accepted under certain influences, and I will state that, while this business of escorting these shipments has been done by the Muppets, the Federal MuP, I don't know the Republika Srpska MUP, I would like, here is the minister, I don't remember, I don't remember that any robbery has been successfully committed in this regard. So, the moment we're passing the law and we don't have it at the state level, which is going to say that one of the things we need to do is the Security Agency Act, and we're equating this one in terms of standards, criteria, etc. And that is, the component of our Commission's report, but the moment the security agencies took over, it also started with robberies that usually end in a way that is not revealed, except for some, some of these individual cases, but those of 2,000 euros we've had recently, most of which we don't have an epilogue in court. This raises a lot of questions, I'll stop here. I have that opinion. I suppose it's about the systematic approach of organised crime applicants that in this way shows that we are not able, in the right sense, to answer that what represents evil and what is certainly a component of general security in our society, in our country and in this respect, so personally I think it's about the systematic approach of criminals and, of course, the functioning of police and other entities as they do, how they work. We heard yesterday the position of Mayor Mostar, who made it very clear that for certain events intelligence at higher levels, he even mentioned the state and the Federation, they bear responsibility for the fact that they did not recognise in good time and based on the information they had or should have, warned certain negative events which, with political 33 motives, are projected and run them – the pipelines, however you will, from certain current or, or some, to say, more lasting interests of different, political and other groups. So, I will not, of course, question just the report, but here's my ambition was to say in this, a little unsystematic way, a way of saying a few elements that I think, if in the right way we could translate into at least these measures, and in particular, I personally think that we should tell us about each of these measures and then when it happens we see who did make progress, who didn't, because surely in this way, this one is quite clear that you put an accent on the SIP, and I could ask you if it means that with the DGS implementation of the Internal Design Regulation is okay, whether it's the 500 and something that's missing, whether it's filled or not, etc. So here you can ask a series of questions, I'm sorry I was a little wider, as usual, than I wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6286	I thank my colleague Limov. The next speaker is Osman Brka, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6287	I thank you and welcome you, Mr. Chairman, and welcome my colleagues. And I am particularly pleased to welcome Mr. Čolak and to commend that there is one rare person from the ministry who is always present when he is on the Council of Ministers when he is, when the problem of his ministry is there. I really appreciate it. If God and the other ministers were at that level here, I think they would, in order to have better coordination and better business. I can't help but comment on some things here. I probably won't, not likely, but certainly as professionally as my predecessor used to say in that area, but I have some things to underline that I simply, for the sake of the public to draw attention to them. Not just for the ministry, but for the public. And that's the next thing. Speaking of terrorism and arms trafficking, public change in Bosnia and Herzegovina is often under the impression that Bosnia and Herzegovina is as the potential of international terrorism. This report clearly shows that it is not true. And there's a statement here that says: it also trusted people who in any way connected to terrorist acts around the world. The results of these checks were negative – in brackets. In this connection, it should be noted that there were no findings suggesting that some people, currently resident in BiH, participated in the implementation of terrorist acts in the world. I mean, this is a very important thing to go public with. I'm not saying there's no terrorist stuff in us, now there goes the jeep, now there goes the jeep, understands you or something, but it's not international terrorism. I get the impression that it's more of a reckoning here of certain clans of various kinds, and so on. and so on. I think it is, that message should go out of this Parliament because it is, because that is the report here. I trust him that's how it is. The other thing I want to say is that it's the eternal topic that worries me terribly, just to find it - the unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs. I here must, again, underline and read some things for the public, because of the media, - says: In 2005, 1,595 crimes were recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unauthorized 34 productions and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, and the possession and provision of intoxicating drugs, which is 13.52% higher than in 2004. Further in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 363 crimes of unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs were recorded in 2005, which is 29.6 more than in 2004. 377 people were reported to be 28.1% more than in the previous year, of which 6 minors, 140 returnees and so on. Furthermore, there were 12 deaths in 2005 in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By 3 in the area of Herzegovačko-Neretva canton, Zeničko-Dobojski canton, and 2 in the area of Central-Bosnian and Herceg-Bosnian Canton, Sarajevo and so on. In 2005, 199 criminal acts of unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs were recorded in Republika Srpska, and possession and provision of intoxicating drugs, which is 55% more than in 2004. And these are so worrying data and so worrying procedures that really we as a society completely, we have to imagine how far, as far as. I think that there must be much, much more effective measures in all segments of society that this, I don't think we're going to be able to put an end to it, but to at least ease it, to reduce it. In the end, I'll say how I think it can be done. And one more thing I want to comment on. It's traffic, and there's just a little something I want to draw. Traffic security says: 35,236 car accidents were recorded in 2005, which is 3.3% less than in 2004, which is good, but remains in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year, which averages more than one person per day. Now, as many of the dead are still very much, this disabled with a high percentage of disability and less disability, I'm not counting it now. I think we also have to do a lot, much more than we've done so far to reduce it. And finally the conclusions. There are 14 of them here. I hope they are, and they're all good quality, and I'm very glad these first two are in first place. The first conclusion is: greater coordination is needed and the joint work of all agencies to implement laws on the repression of organised crime and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina is needed, and under two: Continue the reform of police forces in BiH. I hope the election comes quickly and that after the election, the state of police will go quickly. I know that until the election, we all know why it can't go. But I hope precisely because it is put here in second place that it is indeed a priority, although I am sorry that it is only in 13th place, and I do not think it is so much less important that this conclusion, but there is an accident in 13th place, perhaps it should be on the first or third, fourth – to improve co-operation with The Hague tribunal - in the sense that the procedure is accelerated by requests for assistance, etc. etc. So this one should be a little bit, maybe it should be worse. And in the end, what I think we could do and in these segments, which I'm talking about, the situation improves. I think prevention is never enough and I don't think education is enough, it's never enough. And in this respect, not only the Ministry of Security, but the complete society, it must make additional efforts to prevent and educate in those two parts. Especially here I appeal to the media, all kinds of media not to list them, because of the press, the electronic media. They really do when a thing happens when, when in Bihaq or, or in Zenica or Mostar or Sarajevo a young man dies because of being overdosed, everyone writes about it, everyone writes, it goes 35 in public, it is written. Very little is written about what to do to make it happen. There's no education in that view, just no education. Everyone's just looking for a sensation. There's been a car accident somewhere, five people die. Five people should be killed to say it's a black spot instead of acting preventively not to make it happen. I think a lot, I'm absolutely convinced, can do it by preventing these things from shrinking. I know we can't turn them away, but we can minimize them, so we can hitchhike them. This society must find strength for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6288	I'd like to thank my colleague, Brk. Is there any more debaters? Here we have Minister Čolak. He'll try to answer some of these questions. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6289	I'll try very briefly. Honored President, esteemed envoys, delegates in the House of Peoples, it is hard to believe to make this one information and avoid all those, primarily political connotations, at the same time to present the situation to the real and suggest a set of measures and activities, especially if we go to that, that they be operational. Of course it's possible to do that, but I'm saying it's hard. I really believe that what you've just said and said, both, so Mr. Limov and Mr. Brka, is extremely significant. Believe me, I use stenograms every time. So, all that is said in these homes, that you would not only wait for the following information to be better, but that, in the meantime, we would indeed take certain activities to improve the situation. I, too, with my associates, are really, every day, trying to say, doing some concrete things, but of course, you will admit under the law, by law, therefore regulated jurisdiction. I can't do what I'm not responsible for. You also believe in the framework of this reform of police, police structures, which is one of the most important issues, I would say, which is happening now in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am trying in these contacts and with officials from Brussels and here with, above all, I would say to these political factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, trying to make this question as fast as possible, aware of the facts in which this time is. And you're aware of the fact that this is pre-election time. I'm hoping that after the election, we'll still be going at a faster pace. Because the police reform really needs Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is well known to all of us without it, we are told, for sure there is no signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is also very clear that this co-operation with The Hague tribunal must be at one, indeed high level, that we must, that we must make such cooperation such that there is no moment to question this co-operation with The Hag. Well, in that sense, here's to saying that we also have what Mr. Limov was talking about. I will still be able to promise you with certainty, therefore not only these conclusions, using the conclusions that you have agreed together, that is, the Joint Commission, the Joint Commission of both Houses of Parliament, but also what you and the MPs in the House of Representatives are saying, so here is my promise that I will only try 36 in the coming period, not waiting for that six-month meal, which because we are making both six-month information and annual information. Therefore, as far as this is concerned, how much it is possible for this ministry and the Council of Ministers, to seek to repair the situation from day to day. Believe that what we have done in the past two years at the Ministry of Security and I think, therefore, in the Council of Ministers, this by this problem, has a very high score of, above all, by the European Commissioner in charge of this area, the area of internal affairs and the judiciary of Mr Fratini. I hope that this will be in a certain way, regardless of our problems and certain delays that we have, that our activities will be in a certain way, this stimulated through the relief of our citizens' visa regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6290	I thank Minister Čolak. I close, close the debate on this agenda point and open a vote on the Report, on the Information... we don't even have to vote. That we have a proposal for the commission's conclusions, and now we'll get to the bottom of it. So I'm opening a vote on a proposal for the committee's conclusions, please. The conclusions of this unanimous were adopted. We're going to the eighteenth item of the agenda, Add.18. Annual Platform on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security and Intelligence Policy You have received the text of the Annual Platform and the Joint Commission Report. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Security-Intelligence Policy Platform. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6292	Thank you very much. This time, of course, I will be in the position of the rapporteur at the conclusion of our Joint Commission, expecting that, of course, my colleague Boško Šiljegović will give support to these conclusions that you have received. You have seen that they are motivated, first of all, by the fact that we have the same text of the Annual Platform that we had last year and in that sense there is no need for us, as a home, to declare ourselves to adopt the same document, rather than to draw up such a conclusion that the content of last year's Platform will be the basis for the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency for this year and, in accordance with that Platform, the Intelligence and Security Agency is obliged to develop appropriate programmes and plans of its work. The second Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency is obliged to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly by 31 October 2006 the text of the 2007 Security and Intelligence Police Platform. Why the Commission has opted for such a formalised conclusion. For a simple reason 37 which, if you in the middle of the year, of course Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country at least in the democratic part of the world that does it now. Each country at the beginning of the year when, when it discusses the budget, it sets priorities in the fields of idymia, and this document is motivated and has a legal foothold, primarily in the drive to establish priorities. I am last year and today I could repeat, I have here, of course, my discussion of last year and I won't bother you with it, this one warned that it's a document that has to be recognizable for every year. This year we could have just said, here's the fight against organised crime, you and this phenomenal form that my colleague Brka was talking about, if the prices of drugs, and yes, one of the priorities, we could have said is, for that we need such and such teams, it costs so much, we ask Parliament to grant us through the budget the appropriate funds, this for that activity. We could've put that, that this year's primary task is to locate war criminals or convince them they're not here and that's quite enough and it's called Priorities. Everything else has already been entered into the law and there is no need to repeat it every year. I call on my colleagues to accept the Joint Commission's report and in this regard I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6293	Okay. I thank my colleague Limov. I hope so, I know the concentration is a little low for certain colleagues, and I hope you've been following what my colleague Limov suggested. Are there any more debaters on this agenda point? So we have a little dilemma here. So we got, we got a platform that should be made known, and we have a proposal from our Joint Commission committee that explicitly suggests that we also propose to our home to reach a conclusion that the content of last year's platform will be the basis for the work of the Intelligence Security Agency for this year. Under the table platform, the BiH Security Agency is obliged to develop appropriate programmes and plans. And below 2. The BiH presidency is required by 31 October of this year to submit to the BiH Palramentary Assembly the text of the 2007 Security Intelligence Policy Platform. So, if we're going to respect our commission's proposal, then we're going to get to the bottom of her proposal. I therefore propose that we make a statement on the Commission's proposal. Is there any difference of opinion on the word? So if we adopt a commission proposal, we won't even adopt this platform. Is there a discussion yet? I am opening a vote, therefore, on the Commission's conclusions. You can vote. - The Commission's conclusions were adopted unanimously. 38 We're going to 19. agenda point, that's Ad.19. Proposed documents on concession policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Council of Ministers proposes You have received a proposal for a document as well as a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives adopted a policy document on the award of concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. Mr. Hasan Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6295	Mr. Chairman, from this point forward to the 29th point, all the questions and documents discussed by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. Report for each individual question you've received. The articles are written in the reports and we suggest that you, or all at once or one at a time, without further discussion, unless any of your colleagues or present have any questions. The Commission considered all this and agreed on and this document with certain suggestions. After accepting the House of Representatives, we suggested that we adopt it in a completely identical text as it was accepted in the House of Representatives. We had certain suggestions that we proposed to be treated as complements later, and all other topics to point 29. are various agreements, bilateral etc. Which we believe should be ratified and suggested to the high home that they ratify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6296	So this is how I do this point in 19th has something different character than these. Furthermore, I propose that, if there are no debaters reported, we should make a special statement about it, so that is - the proposal for a policy document on the award of concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No debates have been reported. I call on you, then, to plead at this point in the agenda. I'm opening a vote. Point 19. We unanimously adopted this item on the agenda. So now we have a proposal from the President of the Commission to point 20, including point 29. - I read the names of those items in the agenda, so I wouldn't read them again, that suddenly, we'd get to the bottom of them. Do you agree with this kind of work? So, of 20, including 29. The opinion of the Kolegijuma is that in the agenda at the beginning we read the explicit names of all points of the agenda and that we do not need to read them again. 39 So from point 20, including the 20th point at point 29, including point 29. I'm opening a vote. Here you go. I find that we unanimously gave agreement, agreement to ratify the proposed documents. So we're going to the 30th point of the agenda, we've done this for the first time now, but in four years, but I don't think we've made a mistake that, unanimously, we've given consent, so we haven't made a mistake. The 30th item of the agenda is A.30. Appointment of a member of the Office to discuss complaints from the field of public procurement, transport and strategic business management Perhaps this is an opportunity to make an ad hoc group according to this agenda point, and to propose some conclusion in terms of the delegate issue and the discussion of counterpart Stojanović, the chairman of the committee in charge. So to take urgent measures at the finance ministry to defuse this situation, because by choosing this member today, they cannot continue to function. They don't have the right number of people to make decisions. So, we've got a proposal, let's first suggest we make a statement about this member. We've received a proposal from a member of the office to discuss the complaint submitted by the Council of Ministers. The House of Representatives accepted this proposed candidate. Is there anything to add? There isn't. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6298	The quorum is four.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6299	They can't do anything. ________(?) The first one is on the ranking list of those already elected is from the order of the Croatian people that passed and we thought it was how we satisfied it. Let's go as a commission, like Dom suggest it. So we're voting for this candidate proposed. Open vote for the third member. The vote is open, please. I understand that we have unanimously chosen Mr. Krsman, Rank Krsman as a member of the office to consider complaints. 40 I, my proposal as a delegate now therefore that from each club one member after, we will take a short break after this point 31 to try to draw one conclusion and refer it to the Council of Ministers in terms of unblocking this situation. Here I propose our club proposes to Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, who is also a member of this commission, so I would also ask Ante to propose to someone and to the gentlemen of the Bosniak Club. Mr. Čengić, Stojanović and here's Jukić is a member of the Commission. So, members of this ad hoc commission that will get, however they can but want to take part in the debate on this agenda point. So we're gonna give you a ten minute break. So we have a proposal from Mrs. ruža, Mr. Čengić and Mr. Jukić to go after the ending. Yes, it is, and then they'll form a conclusion and then we'll vote on that appeal and we'll vote on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6301	So 10 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6302	Not now. Let's go, Mustafa, let's finish this, and we'll do it. Sit down. Come on, sit down for another five minutes. So we voted this Krsman, we're going to propose this conclusion, this ad hoc commission of ours. We move on, and we will return to this point again, so on the 31st point of the agenda, it is the immand of 4 members of the Governing Board of the Public Radio Television Service of BiH and the duration of their mandates. On the basis of Article 26. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly Law on Public Radio Service appoints members, pardons, board of directors from the ranking list of candidates who have entered a narrow election provided by the BiH Regulatory Agency. At the 82nd session, he appointed members of the BiH Public Radio Television Service Management Board, Marija Putica of the Croatian People's Order, to the term of office of 4 years, Nikola Deretić of the Serb people for a term of 3 years, nada Milošević of the rest of the two-year term and Plamenko Čustović of the Bosniak people's order for a term of 1 year. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. So they're according to this memo that we got first-ranked on this list. I suggest we get to the bottom of this. I'm opening a vote. Who's in? Wait a minute. We vote for first-ranked, this is Marija Putica for a term of four years, Nikola Deretić on, what, you want individually? 41 [[Common discussion]] Okay. So we choose in the package, if that's what we can say when it comes to people. So, we will vote now, we will make clear who is in favour of Ms. Marija Putica of the Croatian people being elected for a term of four years, Nikola Deretić of the Serb people's three-year term, Nada Milošević of the rest of the two-year term, and Plamenko Čustović of the Bosniak people for a term of 1 year. I'm opening a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6304	I answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6305	I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Here you go. I'm canceling this vote opening.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, we got two candidates from the Regulatory Agency. The adoption of predstavnički House of Representatives is not binding. Therefore, if we agree, it is not a problem for us to vote in the package, but the Serbian delegates' club has come into a confusion, and as a result, it is not a controversial candidate, Mr Čengić, you will want me, it is not a controversial candidate from the order of the Serb dardode, it is not a controversial candidate from the Croatian people, it is not a controversial candidate from the Bosniak people. We've come in a mix-up with representatives from the ranks of the others. Namely, the Regulatory Agency has proposed Milošević nada, which has declared to belong to a group of others. We have her biography that her name is Nada Milošević, born Ademović. It's not that controversial either. It is disputed that the lady in question has documents of Ademović Nadir. I'm not going in at all. It's about our two different people. And for these reasons, in order not to challenge it today, we suggest that from the category of others we accept the next candidate, which is Despotović Majda who has orderly documentation. Namely, she pleads as Slovenka, fulfilling all conditions. We do not dispute either the candidate of bošnjački, hrvatski or srpski, but this confusion has led us to the situation that we cannot vote for a candidate named Milošević Nada on one document, and according to others, Ademović Nadir. Here, that was controversial and that's the only reason why we're asking to vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6307	Mr. Čengić. Here you go. The break is always the way out. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6308	So, according to what I've had a chance to see, there really is documentation here related to clearly one person who appears under different names. You can almost say they have three types of names for that person. However, when the documentation is examined, however, the fact is that the lady clearly aware of these problems has written a home number on her documents and on her biography. Since she was born in the area of the former state that had neat birth numbers, police matters experts and others can help me identify it, so make sure it's really one person or two persons, what it was, how it was. There is also the fact that in some documents the last name of that person appears, and in another married name, so it further complicates the case. I think personally if we had the next situation, we had the position of the promoter, we had the adopted position of the House of Representatives, and I don't think it would be good for us to do anything different than those who have worked so far. On the other hand, I don't think it would be a good idea to stop the voting and appointment procedure at this time because there is a law, the law is challenged by the competent institutions in the Constitutional Court, it is disputed, but until the Constitutional Court's decision it is only valid and we have an obligation to offer it. In that sense, I think we only have about two options. One is to vote in the package as has been proposed and voted so far, and the other is to consider the possibility of making a statement about the candidate for others and leaving for today and asking for further information and further clarifications from the promoter. And when we get those clarifications from the promoter, then let's make a statement only about that candidate of the others. It seems to me that this could be some kind of solution that we wouldn't be doing damages, that we wouldn't prejudge the accuracy or inaccuracy of the data of a person who still received trust and went through a certain procedure, and so that we wouldn't still remain in dilemmas and delusions about true identity, maybe this could be the solution for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6309	I thank my colleague, Čengić. Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6310	My fellow delegates, I can give you another explanation. I know this lady well. She was born in Bijeljina. I've known her since I was a kid. The truth is it's about the same person. It has no dispute, because this person Ademović Nadir, born, in the meantime, married a Srbin, changed her name and, of course, her last name and changed her name to Milošević Hope. Two years ago, I thought so somewhere, maybe a year and a half divorced. Now if that's the one, now you have to check it out. I doubt why she kept it still, it seems impossible for me to keep the name Milošević, because it is absolutely the fact that they are divorced. But she kept her ID and I.D. on the name Milošević Nadir. I just want to, Milošević Nada. So it's about the same person. 43 But there is one more thing by the rules, i.e. Regulatory agencies, in a statement that all candidates should deliver that each candidate should declare his nationality. All the candidates proposed have come forward. The first Bošnjak, Srbin, Slovenac, Mađar, Albanac, Rom doesn't matter. The lady has not declared herself to be a national member. Who's the others? That's what she can say to the others, who the rest of them are. Either tomorrow she can say "Srpkinja" alone, depending on what anyone offers her, or I'm a Bošnjakinja. So she's still not clean with the situation. You're on the side. ________(?) [[inaudible, speaking from place]] Well, I'm not going to reconsider. So the others and who are left, you still have to know. Whether others, such as this other lady has declared herself Slovenka, others or Rom, or Mađar, and does not matter, falls under category others. So he has to, he needs to make a statement about national belongings, not to leave us in a dilemma. Well, she didn't say anything. Absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6312	Maybe it was Eskimo, so it was hard to tell her.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6313	Mr. Ante Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6314	Well, ladies and gentlemen, when we were establishing this agenda, we certainly didn't have this discussion, this knowledge of what Mr. President of the Serbian Club of Delegates and others were discussing, and I suggest that we leave this for the next session, this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6315	We now have a few suggestions that I can recapture here. We have a proposal from Mr. Šiljegović to go individually, which is immediately disputed in the replica, because a package has arrived from one of the promoters. We have a proposal from Mr. Čengić to vote on this proposed package as his first proposal. The second proposal is to vote on three of those for which no one has had any objections, and that this fourth candidate in the order of the rest, not to make a statement about him, but to ask for clarification from the promoter. And this proposal by Mr Ante Spajić to practically put this thing off. Well, I don't know, maybe it's best, we left this for the end of a lot of these things, so we have that conclusion about the appeal, we have, what else, about 44 is, with the kancelarija of Appeals and now here in this break we try to find a solution, so for this, we do. Here, what do you suggest? So 15 minutes, here's the College, and we'll all try it together. Come on, here's a commission sign.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6316	We have a motion solution and alternatives you have, one, two, three alternatives, you agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6317	If we can agree now at this hour not to vote today, to leave for the next session, then let's leave. But to really ask that the conclusion rather than the vote be to ask the promoter to give further clarifications on identity and national, or membership, to national membership.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6318	I'm wondering, here's the accent here, are we gonna do something about this? Let's take a break like this for 15 minutes, and we'll be back. ....the material that we have prepared to call a conclusion and therefore this is the conclusion that the appeal for the crisis in the Middle East is being made that causes civilian casualties and severe destruction. [[PAUZA]] We agreed on the text, so you all have the text in front of you, except down there is, if this is adopted, instead of signatures.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6319	To go back to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6320	An example of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6321	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6322	Okay. I think we can all accept that. Here's the secretary understands, we all agree, we don't change anything politically. So we invite you to come forward with this conclusion. This is the conclusion we're going to make otherwise, a little question is being asked who we're going to refer it to. We'll refer him to the Council of Ministers. Yes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Brk. Mr. brkati. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6323	Can I have a quick word? To all, and this under all, that it may inevitably be members of the UN Security Council, because they can support, others cannot.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6324	All right, I urge you to make a statement on the proposal, this conclusion is signed by the House of Peoples, if we adopt, of course. I invite you to vote. Open vote. So I realize that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. On the occasion of the 13th point therefore – The report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2005, So this ad hoc group is proposing the next conclusion on the agenda point, so the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with forming a working group within 30 days to analyse the highlighted problems in the 2005 report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and to propose measures to resolve them. I'm opening a vote. I find that we have unanimously adopted this conclusion. And now back to the 31st point of the agenda, I forgot to say just now because of the stenogram, so this is the 32nd point of the agenda – the conclusion of the appeal. We're going back to the 31st point of the agenda, that's Ad.31. Appointment of four members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Radio Television Board, setting out the duration of their mandates Who's going to come up with a harmonised proposal? No, no, it's not that. Mr. Čengić, please suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6326	So, at this point, we think that the most complete solution is to postpone the House's statement on this issue, but to draw a conclusion that we ask the Proposer to provide additional information on the identity of the person we discussed, so from the list of others and its national statement. Once we have that conclusion, that information from the promoter, the House will declare the entire list. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6327	I thank you for this proposal. Can we accept this, that's as far as I know in this pause they've agreed to this proposal, so no one's answering for the discussion. I am voting on the proposal that he was presented by his colleague, Čengić. You're welcome to vote now. I realize we adopted this unanimously, too. So let's return the motionor to further clarifications and expect the secretary of the commission, Mrs. čaplinski, to make an orderly proposal for conclusions regarding the Office of Appeals on Public Procurement. I suggest that you ____________(?) ...27.7. we have maintained, and all the consequences of the failure of the Office for Appeals and what it can lead to, in that case, to ask the Council of Ministers to propose a candidate within seven days, the next candidate from the list that from the Croatian people's order that, which meets all conditions for temporary functioning, fill in the Office for Appeals, and that in the meantime, normal filling is going. Yeah, yeah. To show up for a regular competition. The essence of that conclusion is there. Here's what I suggest is that we make it clear, and that text will look at it, and Mrs. Ruža, Mr. Jukić and Mr. Čengić will look at it when he comes and so we can come forward now. ________(?) [[speaks from place doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6331	...after this which was the second point, which meets the requirements.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6332	Yeah, yeah, great.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6333	Which was the second point, which meets the requirements.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6334	It can't be without meeting the conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-27-0.u6335	I'm closing this session. I don't want to say the exact date here, but here I'm going to say that the likely date is the next session of September 7th, and September 4th should be held by the commission. But leave the right to the College to, to change that and to. So you'll be notified in good time about it. Thank you. I wish you a pleasant summer vacation and I hope to see you in the same meeting in the fall and that we will be successful in that session that is before us. Thank you. The session was finished at 17.50.
