ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6134	Dear guests and representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 59th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 11 delegates present at today's session, of which 3 delegates from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Delegates Osman Brka, Hasan Čengić, Velimir Jukić and Boško Šiljegović justified the absence. For the 59th session of the National Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the following agenda, 1st. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 58th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act, first reading, 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Treaty with the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, 5. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, 6. Giving consent to the ratification of the 1992 European Convention on Cinema Production, 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank of the Railway II project, I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. Anyone want to discuss it? Any changes, any additions? Thank you. I find that in accordance with Article 46. We consider the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples the agenda adopted. First item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions The answer to the delegate's question was received by Mr Tomislav Limov. Mr. Limov, come in. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6136	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have now, a few minutes ago, just looked at the answer to three of my envoy questions that referred to exactly the number of questions asked over the past period. I want to thank the Professional Service who prepared the answer to this question because it was practically in the last session. I did not, of course, have the ability to verify the accuracy of the given data but from what is stated it is quite evident that from 110 envoy questions, to 65 is answered, to 45 is never answered even though some of these questions were asked two years and over. It is indikativan that only 13 answers, that representatives or delegates have declared themselves satisfied, which means that for all the other answers they have received, the statement was a different character. It is also very indicative that from 94 questions, for example, the Council of Ministers to 53, there was no answer as well as that some institutions had only one or two questions, did not answer such as the Constitutional Court, the Court of BiH, the Government of Republika Srpska, the Agency for Labour and Employment, but therefore it is not Parliamentary BiH, it is not the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, the Communications Regulatory Agency, etc. In any case, I appreciate that the relationship with the House of Peoples, and I suppose that the House of Representatives, in particular, is a similar situation, should be warned, that is, in relation to this problem, I would call it a problem, a more serious approach should be taken. Anyway, I'm happy with the answer and I'm not happy with the content, and that's what I've been commenting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6137	I thank my colleague Limov. Any new delegate questions? Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6138	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, dear guests, I would first refer to this question by Mr Lim. I've just looked at these results. I asked at least one question that wasn't included here and I didn't get an answer when it came to budgets, budgeting, and it didn't even get on this list. I also know we've asked a few questions outside the club and I don't see it in front of the Serbian People's Club, I don't see it in this table. I only see one question in front of the Croatian club that there is. So I'm not sure of the accuracy of this data. But I will now look back at the application of the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads to BiH. You know well that the law was passed for the first time at BiH level on 31.12.2005, that it regulates, enters into force 8 days after publication, means 8 January and applies 6 months after publication. This means very soon, and I am therefore interested, given that this law regulates a lot of traffic security issues in a very different way and sanctions are much greater than what they have been so far. 3 I am interested in what the competent authorities of the institution are doing to create conditions for the application of the new Transport Safety Act on the Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I primarily mean the adoption of sublegal acts, training and meeting those who will directly apply the law on the ground and the alignment of horizontal and vertical signalling on the roads with the law. As an example, I cited here, in accordance with Article 45. The traffic safety law on the roads is said to be the minimum speed on the master's road of 60 km per hour, for example. On the route of Foča – Sarajevo, which I pass almost every day, about 75 km is currently 40 km per hour, at as many as 18 places. So, on average, every four miles mostly placed in inadequate places and mostly serve as foreigners who come and go that way because people like me know exactly where those locations are. I think it creates a very ugly picture of us, especially now that there's a tourist season. I don't know how we're going to introduce ourselves to the world with this kind of application and this kind of behavior, so I'm interested in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6139	I thank my colleague Stojanović. Here we will consider these remarks that you have referred to answer to this question by Mr. Lim, although I have already received this one here, something that may be the answer, which is that some of the questions of the clubs are listed under the names of the club president, but we will check all the allegations and we will give an answer, of course. I give my word again to Mr. Limov who has a new question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6140	Of course, as I said earlier, I said 53 answers, 53 answers came from the Council of Ministers and 41 did not come, so in this respect thank you to my colleague Stojanović, who in a certain way specified what I said and said, that I didn't have enough time to check it out, but in any case I will, by today's set of questions, round this issue in terms of one analytical approach and the possibility of getting inputs and how, by the end of these mandates, each of us can see what the effects of certain elements of our activity are. So today I'm going to ask a few questions to the College again and the Research Centre and, of course, we can include our professional service so that through the answers to these questions really this one, we're going to get something that's personal to me and I guess other colleagues are going to help us recapitulate our activity. The first question, how long in the current term of office and what conclusions has been adopted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to which it has set tasks for the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions? Secondly, how and in what way have the conclusions of the House of People been realized, and how many and what conclusions have not been realised or were not at all the subject of the debate at Council of Ministers' meetings? Third, how many and what obligations are set out in specific laws in various documents adopted by the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, did the Council of Ministers fail or fail to implement within the deadlines set? 4 Fourthly, how many and what conclusions of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina have the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions not realised since the beginning of 2003, and the fifth question, how many common conclusions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples have not been realised in the current term of the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-06-20-0.u6141	I thank my colleague Limov. Any more delegate questions? I'm guessing it doesn't. We move to the second item of the agenda, which is, Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 58th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word at this point? Niko. We're going in this old voting way again, so through these charts, I'm asking you who's for the adoption of the minutes? I find it unanimous that we have adopted this record. We move to the next, or third point of the agenda, which is A.3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading)
