ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22037	I am opening the 74th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present guests and MPs, I also welcome representatives of the public information funds. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests, representatives of international organisations, have been invited to follow the work of this house and everyone present, I warmly welcome. According to the Service report, I find that the session is attended by a sufficient number of MPs, so we have a quorum for full and full decision-making. The justification for not attending this session was carried out by Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, the others were not justifying and we expect their presence during this session. Ladies and gentlemen and this time we have amendments to the agenda proposal compared to the ones you received in the invitation to the session. In fact, from the agenda of the Enlarged College, it is agreed to remove the seventh item - Proposal for a Law on the verification of the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings on the grounds that the Finance and Budget Commission has requested an extension of the deadline, as it opened a public hearing on the draft law, in accordance with Article 90. The rules of procedure of this house. The eighth point was also removed, that is -- the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents, Proposer Dušanka Majkić. The code was also downloaded on the 19th point of the draft agenda, it is - Information on the resolution of the conclusion of the House of Representatives, because we did not get written information. We asked the Council of Ministers to provide information on the realization of the findings. As soon as we get the information, we'll put it on the agenda for the session. 2 In addition, I would like to inform you that in our service we are also trying to draw up information on what conclusions have been made, but it is difficult to come to the knowledge that we are not getting a report on what conclusions have been made. You know that most of our conclusions are bound by the Council of Ministers, so we expect to receive a relevant answer, or relevant information from them. As for the addition of the proposed agenda, we agreed this morning at a session of the Extended College of this House to put new agendas into the agenda, which is 1. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the Bill on the Completion of the Excise Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, then 2. The request of MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vink Zorić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure and 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. These points are listed in the agenda as the fourth, fifth and sixth points of the agenda. We also included the 21st and 22nd points - Appointing members of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly delegation instead of Mrs Seada Palavrić and appointing a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. You ladies and gentlemen have received a consolidated draft agenda and before I open a debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have reached a unique position in the College, and we suggest that this be the conclusion of the House of Representatives, without having a broad debate, and he will, therefore, be the next, the College of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina most vigorously condemns the burning of the flags of the friendly countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the writing of graphs of offensive content, which is seen on the streets of Sarajevo, and does not dispute the freedom of citizens to show their disagreement with public protests in accordance with the civilization norms and standards. Do you agree with this conclusion? Prepare to make a statement about this conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please insert all the cards. Did you all put in the cards? Yes, it is. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 28 votes to, against 1, the abstention of no one adopted this conclusion on the proposal of the College in an extended composition and thus moved on to the debate on the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Who's answering for a word? __________(?) not understood discussion 3 So you wanted to vote yes. It means unanimous. Here. Correction, unanimous. There's no need to repeat it, but look into the future. You need to be focused, especially when you vote. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22039	I would like to say, in front of the SDP, that we support these changes and additions to the agenda, but I would like to say that one remark on formulating the first item of the agenda. It says here that we will discuss the report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence Agency for the period from 1.6. to 31.12.2004 and that the material is top secret. I remind you that this is the fourth or fifth time we've had to discuss this, so because of the non-preference, it's delayed. In short, our proposal was to hold a debate on this item of the agenda, provided that the designation of "classified material" was removed and the debate was made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22040	I thank my colleague Križanović. I'd just like to have a discussion on the agenda. When we adopt the agenda and get to that point, then of course we'll have that kind of debate. I'm thanking you. Here today we have the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers who came just about this item on the agenda, so when we adopt the agenda, then we can also open up the questions in which we will conduct a debate on this point. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić answered for his words. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22041	...debated on the agenda. If you cannot remove the "confidentiality" sign from the material, I don't think it makes any sense to discuss this agenda point at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22042	Now I get it. Okay. Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I also support removing these points from the agenda, as you stated, but I think it makes sense certainly what Mr. Križanović said and I also insist on it. I think it's perfectly normal for us to have a democratic debate to take down the secret, a code of secrecy that the promoter has the right to do. Only he can take it off means it's a secret, because it's simply a two-year-old material and it's written by Free Bosnia more than they've written here, and I don't see any reason why someone's saying right now – on the agenda that they agree with us to take down the secrecy and to keep this point normally open and in front of the means of information. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22044	Thank you. But I beg you, therefore, not to perform mystification. So we're adopting the agenda. The position of the College and the attitude of the House is to remove the designation "strictly pov", because there is not something that can be to that extent confidential that the public cannot know, but we cannot. So we can suggest. The attitude is to take it off, or not. And when we adopt the agenda, the proponent follows this debate, he will see and, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will be shown that we are proposing or not proposing. But so to discuss the agenda, so it's very important that no one asks that the agenda be removed. In which way we will conduct the debate, that is when we adopt the agenda. Who's next to the word? Here you go. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22045	Since they say we've known each other long enough and we've been in this House long enough to know how they can proceed in the first eye how you can throw out half the bus to take off. So, I'd like you to make it clear to us as chairman and you as a colleague. We are ready to vote on such a agenda, but here in the agenda writes the cartoon “po. material’. According to our Rules of Procedure, if we adopt the agenda in which we adopt that it is classified material, don't tell us when we get to that point of the agenda, we've adopted that it's classified material. So, if we adopt the agenda now, so this "pov. material" we'll discuss on the first item of the agenda whether or not it is, then there's no problem voting right now. But don't tell us you voted for classified material whatever you want now. So we don't have anything against this kind of agenda, which we're pretty happy with with. We just have some extras I'd like to talk about later when we see what's going on with this, but I'd like to ask you, Mr. Špirić, if you could just give us a heads-up on the agenda, this line of "pov. material". If we were to adopt that in the agenda, then we would be manifested in a different way. And if by that point of the agenda we're going to determine if there's classified material, then we can talk about this when we get to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22046	Okay. Thank you. So what we got as “pop. material’ we passed on how we got. We therefore expect the proposal to be made, and when the debate is concluded, the motionor will say, and then, of course, we will democratically declare ourselves. I can't tell you except for my personal and the position of the College is that we are in favour of removing the code “p.” but we can't make that decision. Who's next to the word? He's a friend of the Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22047	The chairman, my colleagues, I was in the past, in the last session asking to be the item of the agenda related to Neum, Corridor Vc and Luka next to Neum. And that's when you promised it would be on today's agenda. I don't see why you didn't put that on. That's one thing. 5 And secondly, I will propose that this Parliament asks the Parliament of Europe to give an opinion on Croatia's behaviour towards Bosnia and Herzegovina with preparations to build a bridge at Neum. I'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22048	Thank you. I will try to give you an answer to the first question, and this is your right as an MP to launch different kinds of initiatives. We have received a reply from the Council of Ministers and the position of the College is that this response related to Corridor Vc and its exit coordinates is forwarded to the competent commission to take its stand and that we can conduct a quality debate. And that's why we are, because it's not today's agenda, because we don't have a commission position. As much as I have information from our service. Anyway, I have to tell you that we have been very active in treating your request, sent a letter to the Council of Ministers, received a reply from the Council of Ministers, forwarded to the competent commission. We're waiting for the committee's position so we can have a quality discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22049	The neighbouring state is preparing for the construction of the bridge, without the consent of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we postpone and give to the commission. We act like it's a winter dream, like we're bears. They're working, they're trying to shut us down, and we're calmly giving it from the commission to the commission. That's irresponsible from both the Council of Ministers and us. And that's why I'm protesting and demanding that this agenda be today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22050	I beg you, you can look for a agenda point if you're prepared, if you're willing to explain it. I don't mind you suggesting it as a part of the agenda. Parliament will declare that. I'm only telling you what the possibility was and what we did as a College according to your request, that was your question. Dr. Crescent. Kunić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22051	Thank you, Chairman. I would also suggest adding to the agenda, that SIPA submit information related to the Abazović family tragedy. In fact, there is a variety of information in the public, and according to the lawyers, the matter is more than worrying. There was a shooting, an open attack on a family. At least according to the lawyer's statement. Whether there have been formal and legal procedural errors in the bodies that led these activities, please inform us of this SIPA and suggest the agenda point related to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22052	You're proposing for today's session of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22053	At the next session, the SIPA will inform us of all the details of the event. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22054	At the next session. Okay. I'm grateful to you. I meant it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22055	To provide us with information.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22056	Information. So, I agree. I thought you were looking today, so I'm afraid this is a good proposal. Okay, okay. I agree. Okay. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. Lagudmija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22057	So it's not about this spy information, it's about something else. Mr. Chairman, I apologize, I thought, no, but I see, next to you that he was sitting. Yeah. Mr. Chairman, we have several meetings before, I don't know how to count the sessions, given these joint sessions, before several sessions just like this when we were establishing the agenda, I asked that, that the Council of Ministers provide us with information about the events surrounding the allocation of a third generation mobile phone license, i.e. in public, professionally known as a license to work on two gigahertz. The immediate cause was a public conflict between the Regulatory Agency and the ministry's jurisdiction, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And then we concluded just like this, just so we wouldn't burden Parliament's session at that time with unprepared information, and then we had very important things, as we do today, that we have very important things. At that time, the predstavnički of Representatives concluded, I agreed, in due course, not to discuss this at the session, but to have the Council of Ministers prepare us with information on the problems and activities related to the third generation of mobile telephony licenses and all the activity plans related to it. The House concluded that at the next session, it would be this information, to prepare for us the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we didn't get that until today, and the problem that was two months ago, I'm afraid it's going, to escalate further, judging by what those who know the opportunities in that area know, and shouldn't be a big knower, is seen in the media. And therefore my question is Mr. Chairman, I expected today that it might be, all waiting for them to deliver it to us. So I'd like to ask, if we can strengthen that conclusion one more time. I find it completely pointless today to ask a representative of the Council of Ministers or a competent minister to improvise us, but I would really ask you, so I don't want to put it on the agenda today, although I would have a lot of right to conclude that, because we have concluded that we are going to do so. If we can reactivate this conclusion and make a commitment, we simply oblige the Council of Ministers to act on this conclusion by giving us information at the next session on the activities of the third generation mobile phone license. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22058	Thank you, Dr. President. You're a Lagumdžija. I couldn't agree more. If we'd gotten the information, we'd have forwarded it as a point, because that was the conclusion. Unfortunately, we didn't get that information. It looks like from the fifth time, like this one, we're going to do something, but it's about the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament and our relationship with the Council of Ministers. That's not yesterday. I, the College itself, can't change that attitude. Here I agree that this conclusion is strengthened and that you did not say that we will again write the emergency to the Council of Ministers and I expect that it will be responsible for Parliament's request, as I expect the answer and the position of the SIP at the request of the MPs. Petar Kunić to send us information on this case. But I need to inform you that we have not received an answer in writing from the Council of Ministers or from the Resort Ministry. Dr. Crescent. Gilgorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22059	Thank you, Chairman. As a matter of fact, I will support the agenda as an MP, but the previous question has been referred to by the chairman of the Council of Ministers who is now seen by the system, now you don't see it, now it's gone again, and since they are proposing, they have the right to place a code of secrecy on some documents and it is not disputed. But the problem is how we're going to move on now and where he is now just to tell us what he's up to. Whether to withdraw that secrecy from this report and where the minister is at the same time. There is also no one who has to submit the introductory information, that is, the chairman of the Council, because he is directly responsible and is in his direct jurisdiction, and then the minister in charge. In this case, we don't have any of those two men, and now that you've spoken to the Council of Ministers to parlametan, here's an obvious example, the man has listened to us, asked him to come out and say what he thinks about this issue and simply disappears from this Parliament. We need to clear this up first. Whether we're going to take breaks or not, but we need to bring him here for a pay phone to tell us what's expected of him, and if he doesn't, I'm going to be on behalf of the club looking for a break for 15 minutes if I don't see the chairman here to answer these questions. We need to learn a little about the Minister of Security, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22060	I'm asking you to conduct a discussion on the agenda. Wait a minute, I'm asking you to conduct a discussion on the agenda. We will not plead without, therefore, because you want to, without the Council of Ministers' position, because "severely posit" or not. The security minister has no authority when it comes to the OSA, as has the OSCE director and the chairman of the Council of Ministers by law. So they're not the same powers. But here's to having a debate on the agenda, and before we make a statement, of course, we're going to give us an opportunity to make sure that he stays on the "stretched" mark or not so we can make a statement. Who's next to the word? Ljilja Milićević. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment, we are in the previous agenda that we received by mail - Inframation on the realization of the conclusion of the House of Representatives, that we God had one conclusion. As far as I know, we've had more conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22062	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22063	No, I read to you, it says here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22064	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22065	In this. So it's more conclusions. If one of us hadn't slowed her down, we'd be waiting. I'm looking at things from the point of view of our relationship to the Council of Ministers, that is, the fact that I was found to be off the agenda this morning, the announced information about the realization, as you say the conclusions. Whether or not, the simplest thing is for Mr. Chairman and the College to take it off, because we didn't get anything. To remove this remains a vacuum, because these are the conclusions this parliament can work on. So the fact is, we didn't even get the information. Maybe something was done, maybe it wasn't. The easiest thing to do is wipe it with a rubber and we'll say it next time you know, if we get it by then. If we don't get it next time, we'll have the information again that we didn't get the information. I suggest that, given that most of the conclusions apply, we have different conclusions regarding different segments, different ministries, that generally means this direction, is this one, one meaning, one conclusion of our or the request of the Council of Ministers to look under...that we have this for the next session of the House, that we get in time not to wait for us on the benches, because we will again have a problem that we couldn't prepare and read what was done in those conclusions. So that's actually for the next time that's the first point of the agenda, if we don't have that information, and that's an opportunity to run this debate here and say what's done, what isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22066	I thank Mrs. Milićević. I'll just let you know. Requests we run parallel activities. We asked the Council of Ministers to deliver that information. We haven't got it yet, but we've hired our service to run an analysis of the conclusions made. It is a obiman material, relating to 3 years in this Council of Ministers' term, and I assume that one of the materials will have until the next session and conduct a discussion based on written material. You're right. If there is no information we will, based on our own information which is part of Parliament's service, conduct that debate. Who's next to the word? 9 Dr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22067	Dear guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I apologize to the chairman and the College for why I react afterwards outside the Expansive College, but I was forced simply by the Club of Mixed Members and the Party of Pensioners to ask today, if it is in any way possible for the Council of Ministers to contact and simply get to know each other if it is not familiar with the events around the Regulatory Agency for Communications. In fact, the media is really these days, it was simply the first news in SIPA media to review the business of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. It is a procedure that is common and legal, but simply has a lot of controversy about the SIP's intrusion into the Communications Regulatory Agency and the case is politicized. We have appointed this advice and we are simply responsible for the functioning of the Regulatory Agency, so it would be necessary to really clarify today simply remove these fogs and political curtains from this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22068	Thank you. I would only ask that we, as Parliament, remain at the height of the task. The SIPA does its job and doesn't get in, I guess. So there will be another SIPA institution as an institution of the line in one, which is why we must have implemented reforms to ensure that everyone is subject to control. If there's nothing, no one should get excited about it. But I agree that on the basis of the written material, Parliament should be given the answer we asked for. If the Council of Ministers is ready today to give it in writing, I don't mind, but we simply don't fall into the trap of not giving grades in the services we expect great results from. Who's next to the word? Here you go, Ademe.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22069	...what colleagues have already said about the conclusions. Mr. Chairman, I personally have here a record in the course written down, there are three conclusions that I have also suggested at my insistence at the 70th session to make a review of the conclusions that have been made. That was 70th. I don't know what the date was. So on my proposal to make a review of the conclusions that are not realized, that's what Dom accepted. Today is the 74th session, I don't believe that during this period this part couldn't be done. I mean, if we're not able to do that, then I don't know what we are. In addition, on 16 January I sent you a letter asking you to put these conclusions on the agenda with 63, 70 and 71 sessions of the House when again, I say 74, and again this one is gone. I don't think there's anything else to conclude, but I'd suggest we do a review, just at least what's concluded, let's see. If we don't know what's being analyzed, what's not, let's keep it written so that we know that we have on one piece of paper what we've concluded, to remind ourselves. But no, I don't think there's any reason for the Council of Ministers not to go out with information regarding the construction of the Peljesac Bridge, what Mladen was talking about. I had one parliamentary question addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. The Council of Ministers has delivered 10 answers, the Bureau is intelligently hearing. But at the 71st session, this house accepted this initiative to include this item of the agenda for the next one. So it's 72. There's no reason not to be 75. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22070	I'm thanking you. I can simply say that for the next session we will make sure that the services prepare the order of conclusions as we have sent them, and we will see whether or not they are done. Are we going to get that answer from the Council of Ministers, but here we have a conviction in the service that it's a job, that there are few people, that they need more time and people are working to get information. I believe there's nothing else we can do. But I understand your concern and, of course, the remarks you've made. Dr. Crescent. Kunić wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22071	I have recently suggested that the public transfer of the House of Representatives' sessions be carried out. This House of Representatives made a decision to say so unanimously, I think one vote was against. Two three questions I have referred to the College why this is not done, why is the conclusion of this House not carried out? No Niko gave me an answer. There is the President of the Council of Ministers, whether he has some authority to give his authority, probably no legal ingenuity, but to act a little, or College, take some measures. Do you consider us so insecure, or should I not say one ugly word whether you underestimate this House? We started that TV. Parliament's decision is to set up a TV Service BH1. And after half a year to ask the question again, so at least give us an answer. We've been ordered by someone that we can't transfer the sessions of this House. Say it. Don't be afraid. We'll accept that fact. But take appropriate measures. Why did you take those chairs if you cannot execute Parliament's decisions? Why did you take that? I think it's very, very one, one such gesture and these chairmans very ugly and everyone who doesn't do it. There's really a question. I mean, we're non-serious people. ..the Parliament's decision to wait eight months for it not to be carried out. And we're talking about the rule of law, we're talking about European integration with this kind of mentality and behavior. Well, please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22072	Thank you. But here's the answer. We're not irresponsible, we're not irresponsible, and we're taking ourselves seriously against all the conclusions. I must say that the College sent a letter to the Public TV Service and that they were twice and that we received a reply from the editor-in-chief asking for a joint meeting with the Kolegijum, to see how this conclusion can be realized. So we're doing everything to realize the conclusion of this House of Representatives, and these other issues are democratically natural and I don't need to explain it, but I really need to inform you that we have honestly approached the realization of this conclusion and that you will get a very quick answer in which way we will realize this conclusion. We'll have a meeting with the editor's college and you'll be informed. Who's next?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22073	When will we be informed? Next year. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22074	In the next session, maybe the next person who passes the election. Maybe whoever passes the election will be welcomed, and whoever doesn't pass, we'll send him home in writing. Who's still answering for the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate. Before a statement, I would ask the Council of Ministers to be chaired, since the MPs asked for a statement relating to the first item of the agenda, so that they could have their position positive, or negative in the agenda, does the first item of the agenda remain the "pov." or not? I'd ask you to help us in that sense, if you think it's necessary. _______(?) That's what we're going to forward to the conclusion there's no need to match the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22076	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can say my answer, here I join your demands. But I'm not the one who put the code of secrecy, and I can't, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, take off that code of secrecy. Or, if I may, I can only attend a Council of Ministers session, and nowhere does it say that the chairman stamps there confidential or untrustworthy. So I don't know why we're making such a big deal about this report right now, whether it's secret or not, when you're all saying that it contains nothing that represents a secret. In principle, reports of intelligence authorities everywhere in the world are secrets of nature. On the aside that this is our first and for the first year mainly an operational report on what was done at the merger and implementation of the law on the merger of two intelligence services into one, so there is no operational information that would be classified. But I'm sure every report anywhere in the world of intelligence is purely a secret nature. In the end, the report passed a joint commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly homes dealing with the problem and passed before the time. They didn't ask for secrecy. Even some of you MPs from this home have been sitting on that committee and have not asked for secrecy to be removed. So I'm begging you, let's finally have our agenda and, yes, whether it's secrecy or not we're discussing it. When you're all saying there's nothing in there that'll be debatable. Then why are we making such a big deal out of this? It is not the chairman of the Council of Ministers who strikes the seal whether it is secrecy or not. Which means you can't chair him or take him down.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22077	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. I'd like to ask you to just bring the debate to an end. We got the answer. Enough to make a statement. How he who declares himself is his right. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22078	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is normal communication. We're asking the chairman something. He came out about saying that he himself couldn't, but must do it along with the Council of Ministers, as a collective body, bodies. All right. I respect that. But then I suggest, before saying that this point 1 - Report on the activities of the BiH Security Intelligence Agency for the period since 2004, because two years have passed, that we put the last point. That we don't move the free fans to follow other important things. Or, to conclude that we are voting previously on the conclusion that this report is returned to the Council of Ministers in order to respect what Mr. Chairman was talking about, so they may have had the opportunity to take down the mark of secrecy. I suggest two ways so we can move on, or we can go as the last item of the agenda, not to disturb everything we've set up, because the media is our conscience in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why now to demonize people to go down the halls to walk. I think it would be correct to put it as a last resort, or return this to the Council of Ministers to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22079	I beg you, we have concluded a debate on the agenda. You received an answer to plead as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22080	Now, if you'll excuse me. Now you've come to what Mr. Lagumdžija was saying, on the first corner of half the bus, here we are now getting kicked out, not half the bus, is 1/3. Now we get that story. As a prophet, man said what would happen. You, Mr. Chairman, are talking about exactly that. How can you believe in Parliament that no one will cheat on you, and everything looks fair. It's all procedural. E isn't procedural.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22081	Okay, that's not it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22082	What bothers us now is that we simply plead that the point is the last.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22083	Well, Parliament will be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22084	Let the press go, and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22085	Please, for the sake of seriousness, I just want to say something, I owe it to you as chairman, a member of the committee. For the sake of seriousness to the service and to the reform that we have led and as state deputies, we have led the debate and received an answer from the chairman. As will be and the debate is closed. As anyone will treat it, that's another thing. 13 So you asked for a statement so that you could vote. Will you vote yes or no, it's another thing. The debate on the agenda is over. And I beg you, I will, so I share democratic standards just like you, but we need to get out of this for the sake of the service. So you might think that a walk, seven times we're putting this on, we're postponing 2004 what kind of message we're sending out by outsmarting whether or not the press is coming out, as too much concern for the media. It's like a drink of coffee, and you're gonna lose your stomach. I'm sorry. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. So we'll make a statement about the agenda point however it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22086	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry that the President of the Council of Ministers reacted this way because for him, it's no surprise what we asked for. This is what we've been looking for every time we talked. I'm not saying I talked to the Prime Minister myself, let's let go of what we talked about in person. I'm here at the pay phone asking for this to be obvious to the Council of Ministers whether this is classified material or not. So it's clear to the Council of Ministers that the last kid who has the nerve to follow this up that the Council of Ministers isn't going to do this. And there's no problem. And gentlemen, it's not about what this report says, because this report doesn't say anything. It doesn't say anything here, and that's the problem. There's nothing in it. The problem is that this report has nothing to do with Parliament's conclusions on the coup that has forced the Agency to form itself in line with these conclusions, and that is not what stands here. There's no such thing. And it can't be a secret that it wasn't even the Council of Ministers that was obvious about it. It can't be a secret. If they're keeping it a secret who was their sponsor for the coup, then that high representative who was their patron, which you don't say now, is gone. It doesn't say here, Mr. Chairman, what has happened to me, I have the right to say that you won't be able to forbid me, it doesn't say here, Mr. Chairman, what about the extensive reports of the intelligence agency, is any of this being prosecuted in court? So I just want to tell you what it doesn't say. And you, no problem at all, let only when you adopt this agenda, take a minute's break to get us out, and then explain to each other what it doesn't say here, without us and without the public. There's no problem. So, to end the suffering, not the people, I understand what they won't, they're scared, and maybe shame. So finely put to the vote, confidentially, apologize to each other, explain what doesn't say here. It'll take us a while to get back to work. This will come on the agenda when, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22087	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm asking you to understand that we have to work business. I understand one thing, I understand the other. Stand by. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22088	Look, I really don't see why it's so longing to get around this. Exactly what the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija was talking about, this is in the 2005 report, this is not the 14th report for 2004. All these reports you're talking about will be in the 2005 report. In 2004, it ended in April when the agency was established, since the sixth month. This is a few months of reporting period, and there are no reports because they were not carried out at the time. They were in the process at the time, and they finally got ready in 2005 and you'll have it for 2005. So you don't have to look for conspiracies here or stuff under the carpet. They don't stick anything under the carpet, but this is a fake. That's what you'll get in your 2005 report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22089	Thank you. Here's the curved quote, then Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22090	Just correcting the wrong quote. This is the report, to remind you from 1.6 to 31.12.2004. Great! So that's what we realized, it's no secret that this period applies to. On 15.3.2004, this parliament adopted conclusions on "the coup", 15.3.2004. In 22.3., the Service Law was adopted, and he began his work in the year 1.6. It had an obligation from 1.6 to 31.12.200 to comply with that law and to comply with Parliament's conclusions that were 2.5 months old at that time. She wasn't acting like it. And it's not... without the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22091	Thank you. A kolegica of Milićević, then Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22092	I thank Mr. Chairman, I actually want to ask my SDP colleague not to leave. You see, 1 means that we could know what it says, what it doesn't say, and what it's supposed to say, you need to be. It means we open up the discussion. We can't talk about why he's good or why he's still good. So we can access the agenda point. And as far as I know, our commission has been reviewing the report together, so we have their report. And Mr. Lagumdžija, the result of the discussion that will be closed to the public may be the conclusions of this home and the relationship to the report that will be public. Because our conclusions don't have to and shouldn't have a code of secrecy. And so I ask you to think about staying and we'll discuss it together and maybe we'll make some new common conclusions, point out the shortcomings, and we'll do it in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22093	Just to say, the public works, the chairman of the SDP's joint SDP on OSCE labour control. So what can I do when that's the case? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22094	Mr. Chairman, for your information, the president suggested something like this, but it wasn't adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22095	So what can we do? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, then Berz Belkić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22096	The chairman, we have now received from Mr. President Terzić the actual answer to this report when it is said, when I said in the introduction that it is two years old and that it is actually not worth it, it does not write anything important there, but the label of secrecy needs to create some mystic that you are working as some really real state in which you are dealing with exactly such security intelligence. It's not gonna happen. The spies are full in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All of them broke out in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you in the newspapers had some cuts, indications, suspicions and nonsense. Therefore, I also do not want to be at this point in the agenda, and if we were a normal, normal Parliament and if it were normal, to say so by the government, the Council of Ministers, you would also have to answer us according to the conclusions of the Investigation Commission and this Parliament, because it is in the reporting period which included this report. You were obliged to do it, but that's not the case and that it was time late as you Mr. Chairman explained it to us, and that, let's take it that way, you're making a special report about such an affair in which citizens, politicians, journalists are listening in on this country and secretly following from the secret police. Well, you'd have to be in a normal country if we were to make a special covert report. Then I'd respect that, and this, about these things you copied from the papers, you have huge money, you have equipment, you have cars, and you're doing nothing. And some journalist in Free Bosnia with a 25-year-old golf car and with 50 marks in his pocket finds what you're not able to do as an institution. What am I supposed to say here? That gives you legitimacy for something you haven't done. I'm not going to be present at that part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22097	Please, give it around the agenda, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22098	It's all on the agenda. See how you from the congregation majority, stick to the agenda. Let's pack it up like nothing happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22099	Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, please, there isn't, nobody here cares to pack, do I.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22100	And one more thing. Business intervention. If I speak as an MP, I stand up and follow the rules that we have here. It also applies to the chairman when he asks for the agenda, not to decompose with me, or any MP, but to go out for a pay phone and stand still and explain. I think we must be equal in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22101	Yes, but the chairman can't be deafer. He's got a session to run. Otherwise, he'd have been told he had to be deafer. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22102	I know. That's where we should go and then run the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22103	You'll have to sit here and see how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22104	And stand still in front of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22105	I'm sorry. Come on, don't, if that's possible. I'm trying to believe it. I respect you all equally, and it's very difficult for me. I'm looking for a solution to get us out of this if possible. Make a contribution. Help. And I know it's easier on the other side and that this side looks different. He's fighting for this after the election. This is where we sit. Mr. Belkić, then Mr. Novaković, then chaired by Adnan Terzić. That's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22106	Well, look, we've lost an hour. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22107	I'm really sorry. Excuse me. Okay. (Laughter) [[Common discussion]] A little seriousness, please, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22109	Well, after this, the public is present, I don't know what was to be hidden from the public. So after these half-hours we've had here, I don't know what it is to hide from the public anymore. So, as far as I'm concerned, we've already lost an hour and frankly I don't understand what we're arguing about anymore. I'm just gonna say two things that make me think this is a groundless debate. A debate has already been held on all aspects that could be public, or hidden from the public. So the public already knows what this is about. That's one thing. The second thing, this information itself and this tag of itss, which says "confidential" etc. and explains that practically, it is subject to return and forbidden multiplication. He doesn't say anything else. I don't know who he is, and on what basis he's interpreted it, I don't see the applicant's request for information to be discussed without the public's presence. So I don't know what to discuss. I don't know who filed the request and who's asking for someone to get out of this room when this is being debated. So only two things exist, multiplication and return. Let's work. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22110	Thank you. A kolega, Novaković, and a Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22111	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, I wanted to ask that we really discuss this end. It seems to me that at some point we're all ears in the debate about the law, and I've gotten the conviction from some discussions that there, or not about the law, but about the report, and I've come to believe that there's nothing in the report and there's nothing we should break up about. Since colleagues declare who will remain, who will not remain in the session, so we of the SDS Club will remain in session, but according to a good method of working intelligence, we will be silent and listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22112	Thank you, colleague Novaković. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22113	Well, I have to react to the most irresponsible, not to say the insolence of MP Gligorić. It's not Terzić and the government wasn't keeping a secret, it's not Terzić and it's not the government that listens and does what it does. All these allegations you speak of, very rudely, Mr. Gligorić, you bring Terzić and his government all these allegations. Go ahead and do whatever you want with them. After all, they're public. This information is about six months of work by the Bosnia and Herzegovina intelligence service after its first six months after its constitution. I have no reason to hide, I don't hide. It's just, unfortunately, we're the ones who sent you this. We didn't order it to be and don't use it in your discussions anymore. We're not the ones who set it to be classified. But that's standard. After all, why don't you take your confidentiality off that document. You vote, or you say you can do whatever you want. Take off your confidentiality and let's get the job done. We've been exhausting ourselves for months. You don't want to argue until I get there. Then I'm not even here to represent this report. And Dom can take off confidentiality. Why can't he? If a man, chairman of the Council of Ministers, can, in your opinion, remove confidentiality and cannot do the House. Well, I don't want to say those things. So, please. It's another thing. I have some appointments. I came here today to report to you correctly on the first item of the agenda. If you want it to be the last one, there's no problem. But I won't be there, because I've taken responsibility. I have meetings that have been arranged. I got the agenda, I saw that at 10 o'clock was the first point - I came. And then again there will be your next discussion, Terzić destroys the dignity of this home and from the session to the session the same story.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22114	A fellow Zorić asked for a word. So Tihomir Gligorić. 18 Please bring the end. I'm begging you, if it's possible to refrain from talking outside the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22115	Since the debate on the agenda has reopened, here I have a quick question for Mr. Terzić. At the beginning of his story, he was told twice by the government the last time he went out for a pay phone. I'm interested in who's ruling? And I have to say in my own name that I don't accept, or I don't support this proposal by Mr. Potočnik, because I would put this in that conclusion along with the burning of the flag. This is unserious, this is trendy, and this is not like the House to put points on the agenda this way. That's for a serious analysis of what's written here, and I'm going to ask my colleagues from the club to reject this proposal as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22116	Gligorić and Potočnik. Replication is both, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22117	And that was, uh, a man called me. And it doesn't matter, he's like, as I said, you see him now, you don't see him. A wizard or a ghost, Kasper. Now he's gone again. Mr. Chairman, and you in the College, you are required to protect this Parliament. If I, as an MP, only told the fact that the Commission had done something, that the predstavnički of Representatives had done it, that they had not respected it in either the Ministry or the Council of Ministers, and there were some lower bodies listed, and he called it rude. And here you are, in fact, me and you, we adopted that, that conclusion. And he actually threw a glove to all of you, not just to me individually, and because of this dignity of this House, we had to fence ourselves from this statement by Mr. Chairman. And what he's saying about standards, what he's saying is that they're doing something in the meantime, you're going to evaluate it, and I really don't want to participate in it because I don't see anything important in that report and we're giving it to him because he says he's here, and four times we're taking it off as a part of the agenda. There's no minister or him. And now he's saying something, and he's telling the opposite of the law. It would be good if what he was saying, he was saying the opposite of the law, and he, like anywhere in a normal country as prime minister, was in charge of this kind of secret business. He wants to play someone named Toni Bler, and at the same time he's supposed to carry the burden of responsibility, he's transferring to this home. You've accepted that, I see, but here I would like us as a House to plead and remove that secrecy. But now consider a good law that has not also brought you into a new problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22118	Thank you. We'll study everything, but I beg you, we spend on adopting the agenda, unfortunately much more than the debate on the essence, the laws, and unfortunately, it says a lot about us. 19 But here is a fellow Potočnik, and let us conclude the debate, that we may move on to what is the essence of today’s session, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22119	To answer Mr. Zorić. I don't expect HDZ to vote for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have a free way out of the sea. That's quite clear to me, because you're also writing in the morning list that HDZ is gone, for HDZ Neuma is not acceptable to that proposal. But I agree with everyone that this Parliament and this state are more seriously dealing with problems that are state-of-the-art. And this isn't even serious. Do not degrade Bosnia and Herzegovina under the cloak of unseriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22120	Here's a colleague of Zorić's rectification quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22121	This way, our club isn't just members of the HDZ, that's the first. And I didn't ask you any questions. I don't know why you were answering at all. I'm just asking Mr. Terzić who's government? Only behind that could you put a questionnaire out of my debate. And the other thing is I'm not a correspondent for the Morning List, I'm not writing anything, and you're here right now from this phone booth saying you're writing, you're writing, you're writing, you're writing, etc. I don't know why you hate the Hrvat and the Republic of Croatia so much. I don't know that. And I can't figure it out at all. So Croatia builds the highway. Let's call her for it. People make bridges, if they make mistakes, we'll sue them. Bridges connect.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22122	Thank you. The streamer again and to conclude please debates and replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22123	Mr. Zorić, I don't hate anyone. And at least I'd hate my father who's a Hrvat like you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22124	I don't care about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22125	Well, I'm interested!
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22126	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, so we have concluded the debate on the agenda. There are no requests for new agenda points. There was no requirement for any part of the agenda to be removed either. 20 I hereby conclude that we have adopted the next agenda. Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period until 31.12.2004 – Rev. material, 2. Journal of the 73rd Session of the House of Representatives, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the Bill on the Completion of the Excise Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vink Zorić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a budget of BiH institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, first reading, 8. Bill on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, first reading, 9. Proposal for a law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Information Society Agency (first reading), 10. Pre-law amending the Freedom of Information Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, MP Nikola Šprić, 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (proposer of MP Muhamed Moranjkić), first reading, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act (Proposer of Parliament Zlatko Lagumdžija), with the Commission's report on Finance and Budget, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act (Proposer Jozo Križanović), with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget, 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency Act, with a report from the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence Agency, 15. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, 16. Report by the Joint Commission on an attempt to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act of BiH, 17. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, 18. Report by the BiH Financial Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2004: (a) the BiH Ministry of Security, (b) the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, (c) the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (d) the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (e) the BiH Ministry of Defence, (f) the BiH Presidency, (g) the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, (h) the BiH Joint Affairs Office, (i) the BiH Court of Justice, (j) the BiH Prosecutor's Office, (f) 19. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2005, 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on Development Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, (b) Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the sailing of waterways and their marking and maintenance, 21. Appointment of members of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation, members of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the OSCE and under 22. Appointment of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. So that's what we've come up with to get to the first point of the agenda. The Potočnik asked to vote on the conclusion. Please conclude - a request from the Council of Ministers to ask the European Commission for its position on how much the Republic of Croatia contributes to co-operation in the region by canceling the signed treaty on the borders that BiH has ratified and below 2. The intention of building a bridge over, which it is watering, over...a bay that BiH is blocking free access to the open sea. That's the conclusion in this. Please, a proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. It's like a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22127	This is the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22128	That's what he wants us to say about the agenda point, whether we're in or out. So as a part of the agenda. Yeah, yeah. Prepare to vote. Who's in? Just a part of the agenda. - In 10, v. 7, abstention 1. There's no entity majority. You're asking to repeat the Potočnik vote. Slowly, please, everything will be repeated 10 times if you will. Just don't get nervous. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 14, 7 against, abstention 9. 14, no entity majority. Therefore, it remains for alignment and you will be notified within the prescribed time limit of the fate of this proposal. 22 So the agenda doesn’t go well, we won’t inform. Let's go, let's move on to the first item of the agenda. Here you go. _________(?) But we accepted that, yours and dr. Lying silently, I mean unanimously. Here. If you want, we can vote, it's not a problem. But it's silent, unanimously accepted. So will we.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22130	But make sure it's unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22131	Here, we realize that we are both proposals and that the College will forward the proposal to the Council of Ministers Dr. Pere Kunić and Dr. The Zlatko of Lagumdžija. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. He's looking for a colleague named Altić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22132	The esteemed president, dear colleagues and colleagues, Sead has asked a question that you said you couldn't, that it should be SIPA that it's her job and that she's doing it. I mean, we disagree, because we've decided in this house before about the various commissions that should have been able to review certain things, what certain bodies do. Therefore, I think you should have put it in order for us, Parliament to plead. If Parliament says it is none of our business – it is not our business and it is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22133	I thank you, we do not answer questions, because it was not a question of what SIPA was doing there, but I reacted that SIPA was not incurring, but was working as a serious institution, and Dr. Lagumdžija and we all asked for a written report from the Council of Ministers on the misunderstanding on the relationship that will concern it. And that's why I begged for understanding. It wasn't mine to answer. So, we've exhausted the agenda debate. Moving to point one, that's it. Well, it's adopted, I read it. Well, there's no voting, because there wasn't. These points that have been suggested have not passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22134	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22135	Please. Well, it's streamed. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22136	It's not streamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22137	As it isn't, he's a doctor now. Kunić and Dr. Lagumdžija asked and I said unanimously it was accepted to go again, because we asked the Council of Ministers to go again to request the Council of Ministers. So no one's against it. It's unanimously accepted. I'm begging you, so I've read it. There are no new items on the agenda, because we voted on proposals requested by MPs. And the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to point one. Here you go. Ad.1. Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period until 31.12.2004 – General material
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22138	We're at the first point, so since we're at the first point, business intervention, my question, Mr. Špirić, did we accept this adoption as a confidential point, or are we reopening this debate now?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22139	We received a reply from the Council of Ministers Chairman that the Council of Ministers did not remove "stretcht pov".
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22140	So now we're at the first point, and you realize we're at the first point, and now this point will be "confidential". Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22141	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22142	Great. I'd like to ask SDP to take a minute off.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22143	Okay. One minute. [[PAUZA]] Please, we've moved on to the agenda. I'm asking you to let me run business. We can't, like Dom, take off the label "pov." We can't take off the label "pp." We can't. How. Go ahead. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22145	Please, please, business intervention. I'd like to ask my colleagues from the SDP just to listen to me a little bit. sobzir Article 10(3) states, point 1 of this article refers to materials that the Council of Ministers and other bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina delivers to the House, which are marked by state, military, official and business secrets as defined by law or other regulations adopted under the law. That someone should tell me what it means and what it says in the law. Does this mean that the media must be here, that this material can be read, that when I get out there I can't tell you what it is? I don't know that law. This is only in the Rules of Procedure, and I need someone who knows the law to tell me what my rights are about the word. Please, we're going out here now, and we don't know what the law says. I don't know who he can punish here by some point of law tomorrow. Let us have someone explain to me what the law means?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22146	Please, you'll have a nice one. And I'm looking for explanations. Hold on a second, please. Goldie, please sit down. So we're at the first point. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22147	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22148	Okay. Theydobiti all get the answer. Here you go. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22149	Mr. Chairman, the same Rules of Procedure of Article 2 says – before they deliver the material to the MPs, the chairman of the House and the chairman of the House will decide on the degree of confidentiality of materials prepared in the House in accordance with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22150	Who are prepared in the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22151	So our commission missed actually pleading for the degree of confidentiality of this material before she delivered it to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22152	I thank Ljiljana. Who's next? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, since we got the classified number, that and that and that's dr. Živković spoke correctly to a member of our 10th Rules of Procedure, and we need to be respected. Now that the Mr. Chairman threw his glove to Parliament and told the secrets down, and I asked as well as Dr. Živković let's see this law, because 25 of this can be, which our people would say is a catch, and come to one problem for us to answer to this parliament. That's why I'm asking the chairman of the committee, the chairman and you, the College, to clear this matter up and ask for a 15-minute break as long as you need it because it turns out you're not reading the laws. I know what it says there, but I don't want to give you my knowledge. Take the gentlemen, now, I don't know, but read them in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22154	Just a minute to sit down. The word was requested by Mr. Džaferović, so Jovanović. Just a little more, please remain patient. It's a session, you'll get a break for 15 minutes. We'll settle everything in democratic procedure. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22155	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that here is after the chess and a half of the debate on the agenda, the time has come for us to finally get to work. I went out for this pay phone to try to help with this issue regarding this intelligence agency report. So, Mr Špirić conveyed the truth and said that according to the position of us from the College there is nothing secret here and that as far as we are concerned, it may be publicly considered here in this House. That's what he was talking about in some way was the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I think a complete home so understands this problem. As far as I know the law, but here's someone else to correct the Criminal Law, so as far as I know, the "secret" mark on some document can take off whoever put that mark and that's what we've already been talking about here. In order not to bring MPs into an awkward position, complete this home, and in an awkward position, and to achieve the goal that we want to achieve, and we want to publicly discuss this, no one is running away from having this debate publicly, so I suggest we do the following, so we have several times already postponed the debate on this subject, that we do not make a simple circus here in the House of Representatives, that we, as a House, recommend to the applicant this information to remove the "secretity" sign and deliver the document without the "secret" sign. If he accepts it then we'll have it from him and then we'll discuss it here at the House about these things. How it will be done in the procedure by the applicant of the proposal, he through the Council of Ministers, is therefore a matter of law and the attitude of these people. We therefore recommend that whoever is legally obliged to do so so that we may be in a position here in Parliament to discuss this document publicly. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22156	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Avdić, and Dr. Gligorić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22157	...possibly overcoming this situation, I don't think the Security Intelligence Agency's surveillance committee has declared itself to the degree of secrecy of this document going to the House. So the College, or the Expansive College, has the right to propose to the House to remove the "secret" mark from this document and it will be Parliament's legal decision and not to go again and go simply to the Intelligence Security Agency. That's one thing. 26 And secondly, a fellow chairman, or Mr. Chairman of the SIPE intervention, is a legal and legitimate act. But if, on the other hand, the same state agency holds the same political motives that led to such an intervention, then at least information from the Council of Ministers should simply be expected, what happens at the time of the relations between the resolution ministry and the Communications Regulatory Agency. At least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22158	Thank you. Kola Belkić replica, then Gligorić, and Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22159	It's not a replica of the proposal. So I just said that the information itself is not actual, etc. And I suggest that we no longer treat this information as something we should consider, but simply ask for information to be made for 2005. Let them also install this from 2004 and get the answers in which the reform is going, is the service depolitized, how is parliamentary surveillance going, how is this, how is it? And in the meantime to decide whether it's confidential, untrustworthy. It's our legal obligation, a year and a half, so this is deplated to talk. There's nothing in it, nothing, unless someone over there is gonna open some other stuff. So, I'm up for her being absolutely inactive. It's absolutely nactual. So, we ask that information be made for 2005 to resolve this previous issue of confidentiality, untrustworthyness, so that we no longer abuse ourselves here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22160	Thank you. The word was requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22161	First, I think Mr Džaferović's and Mr Belkić's proposals are actually talking about how today we should push this aside and not discuss it. So that's how this information's been going on for five or six months. So, nowhere does it say that there must be a chairman here to discuss some institution's information, after all, I wasn't even on yours, on your commission. Look, we've given ourselves up, so the law says that we have a intelligence service that will have parliamentary oversight. We didn't opt to have a intelligence service to oversee the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but to have parliamentary oversight. And the complete procedure has passed. A parliamentary committee overseeing the work of intelligence and which is far more responsible for all that this service is doing, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because it adopted this report, delivered it to you. She didn't take down the level of secrecy, she rated it as very high quality and all that you have in the conclusions of your commission. I know, as far as I know, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you are mostly making statements now on the views of your commission, not on the views of the chairman, or the Minister of Security, etc. We've entered a procedure where now the worst thing that can happen is that we say this no longer exists. If you think it's the height of the House and it's the height of these reports that you get annually and according to the fact that we have a intelligence service that's so conjecture that it has parliamentary supervision to be independent and that there are 27, then you can do it that way. And I don't understand if you are against this report and against the report of the commission tasked with making parliamentary oversight of the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Intelligence Service, then vote against and bring that report down. And I don't think there's really any need for us to hang out anymore, and now we're looking for some new credentials, etc. etc. Let's do it like we're told. You have and constantly for three years we have been in direct communication and I know very well that the position of all MPs in the House of Representatives is that it is the House of Representatives, which is the highest body of the legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it can make a decision as it wishes. And why don't you just take off your cover and finish it? Why is someone coming now, and why should Mr Gligorić suggest that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, together with kolegij, explain to the MPs what it says in the law? Well, I guess that's what the College needs, but it's not the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the College of this House and this home. There are technical services that you need to prepare, your technical services that you have enough. Please, let us submit this report, I must admit that I am reluctant to submit it, and I would prefer that the chairman of the parliamentary committee who is conducting parliamentary supervision did so. But the commission accepted, commended and reached a few conclusions that all speak affirmatively about work. This means accurate and clear – the work report in 6 months. And you know very well, no matter what you want to trouble some things that aren't in this report. You know very well that the exclusive, exclusive task of the people who run the intelligence service and your parliamentary commission was to bring together in 6 months two intelligence services that have been in Bosnia and Herzegovina in one - state. And the report's on it. And by 1.1.2005, 99% of the service's activities were exactly that because the law ordered them to do so. All other intelligence matters that interest you or will be in the 2005 report. So from the moment when, when two intelligence services in Bosnia and Herzegovina were merged into one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22162	I thank the chairman. I'd like to ask my colleague, Branka, to make a brief, little clarification. Maybe it'll help you, Mr. Gligorić, unless, well, here's everybody. I'm asking for help, too. Here's brak. You suggested a break, and we'll give it 15 minutes. We're looking for a solution. Here you go. Here's a word before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22163	Well, it's known by the Rules of Procedure who has the advantage, that's defined. I asked for an earlier word, you can't make the selection, if this equal part is already finished. As my fellow MPs have before you, and I also have the Constitution as our Rules of Procedure, it's normal. By sitting responsible under this law, he should also have in his pocket and the Minister of Security this law, but you don't, that's your problem, and you had to take it when you came to the session. Now ask them, they don't have that law. I want us to be, to respect within, we move within the law. What Mr. Prime Minister was saying was all out of the law of the story was, and I don't want it. Do I want to break the law that we've passed? He knows what Mr. Belkić suggested to him, that's what he njegoš that defends me when he doesn't defend me, and he knows that the report must be submitted by law, so he says the time when, but I won't tell you again. And he can't break, he's right, that's where he got scared of Mr. Terzić, so he moves the ball to the College, he's now unprepared and Džaferović, what the hairs don't suggest a conclusion again to help the chairman, and he didn't realize that this proposal is 28 good for him, because I'm directly, because I was talking about it. Just that he's a little bit reformed by Džaferović, and I've given you my hand, but when you don't know what I'm going to do to you, I can't help you. So, this is above the story law, so please don't move a ball between Parliament and the Prime Minister's Chairman, because when he came out, I said you wanted to play Tonio Bler, though he's an elabourist, but you want something, you won't take responsibility. You have to take responsibility here. It's nice when they come to your cannadoes and tell you who's listening to the CDs, who's sleeping with whose wife, so you drink it with whiskey, that's nice. And when it comes to taking responsibility in Parliament, to say this whether it's by law or not, then the law doesn't interest you. If you do not know what members directly refer to you as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you must submit your accounts under the law in this House. Not the minister, not anyone, but just you personally. What kind of members do you not know? Please don't defend him from the U.S. when he doesn't know how to defend himself. And now, if you knew that you were defending him, you would rise up. That's how you defend him. Don't defend him because you love him, or a party ideology. That's why I'm asking for a break. I want to get that information. I appreciate and respect Branko, but this is the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and the Intelligence Security Agency Act is saying something else entirely. If you have that law, I'll listen to it, and if you don't, I ask you to make sure that this law comes into this assembly and that everything that applies to this agenda point is cleared up. You, Mr. Chairman, speak nicely of the Rules of Procedure: You speak well of how we should respect it. Procedures are everything. Within procedure, we're simply wrong. If that's how I'm looking for the law, I guess we can find the law in this House, I guess we'll find it somewhere and we'll find it nice. I have it in my purse, but knowledge is expensive, my Mr. Bešlagić. It's not easy to give. So please, if you have the law, let us get out of this situation. Can this home take down the secret? As the law says, if he says take off, but he doesn't say, can the chairman take the responsibility he needs under the law. And don't let the majority of us here make a circus. Someone who insists only on legality like Mr. Lagumdžija, me or some other people is being accused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22164	Thank you. I beg you, there will be nothing past the law, past the Rules of Procedure. Don't worry. So that's what I'm taking care of. Sir, we'll just finish the debate and give him 15 minutes' rest. I'm asking you to help us find a solution. First fellow Novaković, then Sipović, then Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22165	I said first we'd keep our mouths shut about the debate. Secondly, listening to these discussions, I'm really worried that we're going to be the opposition. Namely, all the suggestions that we have heard so far have been correct with a clear intention to allow the debate that those who have been again with a clear intention to disable the debate on this law have gone into one, it seems to me possible and only possible solution, and that is the suggestion that we should turn to whoever has the opportunity to take down 29 of this mark, means the one who only has the opportunity to take off this mark to take it down. I don't think that's a bad idea. Of course, we can really, really lead a different discussion than the one we're having. I must say, unfortunately, the chairman of the Council of Ministers also headed for the same method of discussion, so he gave us a lecture like this which we MPs in the Rules of Procedure can, and what we cannot, what we need and what we do not need. It is not, then, that it is not right for you to argue with the President as an apostle, nor for us to argue as the chairman. I beg you, we have a few concrete proposals for the chairman. One of these proposals, in addition to the break, is Mr. Džaferović's proposal, which points to whoever is responsible under the law, and close to that proposal is also Mr. Gligorić – taking off the "secret" sign so that we can really discuss something that is not secret at all and end this debate. And I don't see what it can do to anyone in this house, whether it's an MP or a Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22166	I thank my colleague Novaković. A colleague of Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22167	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I have been trying to address this issue and this item of the agenda that has been discussed for an hour and a half to be pragmatic and constructive. And I suggest you also look at what the distinguished Mr. Chairman-in-Office Džaferović Šefik has also proposed and the chairman of the Council that indeed the House has both responsibility and strength and maturity politically to resolve this, for me is not a question. In Rule 10, please the Rules of Procedure is the solution to this problem. What the chairman said, this high house to take down the "secret" sign, even if you, as chairman, made a statement about some classified materials in paragraph 2, I would ask the Secretary of the dom to read and find a solution in Article 10. Rules of Procedure in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and we're flexiblely interpreting it and getting out of this stalemate position. Indeed, we have very important things ahead of us, the adoption of the budget, the adoption of many important things, and here the public follows and I consider myself responsible for being constructive, efficient in discussions. I didn't want to answer, but I recommend the House and maybe even take a break and find ourselves out of this stalemate position. I don't think the problem is that it's so insecure that we don't go out and find the right solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22168	No unresolved problems. What you are now talking about concerns the materials that Parliament is preparing, we who are preparing can talk about the degree of secrecy. A colleague, Hazim Felić. By the way, we're gonna take a break with the club presidents. You don't have to. Okay. I'm an interpreter, so maybe I made a mistake. Here you go, Hazim Felić. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22169	Thank you, Chairman. I think we've really wasted a lot of time on formal things that are precise and clear. For this reason, I strongly recommend that Mr Gligorić read the law in the break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22170	Thank you. So I'm asking you to take a break for 15 minutes. Club presidents and chairman of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22171	Not enabled, speak now
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22172	So please, I'm running a session, Mr. Gligorić. Club presidents and the chairman of the Council of Ministers to meet me at my office for consultations. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We have tried this break, please, we have tried to use this break to come up with a proposal that is in accordance with the law, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the only thing where we will not make a failure is that the material that we have obtained with the term "confidential" is treated in such a way, because we cannot remove that mark, and there is no mood to remove it. Chairman Terzić wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22173	So, since it's breaking up in the direction it's headed, and since it's being passed on to the chairman and the Council of Ministers whether or not we're hiding it, I have to say, I have to read here a member of 87 who says - information, so all I'm saying now is that I have to read it clearly and accurately - information that the agency keeps and which is marked as "confident" or "secrets" can only be printed with the approval of the Director-General of the Agency. The Director-General may, to the Deputy Director-General, give authority to some in that regard. So, when it comes to Article 11, he says that the chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot, either in whole or in part, assume the responsibility and rights of the Director-General or the Deputy Director-General in this law. So all this talk you've had about the chairman and the Council of Ministers isn't based on the law and it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22174	Thank you. I'm asking you to now, if it's possible, Dr. Poirot. gligorić that we don't open up a replica to just say the conclusion, to say the conclusion that we've come to, if it can help you bring the story to an end. Do you agree? No problem, you'll get the word. 31 So what is the suggestion of us who were with me in the cabinet and asked to get out of this solution. So we have received "confidential" material, Parliament cannot take it down, so whoever put it on the label "confidential", and we do not have that approval and we have to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law and close the meeting for the public and hold a debate on this report and the views of the Commission. It's the only thing we've come up with where we won't make a mistake. Whether it was supposed to be classified or not, we can't make any decisions about it right now. Here's another one. Lagumdžija and Dr. Gligorić and we'll have to. Here you go. So that's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It turned out that what some colleagues were insisting on and self-helping, because Mr. Chairman told us that he had to go back to the Council of Ministers and he couldn't do it as an individual, so he suggested that we do it, that we could take down the degree of secrecy, and I knew under the law that he could do it, and it was useful, if anything turned out that I was criticizing something all the time, it was useful for us to learn something, and I, Mr. Chairman, would ask the Service to take over "integrated" material "confidential" number 01-04-3/05 this year, because according to the Rules of Procedure of the 10th Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to keep a secret, and since there's nothing here for me, but if the Mugupi wanted to mount the process, and I had experience negatively installed the process, that we have done this thing that is as worthless as well as I received the signature, along with the signature, with the signature, the signature of which would bring no matter of any material in which would bring to any material to any of the Ggor. I ask that the Service bring the list that it has been recorded that I returned it neatly, and I will not participate in this debate, although I have information from the Presidency, although I have different information about this case and how I would like to have what to say, but I leave it to one fart who will play and who is going forward, because it is ordered that this report must be accepted in today's direction that this discussion and debate, as the majority of the assembly is covering, will be covered by someone's unwritten, not or present within this Parliament by some rules, which is that the work, because of some of the lower gods within the lower institutions that someone in this Parliament is obeying. I won't be the one. So I'm asking them to take this over with my signature and when I hear Mr. Lagumdžija, because I'm interested in what he's going to say, I'm going to leave this item on the agenda and ask the service to invite me to office 208 where I'm going to be invited to the next item of the agenda, and I'm going to wait for Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22176	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22177	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, why are you... listening. I'm truly sorry, the public doesn't need either SDP or Zlatko Lagumdžija, or any of us who talked about it. The public needs this Parliament and this function that we are talking about today. It is true, Mr. Chairman, that article 87. The law says that the information held by the agency and marked 32 as "confidential secrets" can only be disclosed with the approval of the Director-General of the Agency. It even says that the Director-General can give the deputy authority over certain points. I'm talking, but let's let it go now. The former member of the 86th Mr. Chairman says the Agency's Director-General is responsible for establishing and implementing the efficiency of the system, the classification of information for the Agency based on which it determines exactly what it is and what is not a secret. This way, since this is the first time we make a precedent, the end is over. You're introducing to a small door that everything in the domain of the intelligence service, including the concise information you're obliged to, to remind you, what you're giving us today, is regulated by Article 10th point 5 of the same law that binds you. 'Cause watch out for us, he doesn't file a report from the agencies, not a commission. Article 10 says the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in charge, among other things, and, under point 5, he submits to the Bureau and the Parliamentary Assembly concisely, underlining a concise, brief annual report on the Agency's activities. Allow, short, concise, a law prescribed where Parliament should see roughly in rough lines whether it works with what is its constitutional and legal obligation, whether it works in the interests of this country and whether it works effectively enough, etc. etc. This may not be the subject of the classification referred to in Articles 86 and 87. I also want to draw your attention, unlike Mr. Gligorić, here I have decided that a little bit of my own, this is no spectacular mind. A man takes it and reads the law, especially he needs to read what he's bound to do. Member, the law says that the chairman, Article 9 says – coordinates, you know, you should remind us, you are practically the head of intelligence. Under this law, you are. There's a CEO. It's the first thing that's not good, but it's practically like that. Article 9 says – the chairman co-ordinates the Agency's activities and provides guidelines on security intelligence policy. The 10th member has obliged you to exercise control over the agency, of its work. Member of the 10th as chairman, not the Council of Ministers. He's not even the Secretary of Security. Neither is the presidency. The Bureau is a defined member of the 7th, and this presidency is about as informed as we are of this covert information. The only person who, by law, should be the one who is given the right to repeat and commit, the authority to supervise the work of the Agency, ensure the legality of the work carried out, which includes, and be aware of this, the giving of general guidelines to the Agency for the performance of tasks in which they fall under the partial duty referred to in Articles 5 and 6 which are very clear what the Agency is actually doing. You are also required by Article 4 to bring instructions necessary for the implementation of this law. Watch out, you bring instructions. You bring the Agency's development programme and you bring guidelines for their implementation in coordination with that happiness called the Director General behind which it is now hiding here. Let's not be naive. You're the person who won't take it off before this House. Don't hide behind the Director General. He's become completely irrelevant now. Let's not be kids. It is also now that Špirić accuses Branka of not giving us information. I mean, let's not be naive. So it's about you not doing this. You're also the one who reviews and approves all requests for intelligence assistance. And you're forwarding the approved requests to the Director General. In other words, Mr. Chairman, you will not answer a few very clear questions. And you were in charge of it. It's not even intelligence. Why did you not order the intelligence agency to implement Parliament's conclusions on 15 March 2004 which, among other things, obliged those who gave political guidance to, as you say only mergers and two agencies to make it impossible for people involved in the creation and construction called "state impact" to find themselves in that service. You were obliged to take care of it, if you didn't give the Director General these political guidelines, then the man is not 33 responsible. If it goes on like this, it will come down to the fact that there's nothing to do with your work and that you're not going far away, Mr. Chairman, and you've also been obliged here to tell us what happened to the many reports that have been said here that there was crime, abuse in privatisation, robbery, everything that's written here, and that you haven't told us what, I repeat, what was the men's intimidation, and what was the court's solution as real? And you're responsible, Mr. Chairman. Since you are responsible for this, I fully understand why you do not want to take down the “secret ” mark, good luck to you. As far as I'm concerned, you can take it off now, so good luck to you when it comes to your Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22178	I'm thanking dr. Lagumji. Please, since we've made the decision, you'll get the word right away, I beg you, we have to follow the Rules of Procedure and start this point to get the public shut down. So, I'm sorry, but we have to do poslovnički in order for the public to shut down and do this point and bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22179	Since we're part of the public, we're part of the public, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22180	I don't know who's part of what, let him say it himself, but you'll tell me. It doesn't matter, don't speak for them, for Parliament's sake you must speak completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22181	Well, I speak for the public, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22182	Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22183	Mr. Lagumdžija first passed the law in a good old custom, and then he read one or two members and shared it with his students. So it is not true that the chairman has all these powers, but Mr Lagumdžija voted in that law that we have an executive intelligence authority, where he is sitting both in the chair of his two deputies and in the first two years of the water agency in accordance with these obligations under Article 9 of the Article 10. So political and all the things that the law has pointed out. And it is absolutely not true that, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has any opportunity to remove the "secret" mark from the document, and as I have read Mr Lagumdžija and as I have read it correctly and clearly defines Article 87. The law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22184	I thank the chairman. 34 Ladies and gentlemen continue. So you received the report on the activities of the BiH Security Intelligence Agency for the period 1.6 to 31.12.2004. The report was discussed by the Joint Security Intelligence Commission to monitor the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency. The commission delivered the report on 6 September 2005. You have, you have seen the Commission propose to the House to adopt the following conclusions. I would ask the others, therefore, since this is closed, therefore for the public to let us, to leave the MPs to discuss this item of the agenda alone, to respect the Rules of Procedure until the end. I don't see any reason why I can't and the others can't. Of course, it also applies to OHR representatives. So the Commission is Domu, we have to respect the Rules of Procedure, right, we have to learn. Sometimes it's harder for us, sometimes it's easier, but that's how we have to do it. The Commission therefore delivered the following conclusions. 1. The Commission took note of the report on the activities of the BiH Security Intelligence Agency for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2004, 2. In order to eliminate and carry out untrue information in the means of information, which concerns possible links between groups, organisations and individuals who are holders of international terrorism, it is suggested to the Council of Ministers of BiH, as an executive body and other competent institutions of BiH, to take action to cut off the practice of publishing information that has the character of secrecy and which are not based on true facts and below 3. A report on the activities of the Security Intelligence Agency, as well as other documents submitted under the law to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should monitor the dynamics of the preparation and adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. This is the 2004 report, second term. So I remind you that one, this third conclusion has already been time-deplaced, but this was at that time and the Commission was seriously dealing with this report, and that was therefore the time of the integration of the two services, and the Commission was then putting it to the conclusion that it might be one example in Europe that two, perhaps by war of the opposing services, managed to create a common concept and our task as serious people in the country was to support everything that provides and builds up a secure service that would guarantee all citizens in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the report and on the Commission's conclusions. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Belkić, Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22185	...it's not exactly simple after two and three hours of debate on the procedural aspect of this whole thing, and actually by introducing and entering into the essence of things, something special to say. When it comes to the Club of Representatives of the Party for BiH and our relationship with this information, of course with the accession of all those who wonder if it really makes sense, after a year and a half to debate etc. What's current, what's not current, we'll stick to the next thing. 35 So, what is basic and what we did not get practical answers to in this information, other than that aspect which I fully understand that the first task was to connect two services, remove all anizuities, remove all obstacles in this service integration etc. Nothing less important has been done to build a depolized, rational, efficient, parliamentaryly controlled service in accordance with European standards, etc., which is why we do not see from this information what time this type of activity is and how close we are to that goal, which I believe we have absolutely no dilemmas that we are not in agreement and that we agree on what we want to achieve. When it comes to the Commission's report, the Commission has identified some of the things that are very important, in my opinion, but they are listed in the opening section, not as recommendations, not as conclusions, etc. What do I mean? So, instead of recommending, to hurry up in some way by strengthening this...intelligence work and the need for regulation etc. It's coming to a conclusion. There is no conclusion that it is required to adopt a sublegal act which will regulate it, etc. Furthermore, we are determined to lack the law on parliamentary oversight. It's constant in the report, and there's no such recommendation, or conclusion to say so that this thing gets serious. Furthermore, it is also found in this section, in the opening section, that these sublaws that further elaborate the Data Protection Act are not done, but there are no recommendations either. So, in our opinion, this should also have been highlighted in the form of a recommendation, so to speak or conclude formulate. We can take this information into account, because we believe that it reflects the real state of what was done in those 6 months 2004, but I am saying that these important things are us in the information itself, and even in the report of the Commission are not translated into recommendations into conclusions, but have focused on this thing that enters and the conclusion that the key problem is the elimination of the release into the public of untrue data. I think a man can figure out what they really are, what they're talking about, how they're being carried out, etc. The consequences for me should have been explained not to bring dilemmas. So let me conclude from this suggestion, that is, to strengthen the conclusions, even though the question may now be some of it in the meantime and done, the question now is how current it is. We can say to be aware of this information, but I say because of the delay where we are complicit, so to speak as Parliament in this drawback, and the question is now what is out of this all that I am saying currently, because I simply don't know what happened in 2005, as the rest of you did. So I was just saying for a little while that it might be smarter if we had more current information, and then we could look at it for a year and a half in its total. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22186	I thank my colleague, Belkić. We'll do it very soon, since I'm a member of that commission and I'll get a report for 2005 and you'll see what the size of the activity is, exactly what you're talking about. So it's all made. You have one item on the agenda where last time we returned the amendments and the additions to the law, returned the report, we did not accept. So sensitive and serious things. 36 I want to assure you that really in this segment there is much more attention than people might think. I don't think this is an area of theatre, and that's why, if we were, we could have finished this agenda point a long time ago, but have this report now, and I have to tell you that the Komsisija Control Commission is going to have to file its report here to Parliament, so on the basis of that report, you're going to get answers to all these questions that you've been asking. But here we are today in a position to accept the report and the conclusions of that committee, and when the annual report is detailed, then we can conduct discussions and give suggestions, repairs during which time is ahead. But I must say that we led a very good debate within the commission and made suggestions that were on the trail of what counterpart Belkić was talking about. Dr. Crescent. Živković asked for a word, so Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22187	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have stayed here so that I can even say the reasons why I remain, probably although the press is asking me about it, and as far as all the institutions of new ones here in Bosnia and Herzegovina are being set up, the Agency, the Intelligence Security Agency is a new institution, that now that it is initially setting standards in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it concerns this intelligence security agency, is that their reports, like, everywhere in Europe, are "stretched" and debated by MPs. I think it's standard. If that's not the standard in other countries, then to tell us it's not the standard to do it differently. If we're concerned, if we stick to that standard, then we're going to lose not only this report, but all of the following reports that under such a "strictly positivity" matter we're discussing, because all this time, now these two hours we've lost just to talk about how to respect that standard in the future. So for all the other reports, then we didn't waste our time. Then we made a standard that this agency that, I tell you, is just beginning to work, perhaps a problem for them, and here's a report to know how to behave in the next time, but we will again know that MPs here are going to discuss this material, and not ask each time that agency to take down the label “pov”. etc. I mean, if we've wasted time, then that's a useful time spent for future sessions, or reports from this agency. And what I'm saying is that it's not Bosnia and Herzegovina America, it's not Mr. Lagumdžija Nikson, nor is this the Watergate affair. This is a simple report from our agency that only has six months of work behind it, if I'm talking about this report. And there's nothing in it that we can't discuss here. I'm reporting as a report is not good. I can't vote for him, if we're going to tell that agency a little bit to work better, I'm for this report to come back, which we don't know whether or not it's standard and I'd like to ask you to share that, whether this report is taking place in the next period, or whether the report is being taken into account as a report, or whether it's being adopted. I'm in, more for being taken to the knowledge. And I will vote for the report to be taken into account with the recommendations that this report can be better in the coming period. However, if MPs decide to vote in favour of the report for or against, then we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22188	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Felić and to bring in the debate, if possible. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22189	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, here's to removing the dilemma from the beginning. I think the reports are being adopted, the information is being received. I think it is quite clear and for this reason is the Commission's report, whose member I am and for this reason I want to say a few words as a member of the Commission, and also on behalf of the Club. As a member of the Commission, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Belkić have actually said what the Agency has been doing for 6 months, i.e. transforming two entity intelligence services into one. A complex and very challenging task that the Agency's leadership may have found very well done, with certain problems that they had in establishing the agencies. But we can give them credit for the work that ended in 2004. The Commission has seriously considered the report and Mr Šprić has said so. Some things are said here in this report. However, I must say one thing, that this is the Commission's first report, and that, by law, the annual platform adopts this parliament coming from the Presidency. Therefore, some of the objectives set out in the Intelligence Security Agency Act could be implemented. But we didn't have an agency's annual platform for 2004, but we have a 2005 platform, if you remember we adopted it. It has actually been translated from the Agency's Law and this annual platform will maintain a report that we will receive this year for 2005, where it will likely be, I suppose, more operational things and tasks and objectives that are highlighted in that platform. For this reason, I can say that the SDA Club will vote for this report and that what happened in 2004 was actually translated into this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22190	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? A colleague of Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22191	I had no intention of answering, but given that the debate was being conducted and that I had discussed, constructively tried, I would now say, the Honorable Chairman, your advisors, are legally bringing you into the situation very delicately. Indeed, you said under the law that confidentiality information, secrecy, confidentiality is a very widespread concept, so when someone wants to do ordinary things and talk and write, they say "state secret". It's abuse, in my opinion. Secondly, the Honorable Chairman, you were able to make peace here in front of this house, and I am the fact that you offered the House here, the one to take off this so it wouldn't be a secret, the first thing that is a respected colleague, Beriz Belkić, this is no official secret, this is one concise information to the House of Principles, and inside the information that has been told the tape, in addition to some details and data, it could be a state secret that the public doesn't get to know. Please take a look here. The Director General of the OSCE has not filed a report with us. This is where you chaired the report and here you signed this report. Therefore, you should not have, for a report like this report, asked for the general's consent and your proposal was very good to consider, Mr. Beriz said the interpretation. According to what we've come for. We've lost three hours of what your legal advice isn't and some fellow I don't know which, here 38 front, has broken your law to say secrecy and to general. Please, where's the CEO here?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22192	Please, we solved that dilemma and the others. [[Common discussion Sipović Spiric]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22193	Please honor the chairman, when I say, and you know why, just a little while, I'm a respected colleague, I respect you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22194	Listen to your colleague, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22195	A little courtesy, and keep an eye on it. Please, that's why the Honorable Chairman, and therefore the President of the Commission who evaluated these materials that came from the House, I didn't say it for nothing, and most of them here laughed at me, with a suggestion that we could find a solution through Article 10. And the problem is in some people who are very reduced to interpreting it. The biggest problem is that we are insinuating the procedure of parliament, because we are very closely interpreting the rules of procedure and going to formalism. In that context, I said, since I am a new MP in this house, as a general belief in our working body in a committee that monitors and such a principled report normally that we can support it and I would support it and put the point as a serious parliament of this formal legal procedure, with the remark of a respected colleague, Belkić here we do not see solutions, recommendations, again I say principled nature. Again, it is no state secret to improve this work and improve the work of this service on the basis of the Prime Minister's proposal, and to give some general guidance towards this. For that reason, I felt I needed to answer without answering for this point 10. In the end, it turned out that I was right and there could be a procedure in this, and we're not parading here and certain MPs aren't coming out, and they're not making any pomp and this, and they're not creating in the public opinion that the MPs want something secret to discuss this report. Please, a simple man who reads doesn't have to be an MP, he doesn't have to be educated, what has a special secret here, when we have 90% of the information in newspapers, electronic media. Details that go to reveal certain things, they can be a business secret, a state secret. And I implore you, the Honorable Chairman, to protect the dignity of the House, and to protect the executive authority as Council of Ministers and Directors, it is easy to reach out to anyone who wants to shut down with a big secret, then he secretly, even here, writes no state secret, but writes confidentially. And it's classifiedly the lowest degree of some let's build a secret. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22196	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can answer that? Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić, then Đedović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22197	Very briefly, I would not like to engage in these formal legal positions, in which we have lost a really long time and I think we must rationalise the approach, not only when it comes to these things but in Parliament. But here's what's going to go through like a lot of things in this House when we discussed the report on the work of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and we're not going to focus our attention on the essential issues that are now emerging. I would draw attention here to the situation in the area of economic crime. Anyway, according to this report, economic crime is on the rise. This state has reformed the judiciary, invested considerable funds in the judiciary, the prosecution, the courts. The issue of the effects of their work is raised, it is a question of the efficiency of resolving these institutions. Of course it's about security structures. I think it deserves special attention and that we should focus our activities on the future. Economic crime is worrying. Here, millions, millions are being stolen, yes, in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have no serious processing of these precisely doing entities. That's the essential question. So it's a fundamental question and intelligence, SIPE, of course, the prosecution and courts. These are segments that are the worst functioning in the country, because they show results. No results. And these are too serious things that this parliament and other of course institutions and executive authorities do not deal with this issue. It's been ten years since the war, I think we need to get serious and create conditions for the functioning of the rule of law. Obviously, it doesn't work. This report is well, well-confirmed. We even have an increase in economic crime compared to last year. And We created institutions. So we created institutions. We have institutions, but apparently they don't work. They're not doing their job. Or they don't do legal work, real work. It is not enough to indicate how many violations, public order and peace violations are, and to write a few sentences about economic crime. Don't go in there who's doing it, who's doing it, etc. etc. I think the report is such that it is incomplete, not sufficiently reasoned and at least unacceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22198	Thank you. A colleague, Đedović, answered for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22199	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I would very briefly only two three moments to potentiate. The first is, here I heard a couple and fellow MPs that we were partly to blame for why this hadn't been discussed before. I absolutely disagree because the only reason why this is not discussed is because none of the promoters found it appropriate to be present and has always been moved because of this for the next session. And that's the circle we've been going to. It's about the procedure. I think we should at least pay our attention in the future to two very important things. That's the standard of who got into that service. We become a country of service to various police, intelligence, and God knows what kind of not, whose effects are very problematic. If we look at the criteria, there is a potential element of security, not expertise. That means obedience, not expertise. It's a set of people, I can't speak individually, but according to these elements of a very problematic nature that are resulting in a very difficult time and for very problematic goals. These people need to come true when we now see a goal that protects sovereignty, integrity and that I don't speak anymore. It's incompatible stuff. What this service plans to do to raise expertise, 40 insubordination, repeat expertise to one envious level and really create a service that will act on behalf of this country, not for any individual or party interests and grow into a centre of condemned power, which often happens, not in countries that are in transition like us, but in modern countries. So these are key questions for me that must be presented in the next reports and that things don't go out of control while it's still time. I've had so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22200	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I would ask, of course, this is the first report and you know how we got to the law, to the service, she's in construction, I think the 2005 report will be a report that won't suffer from all these weaknesses he talked about and Dr. Kunić and colleagues Živković and Beriz Belkić. So I ask you to accept today's report and the commission's conclusions. So I ask my colleague Živković as president of the Club on behalf of the SNSD to accept this report. There's a lot of reasons why we're saying this. We need new institutions, new services and support, even when there are weaknesses, not when they are gone. And of course, I do not dispute that we are asking for a more comprehensive report on the annual report, and I think that the Commission for the Control and Labour of Intelligence will also deal with this report in a special way. I'm closing the debate. I'm calling for a vote. So we're voting on the report and the Commission's conclusions. Vote now. Something's wrong with this keyboard, or I have four seconds. So get ready to vote. Vote now. Only three and I have three. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. You're looking at the monitor, you're looking down at where you're voting. Please. Come on. You've got charts on your desk. Who's for the report and the conclusion of the service, the commission's conclusions? Good old ways. Please, who's in? Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22201	So 16 for, if we're counting correctly, against 3.6 abstention. How much? 8. Okay, you're telling me from there, I don't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22202	So we have most of it. It also has an entity majority. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Let's go to the vote. - He's 5. Who's from the Federation for? How much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22203	He's 12. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22204	- He's 12. Enough. So I'm finding 12 for the Federation, 5 from Republika Srpska, that we've accepted the report. Please just a little bit, we accepted, we finished, we accepted the report on the activities of BiH's security intelligence agency for peri.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22205	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I am partly pleased with the answer to the question I asked at the last session, but I did not get an answer, it seems to me to be a fundamental question, which means who and on the basis of which rules did he ask EUFOR to arrest Dragomir Abazović? And I'm going to ask this question, so I wouldn't answer the question again when they're parliamentary questions and answers. But I'd like to comment a little bit and see, it seems to me now that a few things are clear from last session when I asked the question. And it is clear that Mr. Abazović was released from custody. The second thing is clear, according to unofficial reports by the investigative authorities that he and his family did not fire at EUFOR units and it is clear that the prosecution, I would also like it for the public, clearly means that the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not order anyone to arrest Dragomir Abazović. 42 At this time, if it means anything, I also really commend the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Prosecutor's Office who have been very honest and seem responsible for doing their job. Here's just to say for the public, I have to say I read one part of the BiH Prosecutor's response, it's short - about the EUFOR's action in Rogatica, and with the aim of arresting the suspect Abazović Dragomir, and in which action there has been the death of his wife, the suspect and his son, the BiH Prosecution has no knowledge, so I repeat, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has no knowledge other than those that have been made through the means of information. Given that Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution has not issued a warrant, this is what I want it to do, so it has not issued a warrant, nor any other act aimed at arresting the suspect, nor has any report of the same been received after the action was taken. So the question is raised, I repeat, and the fundamental question is -- who gave the EUFOR order to arrest Dragomir Abazović? And I have to be honest and admit whether maybe tomorrow and we can all be in some danger that by accident or intentional error we might be made by someone when we're traveling out of the way. Not to talk about other difficult things. And what we did at the beginning seems to have adopted as a conclusion what Mr. Kunić had suggested, it seems to me that, given the answer of both the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Prosecutor's Office that SIPA will say that we didn't get anything and I don't think they have anything to say new to us. I think it would be much better if we were looking for an answer and if, if it were one of the conclusions of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice and the Court of Justice, it means that we might expand it, but already since we've adopted the conclusion, I don't think I'm going to say any effect on that maybe part of the agenda that's going to be on the next assembly. And I repeat, I will repeat one part of the question means - who is and on the basis of which regulations asked EUFOR to arrest Abazović, and I repeat once again, it really means that the prosecution was quick and efficient and I say if it means something, I really commend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22206	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Word asked for Lozančić. I'd like to pray, today we're at the College, I apologize to my colleague, Ivo, I pray if possible today, given the times we spent around the agenda that just if we don't have a little bit of a need to avoid parliamentary issues, and if not, here we go. Mr. Lozančić, Dr. Kunić, then Sopta RUža.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly. I am satisfied with the partial answers to my questions at the 69th and 71st sessions. I can completely be satisfied with the text of the question asked at the 69th session, but I'm not really satisfied with what was done, because last year we have, I'm not satisfied with a part of the dismembered part of the question, and the point is whether the law that was proposed and repeatedly in the procedure, means the Law on the Agency for the Suspension of Impregnated Assets Was Needed or Not. From this answer to the question, I am convinced that we needed 43, or that she made a mistake by the Administrative Commission, which, in conclusion, claimed that we were only assembling the administration. In the past year, we have had 10 cases and 9 in the Republic of Serbia and 1 in the Federation. We would probably not have these judgments either if they did not seek and initiate international reasons for their demands and demands to be carried out in the territory of the Republic of Srspka as I pour it into the Federation and we do not need the judicial authorities to work on these issues. That would be on this first question from the 69th session. And on the 71st session, I'm satisfied with the answer that's pretty concise, short, but I'm not happy with what's written and what we're doing. We still have, I warned it with this issue from 21.12 last year that since 1.1.2006 we have no entity defence ministry and that we have not fully, i.e. we have extended to the black work of these institutions and that they are performing the role of whether the defence office and defence management are needed, so that in the end it says – the BiH Ministry of Defence will in contact with the competent entity bodies and authorities to initiate further work on the creation of organisational, personal and other assumptions for the implementation of the transfer of those institutions with previous entity defence ministries in the jurisdiction of other bodies of the administration at the level of entities, cantons and municipalities. This means that we haven't regulated it and that the Ministry of Defence should continue to take over jurisdiction in the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina to avoid further arrangements with entities, that some ministries in entity governments are performing the role of the defence ministry or that we are extending the work of part of the administration and municipal offices in entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22208	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22209	...that this is not a replica, but about what Mr. Jovanović said. Well, it is the SIPA for investigations and protection, so to conduct an investigation to see what actually happened and to submit complete information to Parliament. I think it's the real opus that needs to inform this Parliament. I'd like to ask a question about the Budgetary Users Act. My initiative back to five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten months was launched for a year to pass a law on budget users. Budgetary pay law. What stage is that? Why does he hesitate when we know he's an emergency old man? Why the emergency room? And because some institutions determine their own wages. That's not even in Biafra. Please, we met on the Constitutional Commission that one institution determines its own salary. It's such chaos, such a mess, such legal inconsistency, so you can't find it in the world. Please, therefore, urgently pass this law, to establish criteria and criteria to put, primarily, all civil servants and employees in some equal position of all BiH institutions. I think it's primarily necessary. We have some issues, such as courts, prosecutors and other institutions. All state institutions that are on the budget must establish uniform criteria for all these institutions. Niko one can get out of those frames. I think it is primarily an urgent matter and I ask that the Council of Ministers be asked to take this job seriously. Unfortunately, we keep asking the Council of Minsitors for something, and we don't get anything, so the question is, are we even looking for something? Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22210	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. The word has Mrs. Mara Perkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22211	First comments. I have a new parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22212	Comments. Have you moved on to asking questions? Mrs. Milićević comments. I've taken over the chairman's list here. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22213	I thank you. So I want to comment on the answer, not only the answer I received, but also my colleagues, counterpart Špirć, Lozančić, Jovanović. You see, I know that my question and I, Mr. Jovanović, have been asked in Serbian. Answer, so all the common answers we've all got are always getting Latin versions from the Council of Ministers. I pray that the language in which the letter is written is respected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22214	Mrs. Mara Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22215	I have a parliamentary question. - When will the conclusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary House of Representatives be respected since 12.4.2005, issue 01-50-1-54-54/2005? I note that such conclusions were reached by the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Peoples on 27.4.2005, and by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina twice, on 22.3. and 7.9.2005, which required the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and under the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, the Official Messenger No 19/02 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, the Official Messenger 35/04, which has been applicable since 1.1.2004. Namely, there is official information that the BiH Human Rights Tribunal has filed criminal charges against the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the Office for Compensation of damages based on unpaid duties. I note, too, that audit reports pointed to the problem. This is the basic reason why lawyers are leaving jobs and so far 14 have gone, leading to the collapse of human rights tribunals and the automatic mechanism of protecting human rights, at a time when they are the most sensitive and troublesome. As a member of the Commission on Human Rights and Refugees of Immigration and Asylum, I express my concern that the human rights tribunals as the highest body of human rights protection are forced to seek the protection of their human rights through the court. I don't think anyone has the right to destroy those institutions, regardless of the interests they are leaders of. I am also interpreting this as an attack on the 45th floor of the Parliamentary Assembly, which voted the laws in question on the proposal of the same Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22216	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm setting up an initiative. I'm giving the Council of Ministers an initiative. I ask the Council of Ministers to draw up a report on the energy situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina from the aspect of all energy used in households, institutions and the economy, separately from the aspect of price regulation through regulatory agencies and through fiscal policy. Another initiative, I propose to the Council of Ministers to come up with an initiative to unite regulatory agencies for electricity to secure the single electricity market. Third, I propose to the Council of Ministers that, in the context of amendments to the Excise Taxation Act for which we have received information that it is in preparation to come out with a solution for the elimination of excise duty on the vine of oil used for heating. I believe that this should all be urgent for the reason that, at the end of the third or early third month, the State Regulatory Agency for Electricity has indicated new electricity prices, which are projected to increase 40% to 60% in comments. Whether it will be immediate or conflicting is not important, it is important that it will have a very strong effect on the economy, not to mention the social position of households and people in total. You know that there has been a accumulated price of all energy by introducing VAT and this substantial collection, and this collection will literally bring some regions into the total collapse of their economy, not saying that households will be in such a position that they will be more incomparable, incomparable, all other data on which we treat the social category, i.e. the position of households in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that, through this kind of energy policy that is being led and I believe that this is our most unsettled, unsettled part of the market, and through this kind of policy, there is indeed a terrible discrimination of the region. That is why I am giving this initiative as soon as possible and that, preferably, before these prices come into force, we get all this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22218	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22219	Since the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has absolutely deafened all decisions made by this Parliament regarding the stimulation of livestock production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am asking again the question because of the difficult situation which today is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's farm production, as well as the general consensus at the level of all relevant institutions in BiH, so I am also asking the Council of 46 ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly and entity ministries of agriculture and commercials and primary producers to allow for a more intensive and progressive development of primary production in BiH, I am asking the competent ministry to answer me the following question - When will the quantity of contingent free imports be introduced, as well as the abolished customs duties and levies for breeding and tonne material, and so on June for the goods listed in heading Nos 0102, 904900, or for the non-resumed tariff numbers 0102 101000 and meat breeds of pigmeat, heading 0103 919000. I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22220	Thank you. Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22221	So, very briefly. I have a question focused on the Regulatory Agency for Communications -- what is the professional, qualification structure of employees at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency in all sectors and in the governance structure? Is employment carried out according to the requirements of the profession, or in some other way? I'm looking for an answer within the legal time limit, and why am I asking this? From my experience so far in monitoring the work of these agencies and the bodies of some we form here and we establish, we don't always have the right, we don't always have a good insight into what they're doing, especially in this agency that's been taken away, or ripped off any control structure in this country. Let's say we have information, I have information that an architect is employed there. That's why I'm asking if it's some kind of thing. We have someone out there who knows the horticulture. Is that in communication, too? So I will, I'd like to know exactly what the structure and the control and who's running the communications and who's the expert. Whether they are all professional and whether they are all accepted to experts on a particular type of work and work. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22222	Thank you. My colleague Bešlagić Selim.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22223	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I must say that I am extremely pleased with the answer to my parliamentary question regarding the formation of a working group on the draft animal welfare law. I have to say, I'm satisfied even with the group. However, in this response and this solution is the point of the 5th, I will read – members of the working group have the right to cash compensation and to work in the working group, and the amount of compensation and payment is due to determine the Office for Veterinary Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it is found that the group is formed by itself, I would say the official of the state authorities, I ask the question 47 - Does this mean that every law that is passed at the level of the state, those working on the law have the right to part-time work? In other words, I ask that this point 5 be abolished, because that would be, I would say provoking everyone else to be paid for what they've already been paid for.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22224	Thank you. A fellow Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is for the Council of Ministers, which refers to the announced purchases of electricity and the entry into the arrangement of relations within the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina's electricity industry that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, i.e. the transfer of distribution and relations. Last year, it was announced with 30.12. electricity collection by 30%, so it was delayed for the first quarter of this year and expected an enormous blow to all kinds of consumers when it comes to electricity prices, perhaps from the end of next month. The Council of Ministers should, in co-operation with the state power commission, with entity governments to sort of pre-warn the impact and help protect consumers in this first wave, as electricity is expected to be increased to 50%. Today, we have major problems, especially in large industrial plants that use electricity, and it is related to the entry of irregularities in relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we have individual consumers using the entire Croatian community Herceg Bosnia only electrical energy and meet 40% of their needs, while we have, for example. in Republika Srpska and their electricity industry in the electricity sector of Republika Srpska, we have excess electricity. We expected the introduction of a state power commission to somehow control the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a way to be synchronised, and to have a more unique transfer since we have entered the Western European electricity transmission system, and thus we have entered a market game where we can get very unpleasant prices when they are importers of individual, individual companies owned by the state. So today we have that for example. Alumium pays 50% more expensive price than last year until we had no state agencies, until we had no transmission and until we had co-operation between the electricity industry, and that we also have in the space of Republika Srpska entities that the price is lower than earlier by 30% to 40%. So my question is the Council of Ministers – What does it expect and how does it think to come out when production processes are disrupted in large electricity consumers and what protection measures for socially endangered categories in households related to the announced collection? And I suppose you should have closer cooperation with the state agency, or the state power commission, and I expect that cooperation will be highlighted in response.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22226	I thank Mr. Lozančić. The word is Mr. Altić, so let Mrs. Kapetanović and Mr. Suljkanovć be prepared. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22227	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. There is, dear colleague Avdić and I have one question, a parliamentary question and we have one initiative. The parliamentary question is – konstativati that the SIPE intervention in the RAC is legal and legitimate, that it is in the same jurisdiction to investigate, and also on the report of the auditors, and that the operation of the RAC requires the Council of Ministers to consider possibly the political motives of the RAC representatives and their foundations and objectives, because... SIPE must react to a possible attempt to politicise, i.e. the intervention of this state body and motivated by political objectives, as it points out in public. The initiative -- I ask the Council of Ministers, given that the Borders Expert Group has completed its job to discuss the issue of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro and to sign a contract and deliver it to Parliament for ratification. You know the problems of unresolved border issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22228	I thank Mr. Altić. The word has Mrs. Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22229	I have one question and a proposal for an initiative on the issue. I refer to the Ministry of Human Rights of Refugees and Asylum the question - Is it working on inter-entity unification of the rights of civil victims of war as a very sensitive category, because in the current legislative solutions some issues are inadequately treated and constitute a violation of human rights? And then the motion for an initiative – if these issues were not addressed and if they stem from the very function of this ministry, I launch an initiative to raise questions about changes in entity laws in this area, or to propose a state-level law to resolve this more justly. The reasons for this initiative are multiple, and I'm only going to list some. The current legal solutions for determining the status of a civilian victim, the skillful formulations are discriminatory, i.e. those which unfortunately in this war were launched from their hearths and for these and other reasons are civilian victims. It would be natural for those rights to be realized where it happened, and not elsewhere, elsewhere. How we are constantly trying to adopt world standards on human rights through the adoption and adoption of conventions in this area, and as we have heard in the stories of the new constitution, the highest standards in the field of European rights are not only controversial, resulting in the need to be controversial and to change some solutions and stop violating human rights, at least the ones we can influence. The current solutions are currently amnesting the obligations of the sadification and compensation of those who have produced the victims. And in order to raise the question of whose victims, it would be best to regulate it in a state act, i.e. a legal solution. Such solutions would automatically facilitate reintegration in the middle of all who have returned and those who intend to return, as well as unnecessary feelings of a divided personality and 49 fears that this right will be lost by changing the place of residence. I'll put this in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22230	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Suljkanović reported and thus, Mr. Sipović. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22231	Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club, I am launching an initiative to move the debate on amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the BiH institution, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The existing constitution as a fundamental act of the state that did not bring citizens to the country, but was imposed by the Dayton Agreement after the end of the war, has become an insurmountable obstacle to the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its path to Euro-Atlantic integration. We propose to the College to unite this and all initiatives so far on amending the Constitution and urgently forward them to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, put these initiatives into parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22232	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović. Completed login.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22233	Mr. Chairman, since I'm in last session at 73. On 30 January 2006, he asked two questions and two initiatives to the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries, and so far I have not received any answer for a full 14-day period, and I think the effectiveness of the issues asked is very important, I will look only at one more time, to raise another question that is current and that does not require a delay, and I am asking the Council of Ministers and Resolute Ministry of Justice, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that initiative, along with this initiative and international factors of the OSCE, OHR, the Office of the OHR and Minister of Human Rights, is concerned - at what stage is it going to be referred to in the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Lawyers of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I explained that there are now two existing entity laws and I explained to the initiative that I have no reason not to remain those laws, but the need to pass a law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is dry. For ten years, it has been waiting, and this is the obligation of this home and this country to bring in one legal matter that will regulate one, the status of one very important law enforcement activity, and all relations with the attorneys speak of the democracy of a state and the protection of human rights. I believe it has been a long time, there have been a number of initiatives towards this home and the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so far we have not received information. A large number of lawyers from both entities are not resolving their status and status normally due to the lack of laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and represent the interests of 50 of their defenders, defenders at the level of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other competent authorities are inadmissible. So the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers then resolve their status with some temporary decisions. Given that there has been a reform of the judiciary and that it has been established, that the established Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think a very important segment in the protection of human rights is absolutely necessary for the adoption of the law on law on law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, if this house is appreciated and I convey my colleagues' opinion, we will ask for support from the International Union of Lawyers of the World and European Union and we will raise one discrimination against this category of people who cannot exercise their legal constitutional rights under Article 2(2). Bosnia and Herzegovina and Article 1 of the first Protocol, together with the European Convention, and without being treated as a factor, have been damaged by their status. And they do a very important segment, and here, my distinguished colleagues are constantly talking about the full mouth about the protection of human rights, the calling of various conventions, the European Convention, and when it comes to such a significant service, we are ingotically related. We will persist and say that I will ask the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Justice for Mr Kovač to, to hand me that information and press conference, and thousands of lawyers are alive interested in resolving this. And believe me, they're looking and they trust this house to support such a law. He doesn't cost anything financially, materially, he just edits one matter that matters. I think, regardless of whether or not I'm a pain in the ass, maybe I am, but we'll certainly try to achieve our goal to get to those legal rights that follow, and I've received a request and a bar of lawyers who have now told me to just orally ask for that information, and they'll also request written involvement in the debate to pass such a law. I think it's about time, and we specifically refer this to OHR, because I have information that it is in the Legal Department to give opinions and prepare this law and the OSCE which is a very important body in the protection of human rights and in this segment of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22234	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude this item on the agenda of Parliament's questions and answers. I'm asking you in writing to deliver parliamentary questions, it would be shorter, more summary, and we would have finished this point sooner. But here's a note for the future. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the Bill on the Completion of the Excise Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. On 3 February, the Rules of Procedure of Poslanik Ćeman delivered in the procedure the draft Act supplementing the Excise Act with a request to be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request is included in the agenda of this sitting. The proposal for a law was sent to you on 6 February. I'm opening a discussion on a request for a shortened procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 51 Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 26 votes for, 4 against, 2 abstentions, we have accepted MP Mirsad Ćeman's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and we move to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The request of MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vink Zorić to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure This bill was delivered to the House on 8 February. As you know, counterpart Novaković, Jahić and Zorić have been appointed to the task force to prepare changes and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. They completed the job and delivered the bill with a request to be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You've got the text of the proposed law on the bench today. I hope we can discuss the request for a shortened procedure even though you received the text of the law today. I think that this shortened procedure on the line that the law is passed and that we would not have movement related to the upcoming elections, and in that sense I would like to express my personal support for the shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22235	Like this. I signed this request even though I was promised that, in fact, we would all get it in Croatian, and also because of the urgency I only signed one page and I was very disappointed today when I received four amendments and additions. So four. And here under the table, I don't have a bunch of paper here. All four are not in Croatian. And then I got a letter from the OHR, the date was yesterday, and it was two hours ago on the table, three hours ago, they're calling the members of the task force to draft the election law for a meeting tomorrow. I really can't plan time like that. I can come to Parliament's emergency sessions, I'll postpone and put that in priority. But I was planning on doing something completely different tomorrow, too, in the description of representation jobs. And I can't have someone call me 20 or 24 hours before the meeting and probably suggest to me here as a legislator, or to us as members of the task force to change our attitude. I'm asking this home to protect us from these meetings. Not since OHR, I want to talk to OHR, but since these meetings, we are putting this law in the process today and asking my colleagues to do this by 104, but that is the conclusion of the group so that we can meet all the deadlines and that we can announce whether the Election Commission is voting for this year. I publicly say here in this microphone that I can't, so not that I won't, but I can't be at this meeting, and I also expect from here our services, if it wasn't those who gave us logistic support in the working group that still these laws, the bill proposals are translated into all three languages so that my fellow MPs can respect fully and what Mrs Ljiljana just said here that we should all receive in a letter and language that we prefer, or that we speak in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22236	I thank my colleague Zorić. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22237	Very short. Mr. Chairman, I support that this law goes according to Article 104, but this is the only case I want to draw attention to. This is actually going to be 11 sort of interventions to this law. It is seen from the introductory sentence in which all the official papers have been published and the basic text of the law as well as the amendments and additions. If I remember correctly, and I think that's exactly the situation, some of these amendments to the Electoral Law were declared by the Office of the High Representative, or the High Representative. No confirmation has been carried out, I find such a law by this parliamentary assembly. I think we should carry out that procedure. It's in those rules of standardizing how it's done, and I'm mentioning this because of what it's going to do, but I'll probably do it at this stage when it's in front of the committee in charge through the form of the amendment. It will take the least work and the consolidated text of this law, because it will be very difficult to apply it tomorrow and to have a clean situation so that this initiative can be submitted with a proposal to confirm one of the amendments and additions to this electoral law so that we can have it all in the context of a single legal system when it comes to this issue. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22238	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Dr. Crescent. Kunić, Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22239	So we have a very current issue, i.e. a very common question to propose the laws under Article 105 or 104. It's used. It's no longer an exception, and it should be an exception. It's now become a rule. Therefore, the laws of 104 are proposed in a shortened procedure, as referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I would draw you attention to one thing, that election law is the most important law after the Constitution. And I've been given some material today about the dispute over the amendments to the Electoral Law, as soon as it's already entered into some measuring matters of the law into very important matters of this law and I don't know how good it is to be brought in this way by a shortened procedure. I don't think it gives the possibility to argue, and these laws, the content of this law requires and the debate, and I think we should think carefully about whether we should go under Article 104, since I'm in some way afraid of the ultimate outcome so that we can get a vote on some essential issues. That wouldn't be good. I don't think it would be good. And so the question arises whether to accept this shortened procedure even though Mr. Novaković told me that we are running out of time to call the elections and that otherwise we will not be able to use this law for the upcoming elections. We've held elections under the old law, I think we can conduct the next election under the old law, or existing legal regulations, and we wouldn't do anything wrong. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to being careful in this regard. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22240	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22241	Thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we are now in a hurry to race with time. We should have taken care of that earlier, first of all I think about this task force that after a certain time has been delivered to us and now we in the competent commission, constitutionally speaking yesterday about the constitutional basis, and the issue of a shortened procedure is left when we open the issue of principles, or amendments. But I would suggest something to my colleagues and colleagues, which is that we have opened up one issue of constitutional changes at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is almost as if it were left aside, or forgotten, but I think a new round of talks will be renewed and that those people who are talking, although I think that this is the wrong approach that leaders should talk about within the institutions, I think Parliament is for that the most competent and competent is there, that question should be opened. Whether they'll take care of it, I don't think they will, because they're burdened with political reasons, and that takes time. It's just that there's something that needs to be resolved and there's not much that can be solved. This task force didn't have that absolutely in mind. At the same time, individual amendments will also contribute to certain amendments and additions and the existing proposal that we have received here in different variants. So I think, as smart as it is now, with what Professor Kunić was saying, of course, he's right when it comes to the importance of this law, but at the same time we have what Mr. Novaković said in the conversation that 180 days we have to establish the rules by which the elections will be held and that is the time when we have to go out with something new, or we will use the old one as well as Professor Kunić. We have the law, not that we don't have it, but whether we're going to get something in between, something that will make a bigger problem if we don't end up defining open these constitutional issues that are right in front of the public and we expect it to end in one way. How to reconcile it all. There is no time, and I think that we as Parliament should take care of it. We have to answer those questions. We do not have at this time, because we are not in a position objectively to negotiate on this matter yes, which will directly have to do with the law of the Election Law to answer. We don't have that capacity. We don't know, we're not some kind of prophets now who'll know how it's gonna end. Why do they think we're doing something and we haven't actually been able to get to something that might be the drive and intensity inside Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's why I think this working group is the product of this national assembly majority, that you've agreed on something here to think of something to bring yourself, big parties to a more favourable position, and to blow away these less, and that was that greed, greed, etc. For bringing this one together. And that's why I think that between you in some way your aspirations to do that, to form a task force, she's given you something now, and she hasn't given you anything. Oh, no, I mean that now, but basically, I think it would be good if we tried a business solution. Maybe we should even vote this out. Just wait for something that's likely to be agreed in the next period. And don't laugh at the fellows you're laughing at right now, I'll remember everything you have to me. Now we have 104. We have 15 days. We have time. And you know what's gonna happen to you 54. You'll have to accept everything in one day. Someone will bring you on the side of what you're saying right now. It won't do you any good. So let's keep our dignity. We accept that to wait for some things, and this procedure needs to be completely rejected. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22242	Thank you. A colleague, Momčilo Novaković, answered for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22243	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, since I am one of the signatories of this emergency procedure, and as you know very often, I do not, or I do not support such demands, have to say that the task force planned to finish the job by the end of 2005. But also in good faith, regardless of the deadlines, we wanted to consider issues that, or comments, suggest a desire, etc. who came to us after that. Especially from different NGOs. That's why we found ourselves in a situation where the discussion of this text of the Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law extended meaning in January of the month and we came here now to see, we came to a situation where we simply, if we want the next elections to be conducted in accordance with this law, we have to work under Article 104. So basically we have to, by law it's supposed to be 180 days before the election to lay down the rules. So at the time of the election's appointment, they have 180 days under the law, we have to have clear rules of choice. It's up to this house to say whether it's acceptable or not. Of course, we can make choices under the previous law. But it seems to me that we've been working out a few key things here. We think there are several key improvements, especially when it comes to voter registration, about switching to passive voter registration. So on some of the remarks that have otherwise been made under the current electoral law and that it would be a shame not to conduct the elections in accordance with this law. Of course it's possible, I know it's not a long period for 15 days, but I think it's enough to be able to submit an amendment in this time period and, of course, to finish the job in one debate. I must say that the way this task force has worked, and that is to ask of all the interested comments, is in some way a sort of public debate. So we have had in some way a public debate on such a, though organised, and I must also say that all this that you find here is the result mainly, so mostly a consensus in the working group in which besides the members of Parliament were members of the Election Commission who were not defined in a party way as Mr Gligorić said. We know they're not, so we know who's sitting there in front of the Electoral Commission, so I have to say, this is really the result of a very serious job and of looking at this process from different aspects. And key to what I still want to say and I'm going to finish, we didn't have a mandate to enter the Constitution and constitutional changes. So the mandate of this task force was based on an existing constitution and existing procedures. So prepare the amendments and additions of the Electoral Law and we did it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22244	Thank you. The replica has a Dr. It's a Kunić. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22245	Here I am to indicate the moments that are very important in the adoption of this law. In the light of the fact that I was on a commission to draft an earlier law, we were working for about two years on Election Law, about two years to agree on some points, and that's why a law like this when it comes to changes and additions, of course requires a public debate. The essential question is whether the critical mass will be 3 or 4 percent. It's an essential question. And no wonder the representatives of certain parties showed up. I never equalize parties with individuals. So there are people in every party that I have great respect for. I respect all parties. But it's a little symptomatic that three people from these parties are showing up. So that allows me to think in my own way and do some judgments and I am entitled, of course, to special courts. I therefore think it would be very bad, so it would be very bad if the Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Election Law was adopted by a reduced procedure. It would be one slap to this parliament, another one of a series of slaps this parliament has won in these three and a half years. Therefore, it would really not be good to commit rape of the Electoral Law, which I said was the most important after the Constitution and that it was in a shortened procedure. Well, please, if I was on the committee, I wouldn't have thought it was going by a short procedure. I wouldn't have the thought of saying – please, this law will go according to Article 104. I think you have all the arguments you want that such a law can't go according to a brief procedure. I think that we are, in some way, disrupting Parliament's height and creating an atmosphere that a certain interest group is able to push everything through this Parliament without public debate, without the participation of citizens, etc. etc. And the Law of Election requires the participation of the citizens. It requires the participation of citizens, demands the participation of NGOs. It's the NGO sector to say what's wrong, etc., not to stay in a closed circle. I don't underestimate the work of the commission, the commission certainly, probably made great efforts to come up with some solutions, but I think it remains in a closed circle that in some ways protects the interests of certain groups. Therefore, I would ask Parliament to conclude that this law is going into regular procedure and to establish a possible public debate on amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22246	Thank you. He was looking for a colleague, Novaković. I think we've brought the debate in on the procedure. I did because here's my colleague, Novaković, he was still looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22247	Namely, I would only like correctness in my work and I do not think it is correct to bring it this way in relation to the three members who have signed this law in another context. That's why I'm saying it. I repeat, the three of us are less than one-third of that task force. So we're less than one-third of that task force. Secondly, the task force is, I repeat, having a kind of public debate. We have had over 500 pages of various suggestions, objections from NGOs, through political parties, individuals, etc. etc. All solutions the task force has set up for all solutions by the Electoral Commission and the Secretariat of the Electoral Commission, which these solutions mean it has formed in a way that they are in the spirit of the Electoral Law. 56 And because of the real correctness I want, I don't think it is, I repeat, not correct this relationship, or the observation of these members of the task force in this way. Let me remind you that he's a professor. Kunić was elected member of this task force, that he did not accept that he was working and that I came only to mean after not accepting Mr Kunić to be in this task force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22248	Thank you. Replica Dr. Kunić, so Dr. Gligorić. Give it real if it can.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22249	There's no replica, if there's a replica of why I'm taking something that I can do seriously. I'm so busy I couldn't do it, but isn't it enough that I've been involved in making this law for two years? Well, I think enough Kunić. Don't object to that. It's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22250	Okay, dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now that this is a nice fellow Novaković, and he can explain it nicely, it flows in harmony like milk, if he would like to ask him who in the opposition is in the task force. You said you were one-third, so as modest as you are, you are small, he, Vinko and Jahić, modestly one-third. The SDS is not an opposition. Now I'm asking, you know what the opposition really is. Let go of what you're jumping in from SNSD covering these and those. Let it go. I'd, like, rotate a little. No, I slept with Mr. Džaferović, but I'd like to hear it. No, no, I'm out to the first point. Mr. Novaković, I would really like to see you, and wherever I was on some committee I know everything, always count 9 members, always. Who are these people who worked with you from the opposition when you took care of us all so long? She got into some secret chambers out there somewhere and brought this to us now. Yesterday I got it and I took the money, I don't know, I can't say it. Just what I know. And that's why it would be good if it were going into regular procedure, rather than getting us into that position we have nowhere to go. The rest of the election so many 180 days, the rules need to be known, and that's also part of your script. Why didn't you do it before? You've been working hard and long, and that's what you should have said. So I'm asking you to do it on a regular basis and we'll get there again. But we will all be able to get involved, including Professor Kunić, who is an expert in this, because then he will certainly get involved. He's doing something else on the committee. It is second when the issue of public debate is raised, when the citizens of the NGO and we participate, then we will get good changes and additions to the Electoral Law. I beg you, people, let's not do this in a short procedure, but let's go to a regular procedure and vote that way, and that's the conclusion. Here, let it be mine. Let us vote 104 in two conclusions, a regular procedure and a shortened procedure. I ask the MPs to consider this hoax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22252	Please, those who have reported multiple times to report it is Valentine's Day and not to fall in love with the discussion, but the essence of love, so colleague Živković. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22253	I would agree with Mr Gligorić, of course in part of his discussion, not the one mentioned by the SNSD, but the other one concerning the work of this commission here. The fact is that they came practically into the teat and that this amendment to the Electoral Law could be brought before this parliament much sooner and that public debate could be held in the meantime. I stand for it. However, the fact is that we have now come in a position to choose between whether the electoral law will be passed or not into the new electoral law, and we have all agreed here on several occasions that parts of that electoral law must be implemented. For this reason, if you are reading the Rules of Procedure, you will see that we do not have time in the next month to conduct a procedure in a regular procedure or to open a public hearing. So we come into a practical and fragmentatic situation so we can just do 104. Did the Commission work in a way, we just said no, in my way that should be done. If we can do otherwise, we in Parliament cannot but accept 104, and in this we make our biggest contribution to the amendments to try to amend this law. On the other hand, I don't understand the status of this task force right now. Namely, is she the legislator of this law in the sense that she and those neighbours will defend the law. Whether it will be the one to amend the law in case constitutional changes occur, and under the new law, we here in Parliament will choose a new commission where the opposition will be involved in the process, so that we can change that electoral law, even if it is from the opposition, so I do not understand the status of that working group now. Did she stop her work with what she had handed over to Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22254	Thank you, fellow Živković. ...exposed the SNSD's position. Our eyes are against Brussels and we would like this to go all by its own procedure, as a democratic party facing the future. Therefore, the Commission proposed. It's our place to plead. Nobody's answering any more. I'm closing the debate. Dr. Crescent. Sead Avdić, please, we have concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22255	I would just like to support these efforts to objectively get a regular procedure with a more efficient one work to catch up with the time and simply to have the Electoral Law ready to apply for the October 2006 elections. Why am I saying this? Because objectively, well, public debate in principle, there was essentially no and the working group objectively has only part legitimacy to create such a single proposal, which in many of its elements is really this step towards substructuring parliamentary democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And not to discuss the bill that I think is absolutely unacceptable, because it simply locates power and power in several large parties, which will simply, certainly, reflect democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means the development of parliamentary democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I propose to vote on the ordinary procedure of the Law, i.e. the amendment of the Electoral Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22256	If she doesn't pass this one, she's safe. That's the Rules of Procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. - For 29, against 9, abstention by no one. I agree that we have accepted the request of MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vink Zorić to discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure and thus obtained the conditions to move to the sixth item of the agenda, which is Ad.6. Request of the Council of Ministers on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law were adopted at the House of February 10th. You got him on the bench today. It is a request for a procedure under Article 104. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So it's 30, against 1, no one abstention. I agree that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been working very hard, and the College is proposing a break by 3:30. Use it for lunch. We're moving on to a budget debate. I ask the clubs to level the differences with lunch, if they exist. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Now we're on the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. The proposal of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 (first reading) As you know at the 72nd session of 16 January, we gave the competent commission a 15-day deadline to discuss the amendments already submitted, as well as the new ones to be submitted within this deadline and to submit a new report to Dom. The Commission followed the conclusion of the House and submitted a new report. You've got a new report. You saw the Commission adopt seven amendments to the budget. Following the report of the amendment they wish to defend in the plenary phase, the following MPs tabled: SDS - eight amendments, SDA - five amendments, SNSD - one amendment, Dr. Zlatko Lagudmžija – nine amendments, Miloš 59 Jovanović – five amendments, Jozo Križanović – one amendment, etc. Tihomir Gligorić – one amendment. I remind you that we discuss the budget in our first reading. I'm opening a debate. Is the hair picking up the word? Is anyone picking up? Dr. Crescent. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22257	I'll do it very briefly, seeing as there's not much mood to talk about the draft budget bill. I wanted to point out that I am deeply convinced that this budget statement break from last session to this day is not, I seem to have brought some new quality to the draft budget, so, according to my deep conviction, no respected remarks and suggestions made in the debate twenty days ago. In this regard, I also proposed and reiterated my amendment because I wanted to point out the inaccuracy of the principle of proposal, i.e. to conjecture the entire budget with a basic regret, which seems to me repeatedly one practice that very routinely we build and upgrade certain items from the previous period without any criticism towards the demands of the budget beneficiaries for those items and without having any say in the household relation to budget funds. So in that sense, I wanted a general note and my impression of what we have today in relation to the amendments adopted in relation to what we had. I honestly expected that much more effort would be made than the promoter and that the strong comments of the suggestion that were highlighted in the previous session of this house would be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22258	Thank you. A colleague, Belkić, answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22259	Well, here's the thing I picked up most about not really getting the impression that there's no interest in this matter, but we're all less everybody when it comes to first reading said what we had to say. I agree with Mr Križanović that the planning has a strong presence in this automation, this momentum of transferring certain positions and acquired positions. There's a problem in planning and you're all budget users, etc. they have not yet reached that degree and way of understanding how the budget is planned according to functions etc. But here I am not taking up time for you, as far as we are concerned, we will support this budget, of course, with the fact that the proposaler attended the meetings of the Finance and Budget Commission and we have been through a debate on the Commission of certain things, adopting certain amendments, however, and we have been correcting it, so there are some changes. But here's the conclusion, we're going to support the principles on which this budget rests, of course I'm not repeating that criticism of lateness and the rest of what we talked about in the last debate on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22260	Thank you. A colleague, Momčilo Novaković, answered for a word. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the finance minister. The first question is - were the amendments that were in the procedure, I was not confused, so I know why I ask that, discussed at the Council of Ministers, or were those which were not accepted, so either the position of the Ministry of Finance and on the other hand, the second question is – was the Economic Committee, or was it somehow called the Council of Ministers discussed these amendments, and did he also agree that these amendments should be rejected?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22262	Thank you. Is the Minister going to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22263	Here's what I'm gonna say. I'm gonna say hello to all of you. So regarding these amendments tabled on this committee, the Committee on Finance and Parliament's budget has been proposed a great deal of amendments which have been discussed within the framework of the Commission last time, as the second time. So they were in the regular procedure when the budget came from the Council of Ministers with the position of the Committee on Economics, who then supported the budget, with the position, with the support of the Presidency which actually proposed the budget and came to the commission, or the Commission on Finance and Budget and to Parliament and was re-returned to that so-called. The commission phase. So no more amendments to the Council of Ministers or to the Committee on Economics, but the committee took a position, it included what was adopted in the report, and what was not restored today. So the Bureau is a proposing, and it doesn't go back that way in the process. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22264	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22265	I asked the Minister if, I know what the Commission did, but I asked the Minister – whether the amendments, the decision not to accept the amendments had been made by the Council of Ministers and the Economic Committee, or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22266	He made a decision, the decision was made by those people who attended the commission at the time. And you know that I attended the committee and you know that the lady who insisted that I come to the commission, that I couldn't be present right away, that I was half an hour late and that I was actually on behalf of the Presidency that person who could actually make that decision after the presidency concluded. So I'm proposing a budget, and I was on their behalf on that commission. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22267	Thank you. Who's still answering for the word? Dr. Crescent. Avdić. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22268	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think it loses any sense of any principled remarks on the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've led this to absurdity. The document is the maximum compromise in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers, and I have been discussing one item of the budget for two years, and other special services have been agreed. They grow year by year to increase by 83% this year compared to 2005. And in this context, there are no less than 18 million and 262 thousand etc. 566 KM. Without any danger, I claim as the functioning of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, ministries etc. This item is not required. I repeat again, this item is not necessary. This can be spent wherever and where the benefits of projects and simply prevent the ministries from being able, conditionally and roughly speaking, to manipulate the funds provided for the agreed and other services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22269	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm going to have Ljilja Milićević wanted a replica, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will now say, because Madam Minister said, "Some lady, I am this lady and I am not doing it for me or for her sake, but for the Commission's dignity." Why? Conclusion attached to the budget by the Bureau, paragraph 3. - says the Parliamentary Assembly session, as well as the commission, our position as rapporteur on the proposal for a budget of BiH institutions and international obligations, on behalf of the BiH Presidency, will be attended by the magistrate Ljerka Marić. We gentlemen have come to the situation that we have postponed half an hour on the agenda, because it has turned out that the House of Peoples, which I respect very much about international disputes signed by Minister Marić, can consider the point – international agreements and agreements and that was far more specific than being in a session where the name and last name of someone is authorized to be present, rather than to be at a meeting of the Finance Commission. And I would do it again, and as long as I ask myself, I will insist on it, if the budget is one of the most important things that the Council of Ministers and Finance is taking part in, it must and should be in the session of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22271	Thank you. But I don't see any mistakes. The minister can't be in two places at the same time. So I think it's a good thing that the minister attended and gave interpretations. She was invited to a meeting of the House of Peoples. A colleague, Novaković, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22272	So I want to replicate the minister, and I really absolutely understand that the minister was present on behalf of the Presidency on behalf of the Commission, and that made it possible and authorised by the Presidency. 62 We have in one session here in charge of the Commission to practically look at all aspects, make a new report, and thus leave time for the Minister of Finance to consult with the Budget Proposer. It was perfectly normal for the finance minister to consult with the Presidency afterwards, especially about some amendments to the club, not underestimating the other, but here are all others, that I am now not giving up any amendments that have had a very serious, therefore, principle calls into question. So one serious principle of this law is questionable. It seems to me that there have not been sufficient consultations with the draft budgetor and I, on the other hand, am not sure that some of these amendments would not have been accepted by the Presidency. So, I'm not sure if there was, it was left for a while for those additional consultations. Of course someone figured it out in some way. I took it as a time to talk seriously about these amendments, not only do they easily refuse. Others obviously took it as a time means that you should use some things to get a little hair in this budget I'm really not happy with.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22273	Thank you. Who's still answering for the word? Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22274	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, when the time of the amendment comes, naturally I will talk about it like everyone else. As for the principle, so also counterpart Križanović said the same way to me, I am one of the members of the Commission, it seems to me to be the only member of the Commission who was on the Commission against this budget and its principle. I didn't. Great. Against principle the same. Great. So there were more of us. The SDS just started turning into an opposition. In any case, I'm not disgusted with that ski with the yes and I'm against it, we keep our logic and we have our own policy and every principle turns out to be right after all. We are against this for only five reasons, speaking of principles. The first reason is that I am up to the commission stage both in both of them and in the Parliament's session since last year and in advance, we consistently point to the same thing. This is the first principle, conditioned both by the main and those to be representatives of the state, the institutions are in fact showing an increasing propensity for luxury and one unlimited increase in funds. Just to give you an example that Parliament and the Presidency, you know that in the Bureau we had an audit report of this sort all, such assessments that since we gave these assessments to the Presidency a year ago, they have increased their budget by 25%. Parliament acts in a similar way. Another reason is that all those items in the budget relating to the presence, our organised, appropriate international integration associations, such as the VTO and the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, and even such projects as one sad item that has been going through for the third year, are called the possibility of developing domestic production and stimulating domestic production. Two years ago, it was planned with 40,000 marks and a realized zero, so last year the plan rose again to 40,000 from zero, and this year there is no zero. Just to see how we do not act in principle on a single item called – the development and stimulation of domestic production. 63 When it comes to the approach of the VTO and the establishment of the Directorate for European Integration as an institution, as well as the processes that they should lead in the role of creating a new generation of leaders in an express sense in this area, we see that no systemic approach exists either in the Directorate for European Integration or in the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The third principled example and our observation refers to a completely non-systemic solution to a project called Corridor Vc. We've been trying for two years to be something that is, if nothing is a matter of budget and it's not being run as a ventivity project. But we don't have any success here either. We cannot accept that this is how the budget treats Corridor Vc. The fourth example is why we can't support it – the information of society and I, at least if I understand it as everyone else, I don't understand it at all, at least in the information of society I understand. That's where he's pulling out the same thing. The creation of a project to inform society now has an item of zero. Last year there were about 10,000, if I'm not mistaken, so this zero is practically better than 10,000, because 10,000 create an illusion that something's going on, and today we have the agenda of the Information Society Agency that is so demanding that it can really welcome every serious one, but unfortunately in the budget we don't see any reflection, even where new institutions are mentioned that are expected to be in the explanation this year, it doesn't see that this law that's on our agenda today is even being treated seriously. And the fifth and last, in principle, it's that we insist that the salaries are limited by employment in this year and that one principle be introduced. No Niko is against new state institutions, but we are against making new state institutions that entities remain in the capacity that they are, if they have nothing to do, I think the problem is that they are funded in the same capacity as before. That this is one principle that has been sought for two years to create new institutions, the more we now finance ourselves from a single account, that when new institutions are created that there is a commitment that hiring new people at a state level means a proper reduction in the number of employees employed from taxpayers' funds at lower levels. Whether it's Republika Srpska, or the Federation or the cantons, that's the thing that shouldn't be solved here. Such a principle, so these principles have all been rejected in this budget. I'm talking about principles now. I've listed only five principles here because we've spent a long time talking about nothing, and now I'm lemitating this story at five points. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22275	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the discussion on principles. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 23, versus 11, abstention 2. We have the total majority, the entity majority. I realise that the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 were accepted in the first reading. 64 Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether we are willing to move on to another reading, because there are amendments that we want to defend, MPs want to defend in another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now to go to another reading. - 26, 7 versus, 4 abstentions. So we have the majority, the total majority and the entity majority. I find that we have decided to discuss the budget and in other readings, and in that sense I would like to inform you that SDS – eight amendments, SDA – five, SNSD – one, Dr. Zlatko Lagudmžija – nine, Miloš Jovanović – five, Jozo Križanović – one and Tihomir Gligorić – one. We would be grateful if one of the amendment's proposings created an atmosphere to get to the second reading budget, or to contribute to the Commission yes, or if he knows the mood to give up the amendment. That would be useful, if not, to open up a debate on amendments. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22276	So right now, let me finish, so normally these nine amendments that I, pardon 11 amendments, 12 amendments. I don't know how. I don't know how. I don't know how. Okay. Therefore, the adoption of these amendments would not violate the figures in total, because the amendments that are here go to the fact that the figures that have been reduced, as the figures for the Parliamentary Assembly are not reduced, the figure for the Presidency is reduced, the figure for the High Prosecutor's Council is reduced, the current reserves are reduced, the Administrative Board for indirect taxation is reduced. Something called the macro-secretary, believe it or not in the board of directors, the macro-secretary of the Management Board of indirect taxation requires only a new 100,000 marks compared to last year. No less, no more. So, the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. Project of presence of VTO, development of domestic production. It's nothing done in a number that would disrupt the total ratio. So all these amendments move within the same figure, and as far as Corridor Vc is concerned, we insist that it is finally put under budgetary control and that it should be approached more seriously and normally, if the amendments that talk about financing staff costs from the budget should not be increased, if these amendments were accepted, since you Mr Špirić called for constructiveness to come to the budget, if these amendments were adopted, then there would be a removed reason why we believe that this budget actually needs to be written in a circle so that it could be put into a pen and sent to the office.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22277	Thank you. Here is a warning from the MPs that they have in mind these instructions that Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. So colleague Novaković asked for a word. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22278	I thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, so you see the SDS Club has given several amendments that should have been made in turn to allow a few key, according to us activities in the following year. In fact, we felt that it was necessary, given the agreement reached on the Council of Ministers and the introduction of the new Ministry of Agriculture, that it is very important that, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this ministry also enables farmers and processors, so that the food industry can begin the process of training for accession, training for EU rules. And in that sense, we have offered two significant amendments. One for agriculture stimulation and one for the food industry. I must say, I'm surprised by the acronyms of the budget promoter, since I repeat that this ministry at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina will probably have one of the most important obligations of what I'm talking about. Or it'll just be formed to have him on state level. Another significant amendment is an amendment concerning funds for the census. I think you, of course, don't think the minister should listen to what I'm saying, but it would be correct for him to listen, since I really listened to her. In the opinion of experts who, or if you want a statistical agency to carry out a census, you need to prepare for some three years. This amendment was supposed to allow for a 2009 census. So, the list between the 2008 local elections and the new general elections in 2010, because it is not realistic to make the census in the election year. And it fits into some attitudes here that have been repeatedly stated that the census will be carried out here by 2010. Unfortunately, as things stand, we will enter the EU rather than execute the census. Or it's good to say that if we do this, we're not going to join the EU, so we don't need to worry. So the proposer of the budget had to have enough hearing, if not for the figures, means if not for the number, and then for these items and these attitudes. We have also proposed a part of the means to eliminate the consequences of the flood, as this is also a very important issue, given that certain activities on the plan are already being conducted in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What did we propose to remove these funds from? So please, by adopting the Defense Act, we have clearly defined that the total funds spent to defend this year cannot be greater than the collection of all funds spent on defense in the previous year. And we have done nothing but propose an amendment in accordance with this legislative provision. Also when we adopted the Law on indirect taxation management, we had one of the key factors that increased efficiency and cost reduction. The total funds we've proposed here to reduce exactly how much they're increased by compared to the sum of all the organs that deal with this activity. So tax administrations, customs administrations, etc. It seems to me that the basic principles were not respected by those laws that we passed and by those laws that the proposer, whom the promoter was fully aware of. I know that there is probably no mood for any of these amendments to be respected again by the promoter and I regret to say that one serious intention to raise the importance of some institutions here and in this way has not come to an absolute understanding, or has not come to an understanding at all. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22279	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22280	Ladies and gentlemen, and my decision to the budget will be in a way if certain amendments are accepted, which are already meant for something more, so I would also like to point out that the amendment that I have invested and it would be good to get the necessary support, and that is also relevant to youth policy in order for it to be really correct in this House to open this issue and to give concrete financial resources for their work. I suggested that from position 22. Indirect Taxation Administrations from point 2. — remuneration of employees of 3 million KM, to place those funds in position 29. Ministry of Civil Affairs 3. — special purpose programme in point 10. The Commission for the Co-ordination of Young People's Questions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have, in my time, proposed a resolution to this Parliament that the years of 2004 and 2005 be the years of youth and the years of solidarity and we adopted it. The resolution also obliged the Council of Ministers to draw up the programme, to form a fund and everything in that resolution in time until today we have not received reports from the Council of Ministers or information that anything has been done after that conclusion of the House of Representatives. And this conclusion shares the fate of many conclusions of the House of Representatives where the Council of Ministers has disobeyed to do anything and thus only another new confirmation of the ignoring of the executive authority when it comes to the legislative authority. At the same time, I received from the Youth Information Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you, too, have been given to my fellow Members, because I see from this letter that they have addressed all MPs, or MPs and delegates in the second House with a desire to assist them with financial resources. I replied to Mr. Jan Zlatan Kulenović, what I did in the meantime, provided him with my amendment and unfortunately an explanation that in the commission phases, and we had the opportunity, at the conclusion of the House, to invest the amendments twice in the finance commission and the budget. This amendment was not supported within the Commission, so I decided to defend it at the plenary session, according to the Rules of Procedure. We often talk here about young people and here is the opportunity to help these young people respond to the Commission's request to coordinate youth issues at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think you've got that in hand, too. I also got it, and I think it would be perfectly normal for us as a legislative body to determine those funds that this committee that is with the Council of Ministers, because we are establishing a policy, that is, youth policy, and that it would be perfectly normal for those funds, as we have suggested, to go to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and, in this place, to establish a particular policy, namely the dynamics and financing of certain projects such as NGOs, including this youth news agency Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would really ask my colleagues and colleagues to support my amendment. This is no demagogy, but from this example from the resolution to today, I am in principle in favour of helping young people in some way. They're saying that they're our future, 67 let's let them be our present and they create with their own money that we're going to give them their own projects. They have ideas, but what good are ideas to you if you don't have financial resources? I think that if we are honest that this really, today is a good opportunity for us to support this amendment and it doesn't matter if I filed it to forget the same moment all I said, if you would get support, of course it will be our common contribution to the development of youth policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to get that kind of support. If I do not receive support for this amendment and, of course, some other amendments that are good, which I will support as an MP, my support for the budget will ultimately be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22281	Thank you. A colleague of Križanović asked for a word
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22282	I thank Mr. Chairman, let me make it very brief, I only have one amendment to clarify it. I am glad that my colleague Avdić spoke, and I spoke in the previous budget debate about two items that I really think are eye-lashing and this is about how the budget was conceived. It is therefore an item of the contracted and other specific obligations. That's his name. Let me remind you that the item last year amounted to 9 million and 900 thousand, that the user's request was 22 million and 850,000 and is now proposed in the 18 million and 200 thousand budgets. You see, unfortunately, man doesn't have the power to analytically get into this problem from user to user, to assess the reality of this, but it's really in my opinion indicative that this is about one thing really to say to non-domestic distribution, first of all this state money, and then later, I'm convinced and irrational spending. That is why I have proposed an amendment which, with this amount to be reduced by 2 million and which should be transferred for the production of the project documentation, the study plan etc. for the highway to Corridor Vc. To take advantage of the opportunity, and I won't repeat it, I was also talking about abnormally high lease costs for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Turns out our entire state is a tenant, 14 million are planned and more than 14 million in expenses, just for the point. Since it is impossible to make a rational amendment to this, because it is the institutions that are located in such spaces, I, Mr. Chairman of the previous session, have made a proposal for a conclusion, unless it is active, I will re-repeat it and turn it over to you with a request that the House declares the act. And that conclusion is about making a commitment to oblige the Council of Ministers to make a plan within three months, a rational plan to cut these costs, at least for next year. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22283	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Živković answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22284	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say something about the amendment I have submitted. In fact, a possible year for the 2009 census has been mentioned here. According to the law that our neighbours were working on, let's say, Croatia in particular, the funds were planned in three years. So years before the election, years of elections, or years of census and 68 years after the census. According to that law, if we were to operate like that, we don't know what our statistical agency is going to do yet. Namely, this law, which I have proposed here in Parliament, was not accepted by the assembly majority. As a result, these funds would turn out to be planned only for the 2008, 2009 and 2010 budget. I suggested in this law, since Bosnia and Herzegovina is a poor country, that they still divide it into four years. According to this law only in 2007, if we are talking about 2009 it would be necessary to plan these funds. Given that there is a possibility in the Rules of Procedure when there are several amendments on one issue, and here they are about what I have spoken more and there is the possibility of a compromise on this matter, I suggest that after discussions on amendments you give a 15-minute break to try to agree on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22285	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22286	Well, you see, I feel the need to comment in a few sentences. Of course, we are now in a position to determine these amendments and I want to, since it's dozens of amendments, I want to say two three sentences. Not to get the wrong impression. Many and most amendments contain good intentions for people, etc. Very much to say the acceptable intentions of people towards youth, according to agriculture, according to the development of production, towards political parties etc. etc. But when you look at where it's coming from, where it's coming from, except for a few examples that have one other kind of source, mostly everything, I'm going to use one bad expression to maybe hit institutions. So let's say that if you take down 3 million from the Indirect Taxation Authority, you suggest you take down 3 million, and you don't make sure that this structure is going to be exposed in some way, that's a little bit of a problem. If you take down 2, 3, or 5 million, or 10 million from the defense, not checking what the defense function means. It is very difficult for such a kind of amendment to be identified. So I just wanted to say there's another side of the medal. The sitting side has very good intentions, we have great demands, and on the other hand we are trying to take off the functions that we have in some way established in the unique misery. And we will really make sure that we do not endanger ourselves by determining amendments, not to endanger institutions, or structures that are difficult to establish. Let's say the reserve. If you add how many amendments were attacked and attacked on the reserve, you'll see that those reserves are gone. How to support when you have a legal category in the Budget Implementation Act that you must have reserves etc. I just wanted to say and explain that someone not supporting one of our amendments will be for the reason that the basic principles and the balances achieved within the users of the budget are not disrupting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22287	Thank you. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? There isn't. 69 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving you 10 minutes to agree on what my colleague Živković was talking about and I'm asking the finance minister to get involved so we can. Here, we can keep working. I ask the MPs to take their seats. We tried to take this break and see if we could get any closer on these amendments, and I would ask my colleague Živković, as he asked for a break to say where possible, whether it is possible and how we can get out in order to get the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in another reading. Comrade Živković, here you go. I ask the Members to follow the debate
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22288	We used the break to consult and I can say that for the first time, for the first time, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry expressed both will and desire. I consider it a political gesture, that a single item such as the list of populations is currently placed in the Budget, and my amendment, according to these consultations, should read. In Article 3(2), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Allocation of revenue to budget users, point 37. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Agency, under the 3rd programme of special purposes, is already in place, meaning that the project task for the methodology for starting up activities on the census is 500,000 KM. At the same time in Chapter II, indirect reserve transfers of the 1st current reserve are reduced by that amount and amounts to 4,120.000 KM, thereby not jeopardising the budget reserve.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22289	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's an agreement, it's what was possible to achieve, and I'd like to ask you to come forward with me on this amendment, which is. Will you conduct the debate? You will. A colleague, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22290	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I think you, Mr. Chairman, have violated the Rules of Procedure and you have drastically violated it. Namely, the member you're referring to is 94. Thus, as the debate begins, the chair of the consultation with the vice-president will allow, or respect new amendments, only in the following cases, and then I assume that you think of case b) when trying to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held. First, have you reached agreement with the deputies? To be honest, I'm asking the deputies to make a statement about it. So, did you achieve that consent?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22291	We did, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22292	Secondly, what suggestions have you agreed on when it comes to the list? 70
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22293	Everyone who was tied to the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22294	Have you agreed on my amendment and Mr. Živkov's amendment, which was five million and his, which was five million, five and a half and agreed on 500,000? So, you've agreed to my amendment, not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22295	Well, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. When there are more amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22296	You can only open the possibility, Mr. Chairman, not agree. Just open the possibility for new amendments, and you can't match them. You can't do business like that, I'm afraid. Second or third, this shows what we knew of course that the burden of position was difficult. This time four million, so from 4.5 you fall to 500. I, indeed, congratulate you on your success, especially on the formulation of these funds. Thank Bog some other assembly will have a report on the Budget account and have the opportunity to comment on how this item has been spent and why it has been spent. As for the amendment itself, as Mr Živković said with what dynamics, respecting that we are a poor country with 4.5 million, we will make a list, with this dynamic we will execute it in the next 50 years and, of course, it is not bad, given that the mood is both in this Parliament and in the Council of Ministers. I'm disappointed with the alignment of my amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22297	I thank Mr. Novaković, the word has been given by the chairman of the House, Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22298	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, namely, I've been thinking about whether it's worth reporting for the discussion at all, and I have no intention of encouraging anyone to replicate. There can be many objections to this Budget, as well as to all other budgets, there are many conundrums that we can influence and cannot influence, too, we are all aware of. Today, we can not accept the Budget without adopting it in the same terms or minor changes in a month, and the question is whether we will adopt the Budget and thus send messages so that there is not much conditioning and that the budgets of entities and social programmes and all that concerns the common man in Bosnia and Herzegovina are adopted. I must say, I am not speaking on behalf of the position or opposition, but I am speaking on behalf of the political party, which is determined to look forward to a step forward and I wish that there could be drastic changes to this budget, which my colleague Belkić was talking about, but it is not possible and 71 I have talked to the minister and all the other amendments and wherever there was an opportunity to see them, I am in order to make that correction. Barely, therefore, in the interview, it was possible not to violate the required part of the mandatory reservation, but I must say as a political party, which advocates the census, not for SNSD, not only for the sake of the Srbin in BiH, but for all citizens in BiH, that it is good to move forward with the reservation of these funds. It would not be good, I warn today that debates are being held whether Budget will fall for this or that entity, this or that political party. It would be good if we could get our strengths together today and adopt the Budget. I've been trying to find a compromise all day to get to Budget State institutions. I know that Mr. Novaković is not satisfied with the way it was harmonised, because he asked 4.5 million, but it is not possible, therefore, to reach a compromise. We also asked for 5 million and, behold, we agreed that only 500,000 is possible, so here is the minister, who is on behalf of the promoter. There is, therefore, that possibility to be seen. I beg you, therefore, now there is only a possibility. I know that there are satisfied and there are dissatisfactions and that the result of the vote will be one that will verify the agreement or not. It's impossible. I wish it could have been an agreement that would satisfy everyone. Here, I'm not, so I'm not inviting anyone to the line, I'm not inviting anyone, I find the proposal less important to him, but for me, maybe the most important thing is to get to Budget today. It's even more important than this 500,000 I have to be honest. And, I must say, by chance, my colleagues said I couldn't do it either, and I wouldn't suggest that the budget be rejected. All I care about is whether it's 100-500 or five million, it's a matter of the Agency's willingness to withdraw those funds in this year and prepare the census. So, I want to talk to you real. On the side of what I wish for, what is the wish of Nikola Špirić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22299	I thank Mr. Špirić, the word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, as far as I can see, the replica is at stake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22300	Mr. Chairman, I didn't get an answer to the question whether you broke the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22301	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22302	So you can't say it yourself, you have to deal with your colleagues. I would like Mr. Džaferović to say that you did not violate as a lawyer to say that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Please allow Mr. Džaferović to agree with you that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure. The College of Interprets Rules of Procedure. I ask the College to interpret that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken before I continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22303	We interpreted it. I'm begging you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22304	Mr. Džaferović, this is in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22305	We didn't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22306	Thank you. Since we haven't broken the Rules of Procedure and since everything has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I just want to correct one quote. It wasn't you, Mr. Špirić, who asked for a compromise on Budget. It was the reason you voted for Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22307	Well, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22308	Well, the reason is strong enough to support him. I, indeed, think that you have achieved great success with this amendment, so, indeed, great success. I think you've allowed this country with this amendment to move forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22309	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Let's go make a statement about the amendments. A kolega of Živković, therefore, the amendment on which we reached an agreement reads. In Article 3(2) of Part 3 of the budget user revenue allocation, point 37. BiH Statistics Agency below 3. The special purpose programme item 3 is 500,000 marks. At the same time chapter under II The indirect transfer 1 of the reserves below the 1st current reserve is reduced by the same amount and amounts to 4,120.000 marks. Prepare to vote. Here you go, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22310	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Article 96 point 2. It's the Rules of Procedure. The proposed amendments, which relate to the same member, will be discussed and voted, starting with those that involve a greater modification of the members, which will be decided by the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22311	Well, here, this is more of a modification.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22312	Since the major modification is probably five million over 500,000, you are obliged to put my amendment to the vote first, and then Mr. Živković's amendment. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22313	I beg of you, we'll vote on both of you, but we'll vote on what we've achieved agreement on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22314	Business intervention. You can't vote. You have to give the amendments in order. This is one in a series of amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22315	We'll make a statement about everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22316	Who did you agree with?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22317	Consent, prepare to vote on this amendment. Vote now. Well, I read it. Here, a break of 15 minutes and I'm asking the service to print out this amendment. We had consultations and agreed to declare the order of amendments, as they were delivered. [[PAUZA]] Novaković asked for a word. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22318	...wanted a break, so it's common to offer me a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22320	I'm trying to, I'm really trying really hard today's business opportunity for you to do what you've done. In fact, Mr. Živković didn't propose an amendment at all, for the first time, an amendment that agreed with the way you have now proposed it. So this was an amendment adopted by the commission, worth 100,000 KM, on Mr Lagumdžija's proposal and you were practically acting on the amendment. So you acted on the amendment, and you couldn't use it, so you couldn't use Article 94, and you couldn't deliver such an amendment after 48 hours. So you were obliged to deliver it 48 hours before the session. You delivered him during the debate. You were the only one who could, that amendment Mr. Živković gave, just inspect the figure from 4.5 million to 500 grand, and that would be correct, and then it could serve you, then you could be served by Article 94. In this variant, you simply cannot do this in this way, or you are violating the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if I've made myself clear. You could only, since it was an increase from 100,000 to 500,000, only you could act as an amendment to the already adopted amendment, which is then 48 hours before the beginning of the session. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22321	Thank you. Dr Živković. To bring up the debate, because we've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22322	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we probably all know what this is practically about, let's just say, the regulations that oblige us to do in this House of Representatives are something we've done. Back in the three years, it wasn't a problem, and now that it's done today, it's a problem. We probably also know the reasons why it is and, to me, he regretted that the three years were not respected and what was said on this side. In fact, article 94, if you're a good interpreter, and I think it's a good interpretation, attitude 3 mentions new amendments. What you don't read is another thing. He says, after the debate begins, chairing consultations with the vice-president, which has been done, respecting new amendments and in cases under b) when trying to bring together two or more proposals on which the debate is being held, and agreeing, I must tell you, I don't know if the SDS Club should have had a written invitation to bring the amendments into line. We didn't go out there in clubs or offices, we stood here and agreed on those amendments. Why didn't you come to agree with us on these amendments, and I understand that, but the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. This has not been broken by the Rules of Procedure, as neither has the Rules of Procedure been broken nor with this new amendment, since this allows 94. I think the situation is quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22323	Thank you. I think we've exhausted the debate. The only option that remains available to me, since I am holding this session to say that we are pleading in order on the amendments as they have come. So, SDS, SDA, then nine amendments to Dr. Lagumdžija, etc. I pray, if there are those, there is only one amendment for which there is a factual consent here. These others are all going to a plea. You'll get the word, there's no problem, I'm just trying to explain. We're going to make a statement about every amendment, just ask clubs, if there are clubs who want to give up the amendment, knowing how it's going to be, I'm asking them to take advantage of their right. If there are such, if not, then we will plead from amendments to amendments, from club to club. What gets consent becomes the text of the law, which does not get will not become the text of the law and cannot be otherwise. Here you go, colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22324	Since the College interprets the Rules of Procedure and neither I nor Mr Živković, I ask the College to interpret this amendment, whether it is an amendment to the adopted amendment by the Commission or a new amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22325	It's about a new one. Here, let's say the amendment. The college's agreed. The college has agreed. Please, let's go plead. I think they've exhausted all possibilities. I beg you, we're all tired, try to understand me. I have to listen to all of you and look for some kind of active way out, which will support most of you to do the job. 75 So, we plead, is there anyone who gives up the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22326	Here, on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I will declare that we are giving up our amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22327	Thank you. So, the Party of Democratic Action is giving up the amendment. Is there anyone else to give up the amendment, to contribute? There's no one here. Thank you. The SDS MPs' club has eight amendments. Prepare to vote on amendment number and SDS Club. Vote now. So, for 9, versus 20, abstentions 6. Amendments and Club Members of the SDS were not accepted. Prepare to vote for Amendment II of the SDS Parliament Club. Vote now. So, for 9, versus 20, abstentions 6. I konstatuj Amendment II not supported. Amendment III vote now. So, for 9, versus 20, abstentions 7.. I konstatuj that Amendment III has not been adopted. Amendment number IV Vote now. For nine, against 21, six abstentions. I find Amendment IV not accepted. Amendment to the SDS. So for 10, versus 21, abstention 4.. I konstatuj Amendment V not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment VI Vote now. For 11, versus 25, abstention... not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment VII Vote now. For 13, v. 18, abstention 3. amandman vi is not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment VIII of the SDS. Vote now. So for 10, v. 18, abstention 7. amandman vi is not accepted by the SDS. That concludes the vote on the SDS amendments. The SDA club quit. We're moving on to SNSD. Here's a colleague of Novaković. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22328	...the vote, especially about Amendment V.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22329	You'll get a list of service whatever you're looking for, you should get as much as the other MPs. We're pleading on the SNSD amendment. It's this new amendment that we agreed with the ministry. It's a harmonised amendment. Vote now. So, for 20, against 3 abstentions, 6 abstentions / five abstentions/ I find that we have a majority and an entity majority, that the amendment of the SNSD Club has been accepted. We're moving on to a statement on Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendments. Prepare to vote on the amendment and Dr. Lagumdzija. Vote now. For 9, versus 21, abstention 5. Amendment I is not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment II to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Vote now. For 11, versus 19, abstention 5. I konstatovati Amendment II not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment III to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Can I have some seriousness, please? Vote now. So, for 11, v. 18, abstention 6. Amendment III is not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment IV to Dr Lagumdzija. Vote now. For 12, versus 17, four abstentions. No amendment IV has been accepted either. Prepare to vote on Amendment V. Vote now. So for 13, versus 21, abstention 2. Amendment V is not accepted either. Prepare to vote on the VI amendment, Dr Lagumdžija. Vote now. For 14, versus 19, no one abstention. Therefore, no amendment VI has been accepted either. Prepare to vote on Amendment VII. Vote now. So for 14, versus 21, abstention 1. Therefore, amendment VII was not accepted either. Prepare to vote on Amendment vi to dr Lagumdžija. Vote now. For 15, versus 19, abstention 2. Amendment VIII not accepted either. 77 Prepare to vote on the IX amendment of Dr Lagumdzija. Vote now. So for 9, versus 21, abstention 1. I konstatuj that Amendment IX to dr Lagumdžija was not accepted, so we gained the conditions to move to a statement on Mr Miloš Jovanović's amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22330	You have X and XI.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22331	I only have nine letters with me. So, get ready to vote on the amendment to Dr. Lagumdzija. Vote now. For 11, versus 20, abstention 3. Even Amendment X has not been accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment XI to Dr Lagumdzija. Vote now. So for 14, versus 20, abstention 2. I also konstatuj Amendment XI not accepted. So, no 11 amendments have been accepted by Dr. Lagumdžija. We move on to a statement on Miloš Jovanović's amendments. Prepare to vote on the amendment and Mr. Miloš. Vote now. For 10, versus 20, abstention 4. The amendment and Mr. Jovanović did not pass. Prepare to vote on Amendment II. Vote now. For 10, versus 17, no one abstention. Mr Jovanović's amendment was not accepted. Prepare to vote on amendment III to Mr Jovanović. Vote now. For 11, versus 19, abstention 4. amandman III not accepted. Prepare to vote on amendment IV to Mr Jovanović. Vote now. For 12, against 18, 6 abstentions and amendment IV, Mr Jovanović was not accepted. Prepare to vote on amendment V, Mr Jovanović. Vote now. for 12, versus 7, abstention 4.. I also konstatovati Amendment V to Mr Miloš Jovanović not accepted. We have thus obtained the conditions to move on to Mr. Joza Križanović's amendments. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 14, versus 17, abstention 2.. I konstatovati Mr. Joza Križanović's amendment not accepted. 78 We move to a vote on Mr Tihomir Gligorić's amendment. Vote now. So for 13, against 16, abstentions 6.. I konstatovati that Mr Tihomir Gligorić's amendment has not been accepted, so we have exhausted the possibility of voting on amendments. Now we declare the Budget in the second reading. You'll get it from the service, you don't have to worry. So we're going to vote in the second round on Budget as a whole. Vote now. For 26, no one abstentions against 10. So we have the majority and the entity majority. I find that we have accepted the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2006 and thus gained the opportunity to move to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. The draft law on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2006 has also been postponed at the 72nd session to discuss the proposal for a law on the implementation of the Budget. We've received a new report from the committee in charge. Four amendments were adopted by the Commission on the draft law. In the plenary phase of the amendment, MPs can defend: Muhamed Moranjkić two and Dušanka Majkić one amendment. We're discussing the law in the first reading. We're opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief, it's about principles. In my view, the principle of planning and distribution of the budget reserve is, under number 1, and, normally, I note, because there are currently no such qualified users, and in particular there is no logic or purpose in this case to limit the lower limits, any amounts in the reserve, regardless of the users, otherwise the reserve and the meaning of its existence, receives other forms and purposes, including the very meaning of the existence of the budget reserve. My second amendment is related again to one principle, which is the principle of restructuring expenditure by budget users. Because it allows for how various machinations and manipulations and abuses with redistribution by budget users are set up, and this can be seen from every audit report, and in the best case scenario, this article is given amnesty to all those budget users, who are unseriously and irresponsiblely planning their consumption, as budgetary users, which is simply unacceptable, and this would continue to continue, and even legalize even this member. That's why I've made these two amendments to fix it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22333	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We decide the law in the first reading, the principles. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I figure we're 27 votes against, six against, no one abstentions. They accepted the draft law implementing the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2006 in the first reading. 79 I ask the question of who is in order to conduct the debate in the second reading, since we only have two MPs with amendments who want to defend at this stage. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 29, versus 5, abstention 2.. I konstatovati that we have accepted the proposal to declare this law and move on to another reading of this law. I'm opening a discussion in another reading. Who answers the word. A colleague, Moranjkić, has already explained his amendments. Ms. Dušanka Majkić, because the only applicants are the amendments in phase two, in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22334	... the amendment adopted, but I thought it would be good to think about this amendment, so I ran it again, for the simple reason that it is not only my request, but also the position of the BiH Financial Audit Office, which states that frequent requests for redistribution of funds within the available budget items are reduced wage expenditure, therefore, due to unfulfilled planned employment, these funds have been transferred, therefore, to purchase cars and so on. That's why I thought this amendment, which, I, I, I really couldn't speak in such an atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22335	I'm asking you to listen to your colleague. Go on, fellow Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22336	Therefore, the amendment relating to the budget user's expenditure restructuring cannot exceed 10% of its total approved budget, without the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I don't see why these joint institutions wouldn't be forced to take care of how they plan and behave when it comes to budget reserves. I'd like the minister to eventually explain whether there's a possibility of meeting this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22337	Thank you, that's good, only if fellow MPs support it. Who's next to the word? A kolega of Novaković, then Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22338	Well, Mr. Chairman, this amendment cannot be the subject of a plea, since it did not come 48 hours before the beginning of the session. Namely, there's a seal here that says 13.2.2006. So, it is the seal of the Parliamentary Assembly and according to what my friend Zorić would say, this amendment cannot be the subject of a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22339	I thank my colleague Novaković. Ljilja Milićević, then just a little colleague of Majkić's, we'll determine everything. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22340	I thank Mr Špirić, in fact, for the question Mr. Novaković has asked, here is the actual number of protocols and February 13th. It was a matter of the Rules of Procedure, so the amendment didn't arrive on time in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22341	Please, since the amendment was sent by fax on Sunday, it was received here on Sunday, but it had to be protocold on Monday, because the Parliamentary Assembly is not working on Sundays. I have an exact document, so he's been filed business 24 hours earlier, so don't make a problem about it. Please, she's received, please, a little patience and seriousness. I think it's unnecessarily complicated this way, but if we have a Home Secretary who shows it, I have no reason to inform you except how I was informed. Eh, now can we interpret that it's arrived on time or didn't decide it's home. Here's a colleague of Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22342	I expect that the College, as an interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, will interpret this member, therefore, whether this amendment arrived on time, just to remind myself, that he arrived at 10 and 45, and that the session began at 10.00.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22343	I beg you, look what's going on. We in college, I beg you, see what's the matter. We at the College have the agreement that the amendment came on time. The second thing is that one of the members of the College will declare the amendment. So, please, Ljilja Milićević asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22344	It says really 10 and 45 right here. I don't know what time it is with you right now and where you're in the time zone, but I think we live in the same country and we work under the same laws. Fax, Mr. Špirić on February 12th 10th and 45th.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22345	I suggest we not discuss this amendment and not plead for 45 minutes. I ask Dušanka Majkić, a colleague from my party to withdraw the amendment. Thank you. Well, we're a party that understands. Which means 45 minutes. We can count to 48 hours. Please, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate. We declare the amendments of our colleagues, Moranjkić. Prepare to vote on Mr. Moranjkić's amendment. Vote now. For 16, versus 14, abstention 5. There's no entity majority of either. There's RS, there's no Federation. Are we gonna get along right now? Let's do it again right now. There's no consent. 81 Declar in the second round. Whoever's against the Federation, vote only who's against it. It's got to be two-thirds, get ready to vote. Vote now. Amendment accepted. So, against 13, I find that the amendment of my colleague Moranjkić's number I accepted and became an integral part of the text of the Law. Prepare to vote on Amendment II. Vote now. For 15, versus 16, abstention 3.. I konstatuj that Amendment II has not been accepted and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have obtained the conditions to declare the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I realize that with 29 votes in favour of, 6 against, no one abstention, we have adopted the Bill on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2006, and thus we move to the 9th point of the agenda. I would like to thank all those who have contributed, the resolute minister, who defended the Budget proposal and the Bill's proposal in the context of this debate. We're going to the 9th point. Ad.9.The draft law on the BiH Information Society Agency, first reading, is the Council of Ministers' proposal for this law. The parliamentary procedure was delivered on 21 January 2005. He was Razmtran in a regular procedure. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the Bill's proposal on 8 July 2005. The competent commission on two occasions requested an extension of the deadline for considering this legislative proposal for the first time on 16.9 and the second time on the 7th of 12.12.2005. We received a report from the committee responsible on 27 January 2006. You saw the Commission adopt 11 amendments. In the plenary phase, we did not receive any amendments, but ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the conclusion of the Extended College, which also discussed this, along with a natural part of the objections and suggestions and was reached, therefore, a consensus in the Extended College that this Commission report is being recommended, with the Commission sitting with the Council of Ministers and to see whether amendments, which have become an integral part of the text of the law, have derivated the principles of the law and whether they comply with European standards. So I suggest we not have a debate but stick to this conclusion and have it until the next session, so we can put it on the agenda of the next session. Do you agree? Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's possible to be unanimous. So, for 34, against 1 and 1 abstention. So, we've accepted this conclusion from the Expansive College. 82 We move to the 10th point of the agenda Ad.10. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH, first reading, MP Nikola Špirić This legislative proposal was submitted in a parliamentary procedure on 12 October 2005, with a request for consideration under Rule 105. Rules of Procedure. At the 69th session of the House, he did not support an emergency procedure request, so the bill is considered in the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the Bill's proposal on 22 November 2005. On 31 January 2006, the respective Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report on the proposal for this law. You saw the Commission find that there were no amendments, and that most of the votes supported the principles and unanimously adopted the text of this law. We're in first reading and I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and calling for you to make a statement on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Vote now. So, I find that with 33 votes for, no one against and no one abstention, we have adopted the draft law amending the Law on Freedom of Information in BiH in the first reading, Proposer Nikola Špirić. I'm asking a question, since there were no amendments to who it was so we could move on to another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I realize that with 35 votes in favour, we unanimously accepted the proposal to discuss this law in a second reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. In conclusion, I call on you to plead on this law in the second reading. Vote now. So, I find that with 31 votes, no one against and no one abstention, so we unanimously accepted the proposal for a law amending the law on freedom of access to information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer Nikola Špirić, and thus obtained the conditions to move to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, proposed by MP Muhamed Moranjkić, is the first reading of this law in the parliamentary procedure since 15 September 2005. At the 66th session, a request for an emergency procedure was adopted, as referred to in Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 30 September. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. On 28 November 2005, the Commission submitted a report, which concluded that no amendments had been made to the proposal for a law and that the Commission had accepted the principles but had not adopted the draft law. At the 71st session, we had a draft law on the agenda with a report from the competent commission, which was therefore negative. The House did not adopt the Commission's report, so 83 further procedures were continued. A new report by the Commission on finance and budget, we received on 1 February 2006. You have seen, this time the Commission unanimously supported the text of the bill. So we're in first reading and I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 34 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, we have adopted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, Proposer Muhamed Moranjkić in his first reading. Since there have been no amendments, I invite you to plead to conduct the debate in another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 35 votes for, no one against and no one abstention, therefore, we unanimously accepted the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, proposed by MP Muhamed Moranjkić. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who answers the word. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 35 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions, so we unanimously passed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of Ambassador Muhamed Mranjkić. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, with a report by the Commission on Finance and the Budget of Kolega Lagumdžija, submitted the proposal of this law on 9 December 2005, with a request for an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. At the 71st session, the proposal was not adopted, so it is under regular procedure. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on 28 December 2006. The financial and budget committee's report was received on 1 February 2006. The Commission did not accept the text of the law. We have a situation where the Commission's report is negative, which means that we are discussing and voting on the Commission's report. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Comrade Križanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22346	I'd like to ask you respected colleagues and colleagues, since the promoter isn't here right now, I've heard from him, but he's almost entering the building, if he's understanding, to wait five or six minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22347	Are you looking for a break? 84
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22348	Break 10 to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22349	Don't be 10 - 15, ask how much. I'm begging you, we've been here all day, the promoter. We can do 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22350	I know my rights, here's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22351	10 minutes of breaks at the request of the SDP Club, ...didn't last long, they know our breaks last, we have a proposal to Dr. Lagumdžija. [[PAUZA]] So, at the 12th point, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value, with the Commission's report on Finance and Budget, proposed by Dr Lagumdžija. Who's answering for a word? Dr Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22352	Mr. Chairman, I would ask that the President of the Commission give first as a report that I would not, and then I would be obvious, so it was before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22353	So, first Ljiljana Milićević to be first shown about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22354	We delivered a written report. We have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act by Mr Lagumdžija's promoter. You know that this law has been proposed under the second procedure and has gone into the regular procedure and order as envisaged has come to the Commission for Finance and Budget. This is actually what we wrote about how things are. It's not the first time we've had a proposal like this on the agenda and it won't be the last. We have a proposal like this in a regular procedure that's about to arrive. So this is where we wrote what we consider an explanation and we called in, in fact, to the conclusion of this home, which we all committed to the administration together to 90 days after the introduction of the VAT when we discussed this in December. So that's when we said that after three months we expect a detailed report on the effects and that we will then discuss any change. As for tax rates, rate numbers, rate heights and all that. I don't have anything extra.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22355	Thank you, colleague Milićević. Was that enough? There's no one here. Dr Lagumdžija, go ahead. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22356	I thank Mr. Chairman, I call on my colleagues and colleagues, members of the House of Representatives, to reject the Commission's report in accordance with our earlier conclusions and thus allow this law to receive a passing assessment. In fact, you could see from the report that the Commission unanimously supported the principles of the bill's proposal, which means that the less we know that VAT is, in addition to being a good method, that all first analyses say that, unfortunately, there have been a lot of black forecasts. There's no need to say it again, you know that less. Also, what Mrs Milićević said, that within 90 days, this should be done. I would just remind you that within 15 days we have an obligation to have the Council of Ministers give us that analysis, given the speed we're going. If we are, indeed, serious and we want the Council of Ministers, indeed, to propose, on the basis of this analysis, appropriate legislative changes, then we will, today, practically refuse to give the Commission's report and thus give it back to the Commission, as this is already going on, in the next 15 days when it gets this analysis from the Council of Ministers, which we look forward to. That is, take the suggestion of a conclusion, not now said for three months. I remember, I want to see, you can look at Parliament's conclusion and you'll see that in the beginning, after two months we expect Parliament to give us all one thing from the Board of Directors. So in 15 days, we need to have indicators of them. If they refused me this report now, then this law would practically come before us, just somewhere when the Council of Ministers promised to do so. I really don't want to iron you with the analyses that we've done, everyone knows that VAT has hit the budgets of ordinary people, that social programs haven't yet, that, especially dramatically, they've collected drugs and, precisely, this law is going to introduce a zero rate just for basic life supplies and medicines. Basic life supplies: bread, milk, oil and medicines and aids needed for people with disabilities. So we're aware of just that in this law, to get the support of the House of Representatives and the new old opposition authorities and all of us, because unfortunately time has shown that we were right. I would also, Mr. Chairman, I would very much like to explain what this is about, but I have no one to talk to, because we know it very well here. It is clear to us here, and I hope that you will vote in line with what is well known to you, to support this law, by rejecting the Commission's report and, hopefully, the SDS will reject this commission's report. They were on a scale on the commission, because it was a period when they didn't know if they were the government or the opposition, and you knew, you stayed on the scale. The SDA knew that the government and they all supported the Commission's report, I thank BiH Foreigners and Beriz Belkić for supporting us and, if there are any of these from the Council of Ministers that something is unclear, we are prepared to respond, to give you exact indicators, and, I would also like to refer to you and thank our research centre from the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, which gave us a comparative analysis of the zero rate in the environment in the European Union countries and which is seen, in fact, that our council of ministers, when at least the VAT is concerned, is far from visible. Well, if there are any questions, I'm willing to answer them. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22357	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Novaković answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22358	I also want to thank Mr. Lagumdžija for this explanation. I think it's worth waiting for these 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22359	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Dr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22360	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we've talked a lot about this. We are really exhausted and I think we should support what Mr Lagumdžija said, namely we should vote against the Commission's report on finance and budget and thus allow this proposal by Mr Lagumdžija, followed by Križanović, to open the procedure and help our citizens. I am going to vote with a loud voice against the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22361	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22362	I'm sorry, just to remind you, at the 69th session, before the vote, let me just remind you, since some of them told me it wasn't true. At the 69th session, the last time we gave you a bill on amendments to the Tax Act on additional value, when, too, the Finance Commission rejected our law of Joza, Selima and me before the New Year, then I sought and proposed a conclusion and adopted the Parliamentary Assembly two conclusions. I'm not going to read to you first, because the first conclusion is that computer they're going to prepare everything so that a differentiated rate can be introduced by New Year's Eve, they're thanking Bog for preparing it, especially when I told them that I would give them a solution if they didn't know how to do it, because I understand it officially. The second conclusion was, I read. It is due to the BiH Council of Ministers, that by February 2006, at the latest, this is now, the most flexible interpretation, which is 15 days, informs the Parliamentary Assembly of the current and introduction of VAT, and the effects of the implementation of social programmes, with a full plan of activity by the end of the first half of 2006, including an assessment of the need for changing tax rates. So, the Council of Ministers, it should definitely come before us with this, no later than 15 days after our conclusion. So it's not April. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22363	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote on the Commission report. Vote now. Is someone looking for a repeat? Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 16, versus 15, abstention 1. So there's a general majority that doesn't have an ethnic majority. He doesn't have most of the RS, he's staying for a match. You'll be notified in a business period. I'm going to the 13th point. You can do why not, you'll get it. My voice was there. Ad.13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value, Proposer Jozo Križanović, with a report from the Finance and Budget Commission, we have the same situation as the previous point. So we're deciding on a report from the competent commission that's negative. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22364	I think my colleague Lagumdžija said what he said to me in the end remains for me to say, but I won't. Also, counterpart Milićević signed the same opinion before the Commission. Therefore, I will really spare you, in order to do more rational work. We can make it clear, with that, indeed, deeply convinced that, and I want to ask you that it would be good to leave this law in force in life, voting, of course, against the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22365	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Ljilja Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22366	My discussion concerns the proposal tabled by Mr Križanović, and it is also related to the Commission's previous reports. You see, there's no need to calculate and count the change now. It's about getting the conditions, that the law that we've referred to in the procedure, so it hasn't gone after 105 changes and additions to this, by the same proposings, as I remember it, comes right at the same time, so the Commission will then be able to really give an opinion based on the Management Board's report and, for that reason, I abstained. I had my own opinion on the Commission, which was not defined in the negative report, and I don't think I should apologize to anyone for that, because my story, as far as VAT and rate were concerned, has stood and stood since the beginning of the same story. But I have to tell my colleagues from the SDP, so in the ordinary procedure it comes to the agenda and the Commission and this home, except it will be confirmed, I hope that it will meet our request by the Council of Ministers and the Administration for indirect taxation with the analysis we have asked for, and I believe that we will all be able to competently determine ourselves according to any amendments to the Tax Act on additional value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22367	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. 88 I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now on the Commission's report. For 16, versus 13, abstention 1. So it has a majority, it doesn't have an entity majority. It's the same fate as the 13th point. Please deliver Dr. Lagumdžija listing, request. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH, with a report from the Joint Security Intelligence Commission on the work of the BiH Security Agency, provided the Council of Ministers' proposal on 12 December 2005, with a request to be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At the 71st session, Dom adopted a request for a procedure under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 21 December 2005. The Joint Security Intelligence Commission is responsible for overseeing the work of the BiH Security and Security Agency. We received a report from the committee responsible on 1 February 2006. You have seen the report, the Joint Commission has not accepted the principles of the proposed law and has found that the conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure on the bill have not been met. We at this point have a negative report from the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate on the report. Who's answering for a word? You have a written report. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22368	Actually, I don't want to talk about the report, but I'll do it very briefly. I was asking myself a question in time when it comes to OSI that it does not allow citizens or for scientific purposes to access certain structures, the archival structure, which it has, better tell which one is on its watch. In these amendments to the laws that we have received, which we have seen, what is the opinion of the committee responsible, I have expected, but I have found no trace of this initiative, or liberalisation of access to archival structure, which is indeed strange, not even the structure that is 60 years old or how old. I, therefore, will make myself clear, of course, on this Commission report. I suppose that will be the fate of this bill, but that is why I refer to the proposer, that, indeed, he is seriously considering the initiative and the demands of citizens, when it comes to accessing archival structures, in particular, which I mean, even for scientific purposes, and that is also making it impossible. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22369	Thank you. I just want to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's report was unanimous, that there was no revote. A kolega, Novaković, and a colleague, Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22370	...respective colleagues, enough from the very beginning, so any objections to this law. I must say that I have had two amendments, which have been struck, we can say essentially or in the essence of this law, and therefore I believe that the Commission has done well its part of the job, therefore, that practically this law must be done in a different way and put into parliamentary procedure, which is why the SDS Club will support the Commission's position, i.e. the Commission's report. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22371	Thank you. A colleague, Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22372	Well, you see, perhaps I should say, for the sake of public support, that is, to clarify the reasons why the Intelligence and Security Agency Supervisory Commission, I say, has returned this law to the Council of Ministers. First of all, it's because this agency has been given police authority. I've really talked before when we talked about Budget, that I don't know if anyone really wants to re-create a police state besides so many police, so we're also giving the obavještajno and Security Agency police powers. Furthermore, what should also be pointed out, I think one of the reasons why the Commission for the supervision of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency has been deprived of the law is the possibility to talk to candidates who are being admitted to the Agency, as well as one of the reasons provided for in the law in amendments to the Law, that all employees of the Intelligence and Security Agency should be given an unfettered working period. I mean, there's no need to repeat that there are a lot of administrative professions, maybe about 200 or so, and I think maybe some occupations and some jobs that are being done at the Agency to single out, set out to have an unfettered job, but certainly not for everyone. And, let me say, these were the basic reasons why the Agency's Labour Control Commission proposed as it suggested in its conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22373	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Dr Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22374	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry that we won't devote more time, I'm sorry, because this shows up as well as that debate from the beginning where this is going all together. We first had a report from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, not to the Intelligence and Security Agency, but to his report under the law he was to file, which he declared to be official secret and made it impossible for the public to participate. So you see how step by step goes. The police state isn't being made by a coup, but by the way we're present here today. First, the public is sent out of the O.R. when the chairman of the Council of Ministers here in this White Hall explains things that even little children know, so it creates mystics that they are very important, and then only that two things are done by the public, I suggest Mr. Chairman that Parliament not only rejects this law, or accepts the Commission's report, but we adopt one working conclusion that the Council of Ministers draws attention that it no longer does these things, that it no longer sends these things, and only two things that are. What they really wanted with this law, I'm only going to make two enclave examples of how the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who obviously liked being the head of spies, what he wanted with this law. 90 First, it is Minister, what you are looking at me so, exactly, this law that we have rejected is intended for OSA to be arrested, that is to say it is simplified and it has been rejected by the Commission. So, this law provides for us, the Council of Ministers, the question is, where do they get the right to come up with a proposal like this, and we had to discuss it today. That Intelligence has a warrant to arrest people. I mean, what Novaković would say, those leather coats that they didn't arrest either, but they sent others from other color leather coats, and they wanted everything in uniform coats. So, first, that he could arrest the Intelligence Service, and, drugi, so I insisted that we discuss this with regard to those famous laws of Parliament regarding the coup. They wanted to introduce a legal order to make it impossible for the Supervisory Commission to talk to people who are being admitted. They want them to be able to check us with spy methods, and we don't even have the right to have our parliamentary commission to... monitor to talk to those people who are being admitted. I mean, this is really a disaster and you know it very well. But fortunately we have a good commission to say to Žilić, and he's an expert on this, I see a smile being a man. Thank Bog, man expert. So, I would ask the Bospodin Chairman, if you will, I can formulate one working conclusion, but I would ask you in one manner, so consensually, that one working conclusion, to direct the Council of Ministers one message that they do not do such things, because this is not going anywhere but in the darkness that we want to forget.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22375	Thank you very much. The President of the dom, gospodin Špirić, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22376	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, I have been almost thinking about whether I should report for the debate. I must say that we, within this commission, have had serious debates and perhaps for the first time perhaps to draw such strong attention to all the things that may be important to the work of this agency. I don't think I agree with Mr. Lagumdžija that the Council of Ministers should write a letter not to send us such laws. A negative report by the Commission to oversee the work of the Intelligence Service is sufficient, and it was true that, in the principles of the law for OSA to get police powers, and when we passed the law, we were told that the only reason we adopted it was that it was not and it was true that an attempt to merge intelligence, military and civil, so that they lived in the same building, and that different budgets were, it was like one school, and two roofs, and it was, in my view, making circuss, one roof and two schools. It is true, too, that it went with the principles that they can detach people into other state bodies, I guess in the DKP network, so I look at what's like that jeweled stone, but it's a law that is crawling with a series of inaccuracies and opens opportunities for many abuses, speculations, and that's why I look forward to the Commission's height of the task and wrote this report to its parliament. I believe that other commissions have a serious approach and that this is a sufficient answer, law makers and the Council of Ministers and Intelligence, that the work committee is, the commission that will deal seriously with this work, and I assure you that this was the case in that commission, and I think it is enough today to accept the Commission's report and what I have the knowledge that already whoever was working on the law has already realized that such proposals cannot be addressed to Parliament or to the Commission, and therefore I am not in favour of conclusions, but 91 simply to accept the Commission's report, which we all agree is important and that it is good. This Commission report is not against either the Council of Ministers or the Intelligence Service. On the contrary, it is aimed at building a strong service, which is of interest to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We need to learn here that a negative report can mean much more support than a positive report, unless things are going the way they're supposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22377	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? dr Gligorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22378	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what you have said to Mr. Lagumdžija and you, Mr. Chairman, points out that within the commission you should and should also lead a certain debate or a matter of responsibility to carry out the people who work there, given that the obvious intentions they had and which they specifically presented in terms of amending and supplementing this law speak in favour of that there are some people who would like to create a police state. My suggestion is that within the commission, you've done this well so far, it's good that you've prevented these phenomena, which could, indeed, do great harm, which Professor Lagumdžija was talking about and it would be good, this is a good example of how the commission actually does its job well.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22379	I thank Mr. Gligorić. I don't think there should be a commission to investigate intentions, I think we should work seriously and reject laws, which we don't think are in line with standards, that would be enough for me. Dr Kunić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22380	...and as I agree with my predecessors, I would only add something new to this attempt. This is about creating a political police force. I want to tell you that political police are being created in BiH and that is the most dangerous thing. Police, similar to the leading political parties, are almost at all levels of government in BiH. And that's the most dangerous thing. That's what almost takes place at all levels so-called. Patronage system, a connected system that wants to keep under the control of the service system and the police, of course. It's dominant in entities, it's dominant at the state level. The question arises as to how many of these public service agencies, i.e. public administration agencies, have been formed to depolitise state services. I think they have a very small one and things are going exactly this way as they're going. I did not want to discuss today about the law, amendments and additions to the Freedom of Access Act. We adopted something today, which we're likely to change in a few months, because we're going to see that it's not applicable. We accepted the deadlines of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so rules on general administrative procedure in the Freedom of Information Act. That's what I said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, don't do it, because there should be shorter deadlines, not complicated procedures, not being listened, going on, I didn't want to do it today. I mean, in the end, the quality of the law, which is done, very bad, not only this one, but it's bad laws at all. Almost all laws don't have quality. If we don't have people, if we don't have 92 professional services, that's a different question. It seems to me that this finding is standing. Of course, with the predominance of politics in the selection of personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22381	Thank you. A colleague, Džaferović, asked for a word, so Mr Belkić, so Sipović, and yes, if it is possible to bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22382	That the Commission correctly assesses the content, etc. I'll cut it short. We had a report from the Commission, which pointed to everything that we talked about later, etc. And what happens now. Through the ongoing debate, we have somehow devalued the need for reform in this sector. Let me just remind you. We need to support reform in this sector and we need to support the construction of this service, but make sure it doesn't grow into what we don't want and our commission has already reacted, but let me remind you, what if it hadn't been for this reform. Let me remind you of the situation before this. What did we have? How many of us had service, what those services were doing, etc. So, don't devalue the need for reform and we should do it, but, of course, we make sure that they don't grow into something we don't. But not to appreciate the need for reform and the establishment of this service.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22383	Thank you. He's a colleague of Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22384	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I, in fact, did not repent that I gave up that Mr. Beriz Belkić spoke before me, because, indeed, he said the essence of what he was, in fact, what I wanted to say. I will, therefore, repeat what he said. We will meet at that time with the need to pass one of these laws, because we have to follow the reform in this very important and sensitive area, but on the other hand we will not be able to allow solutions, which are contained, among other things, and in the text that we have here and I think they were right that after we adopt the report of the Commission and practically reject this law and I will therefore vote for the Commission's report that this law cannot go through, that we suggest to the processor and the promoter, that this law must be fully in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and that there must be no provision, which may, at any time, be consistent with any act, concerning the protection of human rights. Because you're gonna let me have respected colleagues and colleagues, and I'm gonna use these, let's say, the most interesting members. So we're going to need reform. We're also building a military intelligence service and it has connections and it's part of this. There will be a need to prescribe certain benefits for people who work there, to edit work-legal status in a different way, and among other things, it is possible to transfer situations that are e.g. as described in Article 25 of this proposed text of the law, when it is said exclusively from the provisions of Article 1 of this Article, the Agency has special powers to bring and examine persons, and to verify and determine the identity of persons and things, where necessary in order to prevent the execution of direct terrorist acts or 93 actions, which directly threaten the lives of people or where the absence of action may lead to the escape of a person who has prepared or committed a serious crime against the security of BiH. Niko of us can object to such a provision. However, I don't know what led the promoter, let's say when he proposed Article 63a. and when it is said in point 2. The detained person shall be examined in the mother tongue or language which he understands, to the extent necessary, and shall inform of the reasons for the detention and at the same time teach that he is not obliged to give a statement or answer questions. And, now, look, there's no law on this. Here, I allow myself to know the Code of Criminal Procedure, because I've been doing this job. He says, during a person's interrogation, he doesn't have the right to defend himself or to communicate externally. This cannot stand in the law behind which the BiH Parliament will stand or, further. The procedure for the detention, testing and verification of the identity of persons and things prescribed by this law shall be more detailedly governed by the rules adopted by the Director-General of the Agency, under... the approval of the Council of Ministers of BiH. No, these procedures are prescribed by the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm trying to be extremely correct and extremely serious. I gave these two examples on purpose. One case, which is likely to be necessary, and I have presented two examples that cannot in any way be the content of this law and this reform, and I wanted for a stenogram that is likely to be delivered to the people who are working on preparing this law here for a pay phone and to explain the reasons why I am against this law and which is why I will vote in favour of the neighbour's report. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22385	Thank you. I'd like to ask my colleague, Sipović, to bring the debate to an end. The Commission's report is clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22386	Chairman, I just want to say as an MP, I feel the need to commend the affirmative work of this committee, as the working body of this home, so that it is an example to other committees and to help this home and to make legal decisions, to hope for all the people and citizens and democracy. What Mr. Džaferović said, the vice president of this esteemed home, gave us such a striking impression, because the reasons why Mr. Jaferovic as a man and as an MP has led us to accept the Commission's report and has mentioned the decisions very well, i.e. the provisions of the European Convention, and I think in everything I agree with this attitude, and whether it should be reformed by this agency in order to train it, material and technical assistance, it is undeniable and to be at the level of other civilized intelligence services. That's my reason for handling the reasons. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22387	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. No Niko's answered again. I'm closing the debate and putting the commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 32 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, a report by the competent commission was adopted. So the law has fallen and we propose to the Proposer to take care of the tones of today's debate and to offer better principles and better law and move on to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH on 2 February, we received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the law at this point. Unfortunately, the joint commission has not reached agreement. Item 2 of Article 100. The rules of procedure of this house are prescribed as follows. If the Joint Commission fails to reach an agreement, or if both homes fail to adopt its proposal, the bill is considered rejected. The chairman will inform the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we have not reached the Ombudsmen law, because no agreement has been reached. So, all I have to do is inform the House and by doing so, the word was asked by Mr. Raguž, so Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22388	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, the clear procedure here is what we now have, so just to be aware of this Joint Commission report, but let me say, once, let's say one six months least participated in trying to pass this law, I can't say at least two sentences. So it is clear that in this internal structure and technology that we have, it is not easy to come up with new solutions at BiH level and I understand, therefore, that complexity and particular interests are, however, I cannot understand that, when an amendment is put on the table and one reasonable dimension is shown to find a compromise, that on the committee, the Joint Commission is all ignored and it is not important now whether amendments were mine or someone else's, but it is really important that this is one of the last obligations that we, as a state, have before the Council of Europe, and that every time we come to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we are at the opportunity to listen to lessons constantly why we do not. And, here, by not calling anyone, we keep repeating the situation, that we are not able in a transparent way to express our own views, but through the procedure we play double-game and simply lose the law. I, therefore, believe that here they will lose and, first of all, the institution, secondly even entity institutions, which may have lobbyed for some variants of these solutions, which they will not go through, and will primarily lose citizens and this country because there will be no one institution, which is a post-war commitment, which through this law has found form, that it unites and hypnotises this whole situation and I would invite us all, therefore, to force us to reach the formula in the next two or three months and to the new law. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22389	I thank my colleague Raguž and I agree with his grades. But we can't open the debate, but we have a duty. Now we can all get up and say it's our duty to get to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22390	I won't discuss it like that, clearly the law fell after what we swallowed and said it was an institution of three persons etc. You have to tell me why he fell. What's the point? As long as we've agreed to what he's fallen for. I understood he fell because we couldn't settle, guess how long the mandate lasted. So we should face it. Because of someone's six months, half a year, year, the law has fallen. Eight or nine people made this parliament hostage, instead of saying the deadline, none of them will be one of those who treats the law that way, and that's why the law fell, because of those 8-10 people and we were their hostages. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22391	Thank you. I agree that the reasons why the law fell and tried itself, believe me, had dozens of conversations, unfortunately, today we have to realize what we are saying and put all together to make an additional effort to get to the law, which will comply with the standard and, here, if nothing to renew the law without being the reason why the law is not in line. My kolegica Perkanović, but let's not call the hearing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22392	I'll just look back on Mr. Raguž's discussion for a little while. I, too, would be absolutely satisfied if I were him, given that all his amendments were adopted, and as far as Mr Belkić's discussion is concerned, because it is a matter of mandate alone. It is that the law must be in line with existing laws. The new law cannot violate existing laws. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22393	Mr. Avić, if I may ask, the idea is to get to the law and adopt it. All the other ideas came in handy.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22394	That's right, Mr. Chairman. So it's not inadmissible when we're in situations like this, to come back again and try to go into further alignment. We don't have anything else, so can we get back to the commission, the joint commission, and ask them to exhaust all possibilities, compromises and pass the law? I'm asking you, so we shouldn't adopt that report today, and I suggest we reject the report as an unacceptable report. We tasked them to try to find compromises, etc., and they there personal goals and their own interests.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22395	Mr. Avdić, I understand your good intentions. We have to trade business. We find that there is no agreement, in which case the law has fallen. Niko one argues with a group of MPs, 96, that everything agreed to offer as a new law, so as soon as possible to enter the procedure. So we're ready, and if what they're arguing about, it's just not going to be any further a matter of dispute. So there's always a way out, if there's a good will. Let's all show good faith. We'll get to that law as soon as possible. So let's conclude. There's no argument. It's only business to inform the House, and we're all looking for an opportunity to reach a law that respects European standards and principles. Ad.16. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act of BiH you received a report from the Joint Commission. usaglasiti text of the Consumer Protection Act has been adopted. Two amendments have been adopted. I'm putting the Joint Commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 27 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions, we have accepted the Joint Commission's report by both of us at home on an effort to reach agreement on the identical text of the consumer protection law in BiH. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. Ad.17. A report by the Joint Commission on both the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction You have received on the benches a report on the alignment of the text of this law. The text of the law is in line with the adoption of three amendments. I'm putting the Joint Commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I agree that, unanimously with 28 votes, we have adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and on its destruction. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. Report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office on the audit carried out for 2004, from a. to j. We have on the agenda the next ten reports from ten institutions from this point. You also have a report from the committee responsible on the review report, which contains certain conclusions and recommendations. So we are deciding on reports on the audit carried out on the reports of the committee responsible with conclusions and recommendations. I'm opening a debate. Dr Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22396	I thank the chairman, I would like to propose one conclusion on this agenda point and all the reports we have today. 97 Namely, here is the question of purpose and these reports of these and what happens to them afterwards. Perhaps the best cause of these days is what you can follow in the press, which is, I don't know what to call it, a misunderstanding, let's say, not to say, an incursion into the institutions of the system, a misunderstanding, where a SIPA state agency, by the order of the Prosecutor's Office, assume, is controlling information talks, thank Bog, it's not SIPA, with these powers so that it brings this in without a lawyer in a dark room, one regulatory agency, as a tent is the Agency for communication, especially for the moment what it is, let's true let it do all its work. Everything is subject to investigations and everything needs to be in line, but here the question is when these audit reports are being prepared, then the competent authorities should act in accordance with their powers and, let's say, we have 30 and a change of audit reports. One who reads more carefully could see that, let's say, half of the reports fall into the category of more problematic ones, where they were, on the scale of being negative and here in five blankets. It's clear as a day, we've spent here, I don't know how many, these people have changed, changed the law, because of these few people, because they've dared to say in the Presidency there are some small problems of financial nature, that in diesel, unleaded gasoline, etc. And what I know about everything and, logically, it would be that there's a system that, if I'm talking to you now, if there's 36 reports, if 18 of them are half-probleming, then the D.A.'s office takes a look at those 18 or at least two or three of the most clantantic examples, and that leads to the end. No, you don't know what methodology I want who I don't want here, I'm afraid it's a little bit like picking mature pears, you touch it a little bit and you move on. According to these audit orders, the Regulatory Agency for Communications does not belong to the category of these problematic ones, according to the report and investigation can be done and anything can happen, but does not belong to that category. However, some institutions, which were matured for investigation, were bypassed and went there. I'm not going to make a conspiracy theory right now whether it's because the Minister of Civil Affairs, not for civil affairs, but for communications, it's my favorite character from another story, but the Minister of Transport and Communications has come into conflict with the Revulatory Agency, because right now, I don't want to iron you much with that, but with a little pressure, if the Regulatory Agency issues one permit for, or doesn't give any permission to someone, it can be assessed by millions, for example. where then there's independence, where there's professionalism, etc. So, what's my suggestion, Mr. Chairman? I suggest we put in charge of the Office of Audit, then the SIP and the D.A.'s office to prepare us with information, each of its domains, on activities, then on the methodology of handling the audit reports and the results of any investigations on them, to see if there's any systems there. What, say, if the auditor makes a report for the SIP or the D.A.'s office that they have a negative report. Will the D.A. give this one a warrant to come to this one, or will this one give a warrant to that one? I mean, how do you do it? Should the prosecutor, the director of the SIP, be able to send him to the Bureau, and it would be normal if he had sent him to the Bureau and the prosecutor to give him a warrant, when he'd raised the shit so much, then we'd take off our doubts about the Bureau's innocence or vice versa. In other words, I'm afraid we've entered a space here where there's a possibility of manipulation more than we need. So, simplistically speaking, I think we're waving now, adopting these audit reports, we're going to adopt them, but the question is, what about them, and so I suggest once again, Mr. Chairman, I think I've made myself clear. It is the Office for Audit from its point of view, the SIPA from its own, the Prosecutor's Office from its own, to prepare 98 information on the activities, the methodology of the conduct of audit reports and the results of any investigations on them. Is it done...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22397	I'd like to ask you to conclude in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22398	...you know, he comes to the D.A., he's got five, five prosecutors getting five reports, someone's more up-to-date, someone's not, but to give us information within 30 days. How they do it, how they figure out who they're going to. I'm going to go to everyone who deserved it, but not to go to someone tomorrow, which I know, not to some Derk, not everyone does, Derk says we're not going to give the price of electricity, so we're not going to give you the price of electricity to collect, so since it's the current prosecutor and the one there, they don't have the S.I.E.P.D., they're going to have to send them there, and then they're sending them there, so... just a little bit, as they say, when we're going to build these kind of system institutions, then we're going to introduce systemic behavior in these system institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22399	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, answered the word, then Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22400	I wouldn't agree with my colleague Lagumdžija if he was at the Communications Regulatory Agency, and there's no God knows what. I just think that this report on the Regulatory Agency for Communications and how it is warning, especially when it comes to one institution, whose business we have very often pointed out here. I'll just remind you, let's just say that the procurement procedure has been drastically damaged, so not now getting some less significant things, but if you want to get some business space. So, where not enough time has been left, or the opposite of the procurement decision, only ten days, which favors someone in the whole procedure, and that is, among other things, doubt from this audit team. Look, it doesn't mean anything if we support or reject the Regulatory Agency report, he's who he is. I just want to warn you of the many irregularities that have been discovered or found in this agency, however you want in the audit report. As far as Mr. Lagumdžija's conclusion is concerned, I have to say that I don't understand why he's putting the SIP into the whole system, if SIPA is going to be working on the prosecution's order, and I think it would be logical for his principle that he's up to it, means in this direction that the prosecution should give the SIP a warrant that the SIPA is conducting an investigation of a case, which is why I'm willing to support that conclusion, but, of course, without the SIP, because it's going to work on the prosecution's orders.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22401	The replica of Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22402	You weren't at one of Mr. Lagumdžija's sessions. What you suggest we suggest is a conclusion. 99 1. The Finance and Budget Commission, when it looked at all the reports, did not put any conclusions and recommendations of the Audit Office into question, she said. It draws conclusions that are common to all budget users, so we've listed them tax-based and ultimately we're stealing, then we've listed those who got positive reports, that they know by name and last name who they are, the others who have opinions with the reserve, that we wouldn't be making a selection of who's less guilty, or less reserved opinion of him, that these instructions to the D.A.'s Office and that we're asking the D.A. for what they've done in those reports. However, with Parliament's goodwill and decision of this home, he got it all at the end of last year, to analyse the report on the spoon this year. We now have whether the third ten, the second I'm not sure, and we have four tens. So ten at a time. For the first time today, someone comes forward for the word, those 20 have passed without noise, and only then will we finally come to the conclusion, and I am convinced. I don't mind the conclusions, but it would be easier to track one than two similar ones. So we have that conclusion. We adopted him, sent him to the House, and waited for all these reports to pass, so that the House would come to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22403	I thank my colleague Milićević. Mr. Lagumdžija, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22404	My Kolegica Milićević, I'm not asking the D.A. to tell us he'll definitely report it to us once we're tired, we'll get him under the 17th point, and we'll get through it. I'm interested in how this is done systemically at all, how it's read, who I'm going to who I'm not going to. The methodology by which it's done. How to read, because, for example, colleague Novaković may not know the local opportunities, but here when you look at this, a building was bought, beware of the fact that a building was bought for the state so that no large rent costs are paid, but the building was bought at the eternal fire, for two thousand marks per square. Maybe there'd be three grand in Lukavica, but it wouldn't be a problem. Maybe it's a better quality solution, I'm not saying, but let's not make problems here where they're not and don't take things out of context. There's a rumor here about the Regulatory Agency because this policy is being pressured to do other things with that agency, and if they're guilty, let the D.A. and the D.A. find out about it, that's what this is about, but there's no substitute for thesis here. Here in the report that you mentioned, please, it is very clear here that both SIPA and the D.A. had a lot more reason to go to some other addresses before this one, not to say that someone at the set should have gone, I'm not going into it. There's this little methodological problem for people to go to without conflict of interest, but let's let it go for a moment. We have, therefore, a problem, which introduces a volunteerism here, in which it is possible that you have one political option connected in several places, and that's how some people who don't fit in. Let me be very clear and precise. I'm not asking us to solve the Regulatory Agency, I'm not asking for us to solve the D.A.'s Office, I'm just suggesting that we give us information on how to systemically resolve this, so that these state institutions, which are very powerful, don't become methods of political reckoning and pressure on people. What we saw most, good colleague Novaković, is not your fault that you do not know where the fire is and what 2,000 squares means and how much business space is there. You 2000 can be a lot. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22405	I would ask that MPs do not address each other, to discuss the report if possible, in a way that knows what they do not know. You wanted a replica to your colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22406	You see, fellow Lagumdžija, I did nothing but read the sentences from the audit report. You've now replicated what I didn't say. I did not mention at all two thousand or five thousand, or three thousand or eternal fire, but I mentioned the bracelet that says in the audit report, which clearly states that, we noticed that a ten-day deadline for the purchase of the building was left for the collection of offers, which is not in line with the decision on the procurement of goods, services, etc. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Lagumdžija, this building could have been paid 10 grand, if it was in accordance with the law and if there were 12 grand somewhere else. So it's important to me what's written here, and I trust the people who wrote this audit report, and I don't care if I know where you live in this town or where there's eternal fire or where the street of Marshall Tito, Alija Izetbegović, etc. is. I'm less.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22407	I was talking about these audit reports in the first part, and I was saying enough from the occasion in that part, which could almost apply to all the audit reports. I want to read you a few sentences from a document called the Public Sector Review Conference of Coordination Mechanisms, which was held at the end of the 11th month in the organization Transparent Internect. There were several significant people who spoke on the subject of audit reports, but what was devastating and greatest truth said by one stranger, the stranger is Patrik Dresing, the deputy high representative and head of OHR's economic department. He says, "After the storm has calmed down, politicians, directors of various committees and other members of those circles, they return to their jobs as if nothing had happened." It's about the audit reports. This is not just a cause for dissatisfaction, this is a tragedy for BiH and its citizens. Therefore, scarce funds are used to maintain luxury fleets for managers or to finance the luxurious travels of ministers and their closest associates, rather than invest in the efficient and more efficient and productive work of ministers and worse. So far, the number of criminal cases launched on the basis of audit reports is disproportionately low. There is only one reason that I can think of, that the recommendations of the audit report are ignored, avoided, and that is, if members of existing stakeholders decide that their interest remains more important than public interest. It's terrible that one stranger said this. All the domestics found excuses for that. This is reason enough for us all to imagine.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22408	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. The word was requested by Mr. Špirić, the president of the House. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22409	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I sometimes understand these discussions, sometimes many things are not clear from them, and sometimes I can guess from these discussions. We have audit reports, we have a competent commission, which has made general conclusions and recommendations. Now we're walking into a trap that we're suddenly turning to some things that are going on. I'm convinced we're doing damage to institutions that we care about working fantastically. If there's nothing in the institutions, why are we taking care of each other? Why do I care who he gets into sooner or later? He'll get into all of them. No one will be forgotten in this country, after the report if it indicates that there is crime and corruption and who is in a position to make order. I have a feeling that today we are not helping an institution that we want to draw close to. I appreciate the work of this institution, the management, I have to be honest and I think it's in their interest to reduce the political story and the noise and to end the process. So we simply have today's story as well as all the reports to adopt the Commission's recommendations. I'm against the fact that we teach the D.A.'s office if we've built it as an independent and state-owned institution, which we're asking for to work professionally. If someone claims to have unprofessional work of institutions, please file documents and make a statement about it, but it seems to me that this way we're making a service between the services, we're opening up suspicions where it may least exist. Give it as you've done so far. We have a report and let us make clear on the Commission's conclusions, which contain the general conclusion. I'm against the fact that we're sending these reports to the prosecution, they're obliged to follow up on the reports. Why would I tell him who to read before and who to read later. Let everyone do their job, where they estimate that there are elements to launch a criminal procedure they will do it, but if someone has the info to cover up something that is a crime, then please inform Parliament. I feel like no one wants to say what they're defending today, and I'd love to say it. Here, I said I appreciate the work of management in which the services work and get them out of service with an attitude and that's helping that management. If no failure was made, why should the services be governed by a political one, it is a political one to persecute, but it is a reminder that work must be done in the interest of the public interest, if there are these problems and that is why I wanted to help us not to enter. We can run individual analyses, but we have fantastic conclusions from the Finance and Budget Commission and I am here to adopt them. We can't change the audit reports, at least we know that. Let the competent institutions draw from these reports and do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22410	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Let Mrs. Sopta prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as serious and responsible people to get these audit reports, we would really have to make one system so we can control what happens next. The Zlatko is now gone, he suggested, indeed, one good conclusion and I think we should support it. He spoke another example, so it was disputed here that the agency bought a building for 2,000 marks per square square at the eternal fire, and I'm telling you that in Banja Luka they paid, one rent, paid 2,500 marks and just... and the free auditor Čeko said it was illegal, but the man in power and he won't give the DA's order to make SIPA go there. So 102 is not a problem that the prosecution has given the SIP a warrant to go and have to go, but the problem is, what is the communication between Parliament and the prosecution? Whoever does this there has a selective approach to go according to the audit reports. There's a problem with the D.A.'s office. You have people in the D.A.'s office, like you have individual people everywhere who work for someone in politics and they're triage, and that's why we don't have this communication like they have the D.A.'s office with the S.I.P.D., and that's how it should be. I think we should adopt this conclusion and know in the D.A.'s office people that they can't listen to people from the shallows but in the institutions of the system. Let everyone have their independence, but if the illegal report goes to them, he has no right to hide it, to process it, and let him, if he's professional and smart through processing, say he has no illegality. Let him help a criminal in that way. There's another way to determine how he saved a criminal through his legal knowledge, and I'm telling you that in the prosecution of such people there is and why you're bothered by this conclusion. There will be some people's parliamentary oversight there when it comes to civil society. Let's open it up, but it's dangerous who creates a climate in the D.A.'s office so they can behave like that and I can ignore Parliament. So, guys, let's do this seriously. These are some of those who, because of the institution of the justice reform system, are supported by foreigners, there is a man of blood and flesh who works for criminals. Let's get the men to control it. I have the right to accuse them because I have examples, to approach them selectively, to have examples, and if necessary, I will prove them. Eh, that's why we're going to, and if you respect me as a colleague to adopt this Lagumdji's conclusion and insist on it, then there's going to be a new climate in the D.A.'s office and then they're going to start working normally. Otherwise, you have people who listen to either the international community or the political leaders, i.e. Power. And this is the man I'm talking about in power, and that's why he can work illegally and no one's gonna hurt him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22412	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda, the report, that we call the prosecutors prosecutors, not the hoodlums. If anyone has evidence that someone is conducting the selection, please deliver them, there are a thousand ways, let us stick to the agenda and what we can do as Parliament. Mrs. Ruža Sopta asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22413	I thank Mr. Chairman, I just thought that after you, she gave up almost a discussion, because it seems to me that you united and said what I was about to say. However, it seems to me that, however, it should and needs to be said again. We have a young new institution, which so far has been in one right direction to help us, not just us as one of the users, but all the users of the budget, to arrange their business and to cover each operation and to cover all the rules, i.e. the laws or rules on business. It seems to me that here all the discussions that were being held, which I must admit one part I didn't even understand when it came to communication between Mr. Novaković and Mr. Lagumdžija, are going to try to turn this institution into a financial police or criminal police, or that we've confused the time of the discussion. This discussion that's been here may need to be attended there when we discuss the prosecution's report on their work to discuss it then. We have an institution here, which I consider to be the most done, which is new-young, but it's the most done in its business. It seems to me that when the audit reports were read, only what was negatively not agreed, what had not improved 103 on the suggestion of the auditor, but no one had read what had happened. All services, i.e. all budget users, have evolved positively, thanks to the suggestions of the Audit Office, and I think it is very commendable and very positive. Our audit office also received an external opinion from the auditory house, even in the communications they had conducted in previous talks with members of the Finance and Budget Committee. They said that certain countries that have a tradition in the audit and have even audit studies, within their colleges, do not have one good communication, in particular they commended the Commission's communication seeking opinions and the users of the budget after the audit report and are again being declared. So I'm holding that it's not a function of reviewing that she points to the finger of holding a thief and holding a criminal, but rather, to arrange that every operation, when it comes to financial operations, some other jobs, is killed by regulations, normative acts, which they will tomorrow determine whether something is good, whether something is respected or not respected. So I think we took one step back, when it comes to this service, when we passed the law on the revision, but on that and on that, we were able to make a statement, but I'm sure we can't ask for it in this case. I've just been on the committee to send reports to the D.A.'s office. Why send me that? These reports are public. They're getting published. The prosecution must have smell and reason, and knowledge of when and where it should react. Frankly, through these reports I don't see much space that the prosecution can do that, through what Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Novaković said, but it's not in the reports. They just said she didn't follow advertising rules, nothing else. The prosecution certainly won't react... but if something criminal was done, because they didn't respect the advertising rules, then there they would lay down their space. So I keep, to help this institution keep doing as it did, because if you read now the reports of these per subject, at least more than half of the suggestions from previous reports are accepted, so it's a big shift, and there are cases where all the suggestions are accepted, there are reports where the suggestion is accepted, but it's not well done, we need to fix it, let's help these people to help us do this properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22414	I thank my colleague Sopta. Mr. Bešlagić, Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22415	I'll be very brief. Thinking that the revision is something that points to shortcomings and, with the right of the prosecution to carry out audits and conduct a certain procedure, I doubted it all until the moment I was really thrilled with the RS when the revision made some shifts in this sense to report on, I would say about weaknesses, in the Woods of the Republic of Slovenia and the Railways, and that the procedure followed, which should follow. I'm only interested in whether we can establish this procedure from BiH level. I wouldn't want to change the auditor's policy at all and suggest to them what they're going to do and who they're going to do, but if their reports talk about the negative business of certain institutions, I'm interested in who's due and within what time to take the activities that are now going to process that audit. It's all that matters to me, and that's why I felt that this system should be established. I don't think I'm going to be auditing, and when you read the report, I can just say, since we're adopting, I'm adopting the auditor's report, but it's hard to say when we adopt a report that's negative, that nothing further is done. There is a question, where it seems to me that the Commission has given 104 suggestions and that we should do so, but it is necessary to define the procedures and procedures that should be taken in fact when the revision is made. If it is positive, praise belongs to Bog, and it does not mean that someone cannot enter into the process to process certain things, if it is committed to some criminal activities. But I think that this report that's here, I'm glad we have a full report. We do 4 times 10 of these reports, but I'm really in a big dilemma, if there's no reaction to those who should process certain things afterwards, it's a question where it seems to me that we should just establish this relationship and nothing more. Perhaps in the D.A.'s report, we should ask the DA why he didn't process the negative audit reports, and then I think we should give them a review, not a commission, which is also an audit to our commission that has delegated these reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22416	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Avdić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, congratulations and the commission and a special audit, which I would say has the courage, the knowledge and the mind to do its job. It really needs to be supported to insist on these efforts to end, objectively signal the functioning and functioning of BiH institutions. But, objectively, the rule of law in BiH is slowly and unartificely invigorating. A judicial system that has experienced its reform and the prosecution system, etc. They are still not in full scope and capacity established in BiH. So we're just building a legal system. We are building a system that is very sensitive and that in implementing this system, implementing the law, will objectively be a lot of problems and let's not run away from it, etc. So, it's a good opportunity that Dr. Lagumdžija has kind of elaborated my proposal at the beginning of the session. He may have gone one step further to elaborate that proposal or, simply by chance, call him whatever you want. But it's just a good example that we can simply set up a system on that very example and in this way, start to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22418	Whenever Lagumdžija goes away, you split up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22419	No, no, Dr. Lagumdžija really elaborated what I said at the beginning of the session, and in this context, you don't need to waste words. I would suggest the following. So in this system, the review gives reports to the Parliamentary Assembly, reports to the Council of Ministers and reports to the Prosecutor's Office. I agree with my colleague Novaković, we cannot communicate at all with any condition to give or ask SIP, but as objectively as we do with an independent system of authorities, such as the Prosecutor's Office in BiH, to present to us a real methodology, how it acts on the audit reports. That's really interesting. What a system the D.A.'s handling. We need not explain any specific case, but only to give us, simply, that in its scope and procedures, the methods of work, is one of the priorities of the BiH review report, and in this context we can ask for it. So, I'm suggesting that the conclusion is partially corrected, which means 105 that the D.A. is really giving us an answer to the question which is the methodology on which it deals with the aspect of the BiH audit report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22420	Thank you. A colleague, Moranjkić, asked for a word. We're bringing an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22421	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I will be very brief. I think we hit something in the head or we fence it in the aisle when these breaks are. We, as long as my white head didn't let me down, made a nice deal when we got a list of under-full 40 institutions, which are being controlled, to share them for these and those things, not to talk, to look at them systematically, etc. And let's play what my dear colleague Milićević says, they pass, no one turns their head and, suddenly, we cut into a third group and start looking under the fingernails for something to put here. I, by the way, am interested in being a man as an MP that I think we have six left. Right? Eh, what are we gonna do about those six? If they were to draw some conclusions, then it was either at the beginning or finally at the end, and since we have them, which Mrs. Milićević says, then I don't really see the purpose of this. This is where the report needs to be evaluated, he's on the agenda. What I read, I congratulate these people. I think they've done their job well. I think they should be supported. They're still on their way, and we're finally just gonna back our commission's conclusions, and everything's fine, people. I don't know, sometimes I get lost.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22422	I thank my colleague Moranjkić. I think he's absolutely right, that we have to go back to the topic of discussing reports and proposals and the findings of the committee, and they've covered all of this that we've been hearing about for two hours. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22423	I'm not going to repeat anything from what they said, that it's exactly what my colleague Milićević said and now Mr. Moranjkić said again, and it's really weird that we found this on today, but there's one thing that's weird. Here, there's a little reaction here for me, and there's a break somewhere. How is it that we don't have such a relationship, that we don't run such big things, as they move into RS Cheko as an auditor, in fact discover these criminal acts and, indeed, really, some things are settled accordingly. However, we forget that this audit, which we are dealing with, that, in fact, the revision of the state institutions, was here and some about it, that we should justify something. We're the auditors' house no one attacked. She's actually totally and normally doing this job. We have concluded what we have said behind this, that we will refer to everything as we have examined and what we should have adopted and that we are in charge at the end of the discussion of all these audit reports, because it is about the institutions of the state. Therefore, the audit reports did not have such things as the RS chief auditor reveals, as it is there for state-owned companies, which are under the authority of that auditor. Here are the institutions, which each individual has what is revealed in it, and if that court, or the Prosecutor's Office 106, decides that it should, it will move, I guess. We shouldn't worry about it if it's going to run or not, because it doesn't work there either in RS, wondering if the prosecutor will run, but he's bringing up problems that are there, and then he's on the D.A.'s office to start it. So in what we've been bringing, if there are, then we should have singled them out as special in that report, about which to raise such a procedure. We've concluded here that, on occasion, these reports have those, have these negativity, but that's why we'll recommend it in that final report to run if the D.A. has a problem, but I don't think it needs something special here right now to change things. It's been warned enough. We have all these conclusions. It's been seen what's the problem, and I guess that'll be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22424	Thank you. I'm begging you, if you don't mind. Comrade Sipović, you're on the phone, but please, if we can move forward... we'll stick to the agenda. I haven't heard a single sentence specifically about the audit report, and we have the Commission's conclusions. We're talking about the prosecutions here, the sycamore courts, the class bothers us when people are being chased, the hour bothers us that the prosecution doesn't work. We're going in, I'm afraid of a field that's not good, but here you go, colleague Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22425	Mr. Chairman, I, absolutely share your opinion, that this Parliament must trust in the institutions of our system in principle, but indeed, absolutely to everyone, it is, again, out of their minds. In the division, I am not going to give a lecture here, it is very subtle in the division of power between legislative, executive and judicial authorities to establish the limit of interaction and this Parliament as the legislative body most, chosen by the representatives of thieves, has indeed played a role in control, so we have adopted budgets and budget implementation and all that. Please, what I mean. All of what my colleagues were saying in the commission, I was not then a member of our finance and budget, which gave extensive insemination and on point in the conclusion of the 7th proposal to Parliament. He says, the Finance and Budget Commission is proposing to Parliament, proposing that the BiH Prosecutor's Office submit a report to 33 users, for which the reserve gave an opinion with the reserve, and for the sake of the ongoing initiation of the criminal proceedings, in line with the institution's competences. Please, what does that mean? That doesn't mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22426	Please, we've all read the Commission's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22427	Please, this is where the thesis is being replaced, so whatever it is, eventually has the status of some financial or economic offense element, is not for the prosecution of criminal prosecution. You know what a crime is. Therefore, please chair, I suggest and see where the problem lies here. Why are we here drilling that we are the largest legislative body and we have 107 control of the executive authority. We can't have... and control when we get this number of papers and this much, it's absurd to adopt the auditor's report for the gross plan with 10 and these. Therefore, this is the essence of which makes the actual power of any institution of executive authority or outside Parliament stronger than Parliament, and you talk what you want. We make the laws, the one who has the actual power, and not the dejour. So I can shape it. If I were to turn away, I'd ask the chairman. It is your duty as my MP as chairman to create order and discipline and respect for new MPs. You want me to come back with the same measure and laugh and poop and disrespect you. I can be even more awkward than you think, but I respect you, I won't. Please, which is why I want to say it. I agree with your part of the conclusions, but please, when I'm a MP or any one of them I've ever worked in, when these huge audit reports come in, this is becoming a nightmare. Please, if you can in the future, appreciate that you reduce these reports to respect the conclusions of our commission and that we are not teaching here. If there is an illegality, it does not mean that everyone is for criminal processing, that we do not create here in Parliament a reward for something else, but on the other hand, I am absolutely for the conclusion of the Commission, in particular to correct as a special member of the 7th, and then the essence is affected here by all discussions and debates. In this context, I would like this home to have its own dignity, and to respect all our institutions, to inform in this direction and to make such a conclusion, that is, our commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22428	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. I'm closing the debate. Niko one's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going from report to report so far. So, if we adopt or adopt a package with the Commission's proposal and conclusions, the competent Commission. Package. Do you agree with the package... Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. So, we vote, we accept the report, and we accept the committee's conclusions. Vote. We voted, for 23, no one against, no one abstention. So we have most of it. We unanimously accepted the BiH Financial Business Audit Office's report on the audit carried out in 2004. a. The Ministry of Security of BiH, b. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs d. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, f. the BiH Presidency, Mr. Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH, H. the Office for Joint Affairs of the BiH Institutions, etc.The BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, together with the recommendations and conclusions of the committee of the representative home. 108 Ladies and gentlemen, we move to the 19th point of the agenda, Ad.19. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2005 We received a report from the State Regulatory Commission on Electricity on 6 January. This morning, the report was discussed by the competent Commission for Transport and Communications. During the session, you received our commission's opinion. The Commission has proposed to the House to adopt a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in the text offered. The House Commission also proposes to adopt the following conclusions. 1. Taking into account the fact that the introduction of VAT has led to an increase in electricity prices, the House proposes to the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to form a programme for the protection of socially endangered categories of the population, with the aim of easing the consequences of the introduction of VAT for this consumer category, and 2. It is suggested to the competent institutions to take all necessary measures to avoid a significant increase in electricity prices. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22429	I thank Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't want to take much time for sure. However, it seems to me that since we haven't adopted the conclusion, but we have proposed it, it remains on the Commission's secretary to shape it, it seems to me that it should have increased a little here. Taking into account the fact that the introduction of VAT and the new way of tariffs, which should only be entered at the beginning of the 3rd month and which will lead to a new price increase, is to include this. The introduction of VAT and a new way of tariffs has either occurred or there will be an increase in electricity prices, the Council of Ministers is proposed, so this second text remains. Also, when it comes to this second conclusion, he says. It is suggested to the competent institutions, I would also the truth, if we had discussed the Council of Ministers and entity governments to take all the necessary measures, so that there would be no significant increase in electricity prices, which would lead economic operators to a difficult situation of production process disturbances and an increase in the cost of production, the impact of price increases, large increases in electricity prices. I think that should have been a little more specific. I think it remained too mild compared to how we discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22430	So, I understand you're saying that the Commission's position has not been faithfully transferred to these two conclusions. And if that's what the other members of the Commission think, then today we are not prepared to discuss these conclusions in this way, but rather to define the conclusions that we as the House would plead. So, if you do. I think these conclusions are general in my view good. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22431	They are not essential changes, only clarifications, the conclusions are suggested are clarified. Who are these competent institutions?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22432	If the members of the Commission accept these suggestions, I have no objection, but I ask that the future Commission verify its work, that it does not leave it to the Secretary-General and that the members of the committee here speak differently to us. The first speaker, Martin Raguž, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22433	Thank you very much. I would ask you only for a little patience, here is the leadership of this state regulatory agency, all day long waiting here, so that we respect their patience, and I will base my brief discussion on the Law on Transfer, Regulator and Operator of the Electricity System in BiH, which is the basis for the work of this committee, adopted by this Parliament, then on the report of this Commission and on the opinion of our competent commission, or on the report on the work of the Agency, and I would ask our Commission. With respect to all the members of the Commission, at nine o'clock, the hour before the House means this about one important opinion, a report and a complete space of procedure, and it is possible that we have an incorrect interpretation of the quality conclusions and quality work of the Commission. I personally won't support this commission's report just for that reason because of the relationship to this one of the most important substances in the country. Second, the powers of the Derek are in many respects beyond the powers of the Council of Ministers and this calls for a serious debate. So, gentlemen, you were appointed by this Parliament three and a half years ago, with certain objectives and tasks to do according to the law a job and functionalization of the entire system and I want to discuss it in quality. I congratulate you personally on the many things that you have done positively, but also when I connect these 3-4 things, I see that there is no sign of the strategy yet, of the stragegies that this country has formed, it has passed the Law in the interests of people, of citizens, of production, of the economy, etc. And we just need a Bianca again in five minutes to chew it all up and move on. Now, I'm not up for that approach and I'm not doing this kind of work anymore. I therefore support the proposal to postpone this Commission report and to allow for another further debate on this Commission report. That's my suggestion. You don't have to accept it. It is my relationship to this important topic and it is, not diminishing the importance of the work of the members of the Commission at any point, I have no idea of criticising it, but I want it to be problematic why price purchases occur. when the objective was to rationalise and efficiency of the system. I'm asking a question. They may have arguments for that, but here I haven't seen them in either the Commission's report or the Derk's report. I don't see any of them at all. Introduces VAT, collects electricity. We don't have mechanisms within the Council of Ministers, we don't have strategic answers to these things and we don't have the Commission's answers on these issues, but rather, it says in the point in this retreat, verse 3. Derk brought in several legal acts, issuing licences, and subjectively on the market el. energy, created conditions for unlimited and free trade, and stable supply of electricity, according to defined quality standards. There's nothing controversial about this except that this doesn't fit the actual state. You know, that's what it's all about. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22434	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22435	I don't know why you're interrupting me. You have no right to interrupt me. Did I address someone? And that's what the Commission said. I didn't address people who responded. You react as I speak. I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22436	Just a little patience. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22437	I think I have patience. I think that I have completely struck the essence of the problem and of the questions, and no one should be angry at this, but for why it is appointed, why there is a legal basis and why significant budgetary resources are allocated, it is necessary to lay down the accounts correctly in this House, nothing more, and don't be nervous about it, gentlemen. You have no right to be nervous. And from the Commission on such an important matter, I expect a more precise report, that's my point of view.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22438	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Mr Bešlagić answered the words, so Jovanović Miloš, then Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22439	Take note of these questions asked by a colleague, Raguž, these are the questions that we have asked on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22440	So why didn't you put them in the report?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22441	I don't mind as a member of the Commission, here we'll agree that, just by analyzing this all you've just said here. We have received certain answers, but that report would be, Malta not, but rather this report by the Commission Derk. So, we got one explanation, where even the people of Derk, we said, in fact, that in further work, the joint work of setting up what it is that interferes with what we were talking about, that by dividing these three wholes, we get to a cheaper el. Energy. Surely, if this is what she wants, then she deserves, and I absolutely agree with you that there must be a special debate, that all the elements of the mathematical report must be reported and that in that sense we can get an answer in which the Derk Directorate, who has also submitted this report, must be prepared to present it all, because today in this debate we have received such a conviction, we have received information that we will get these clarifications, which we can present to the House. I think, here, there's the President of the Commission, the members of the Commission, and I don't mind, if this detailed report is asked to return this to the Commission, that we get this 111 data and then in that Derk report, it's presented to you. Our conclusions will again be in this spirit, which, here and here were adopted. So, absolutely, if MPs think they need this data for their information, I think the Commission can accept that this report is coming back to get this and that with this data coming back for discussion, it's nothing controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22442	A colleague, Jovanović, answered the word, and a colleague, Moranjkić, to bring the place in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22443	Well, you see, the fact that we were a little bit, let's just say, a little bit of a time-stutter, but I didn't hear anything new. I'd like Mr. Raguž to say what it is in the Derk report that we all got, what is it that is not good and what has the Commission done that is not good? I'd like to know specifically what it is, so it was all a general story and some dissatisfaction with someone. I really don't know what it is. Here are the people here so let them say what the problem is, or I think it's really not clear to me. So I can agree that maybe there's something you need to rephrase in your conclusions. Any conclusion can be changed based on someone's opinion, but the bottom line is this. That is the essence and I really am not giving up and I would ask the members of the Commission to vote in favour of this report. I'll take it if there's a word somewhere that's been thrown out, so you should add it, it's nothing controversial, but I don't see anything concrete about what's not in this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22444	Thank you. A colleague of Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22445	Since I worked part of the Commission, with a delay with the Kolegijum, I can say the following. The report is what it is. People presented what they did, what they did. Whether it took more or less to be done or done, we have to have parameters to say. You should have done it and done it, then and then. You did this. However, what I have seen, but probably it has its own why it is so, that these people in my job, which I appreciate and I think they've done relatively much, there are certain objective problems throughout our structures, the setting of these problems from entities and beyond, and probably they didn't write in the report visas about it, in order to turn it to a political one-now connotation, not to say conflict, but not to say certain unresolved momentary situations, let's say between entities and certain institutions, who are following these people in the work. It may be in a certain way and that lack of that report, but I suppose a lot has been done and, if I'm a man, I've always stepped on it, and I've noticed it and suggested that they write that too. He says we did it, that and that. Will you accept, it's an act done. But for the record, we couldn't do this, because we had a problem with this guy here, he wouldn't let us go in there, etc. That's what it is, but I was behind the Commission's report. I support him. I don't think we in the Commission have anything else to change, except that people just write as an addition to what I'm pointing at. Thank you very much. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22446	Thank you. My colleague, Ćeman, asked for a word. The Sopta Ruža.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm the one who's got to get the rest of it. I was, in truth, focused on the report and what we wrote. However, the fact is, if you noticed, I had an initiative in both questions and answers and initiatives, precisely on the subject in this area, for the reason I heard additional information on this committee. Perhaps it is a shame, what Mr Raguž says, that Members of Parliament do not hear the problem, which was created in the meantime, i.e., I think that by forming the Derk and those initiatives for restructuring, i.e. the restructuring of the electricity industry, i.e. I will say the electrical systems, so I will call it, I don't know what to say. We thought we'd lead to the rationalization and efficiency of the power-saving. The fact that we have now announced a drastic increase in electricity, both households and economies. The fact is that we have a problem like no country in the environment, i.e. that we do not have a single market and the fact is that this can lead to one of the terrible earthquakes, both on the social plan and on the economic plan. I'm holding that from this report that Derk wrote to us. But that's what people have explained to us. What they did and what they wrote in the report in the truth were numbered and in the truth, I can say the quality of the work and their part, they actually fulfilled the task they had when they had the word in the organization and the separation of electricity and electricity production, I don't know either. It seems to me it would make sense that with what the Commission asked the Derk to supplement us, that it would be a good thing to be an integral part of the report and that we find it at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22448	At first, until I saw that there were different views in the Commission, let us not lose 2-3 hours in order to ultimately make it a definitive position.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22449	So the Commission found itself in a teat because we put it on the agenda in time, but there were no rapporteurs, or not a reporter in time...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22450	We can even postpone the statement by the report, if you appreciate that it takes time. If you don't appreciate it, please. So, Mrs. Sopta and Mr. Čeman. Let's do quality work. You don't have to break over your knee. I don't think it's in the interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22451	The gentlemen of the Commission have been with us all day, and at least they have been as sorry as we are and should not regret this day here, but our agenda, that is, is the report on the work of the Derk, not the Commission's report on this one. The Commission's report in a way we know what and we need help to determine ourselves in this report. 113 I intended to discuss some of the elements in this report, but it seems to me that in the direction in which you're trying to bring it to an end, it would be acceptable for me, too, so I got up to support it. I think it would be a good idea if, indeed, there were these dilemmas, to maybe look at this one more time, but I'm surprised at it at all, why the gentlemen of the Commission should have given them a chance to come out, so if we're already discussing the report to say something themselves. You haven't given them a chance yet, maybe they haven't even asked. Of course, but I mean, we don't need to push out our commission's report in the first place right now, but first let's see about this report, and since I was going to say it myself, but here I see the Commission rightly noticed these problems about increasing the prices of el. Energy, in the context of the VAT Act, as far as it is now, as far as it affects or could affect it, etc. I don't want to be any longer. I propose, or I agree with those who feel that there is no time wasted today that the Lady of the Commission has been with us, yes, but a little more attention is given to this for the next session, so that we may clarify if there is a dilemma, as you have suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22452	Thank you. A colleague, Izet Hadžić, if anyone wants it from Derk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22453	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, we can talk a lot about this. I would really suggest that the 2005 report on Derk's work be adopted, because it is very good and good. Things to work on in the future, as well as in 2006 and possibly the 2006-2010 strategy, should be entrusted to the Commission to conduct further discussions with the Regulatory Agency on these tasks. Today, we, let's say, have said a lot of things, principles, and there's some way to do it. So, I have only come forward to propose that today's report be adopted by both the Commission and the Derk, and if there are any other suggestions for future work for both the Commission and the Derk, let it enter into specific conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22454	Thank you. A colleague, Huskić, and we're bringing the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22455	I am a member of the Commission, so I have an obligation to say something, because all my colleagues said something, but most of what I was about to say, said colleague Izet now in a previous discussion. We in these previous discussions have opened a much broader topic than we have defined it in the agenda, and then all discussions have some weight, but I suggest we adopt this conclusion, to accept the report and the Derk report and our commission's report, let this apply to 2005, that's how it is. I think our conclusions are good. They suggest in some way that VAT is taken care of, and what should be done in the future, that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22456	I thank you, but what I want to draw attention to is very illogical that a serious area such as the energy sector is that the commission is sitting for half an hour or an hour before Parliament's session. I'm sorry to have to say that. So, I'm not saying anything bad about the Commission's work. It's a serious matter and a serious area, and I think she needs to be paid attention. 114 As far as I'm concerned, I'm closest to the Commission working together with management colleagues, to supplement this report, and to remove them if there is any dilemma, because there is a possibility that we might be late for something. Can we do any damage if we don't adopt today? We can't. So if you think it's correct, then it'll be adopted. I'm just carrying out my dilemmas. Don't be angry, please. So, the Director of Derk is looking for a word. Here you go. In front of the Commission, one of the members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22457	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, first of all, to apologize to Mr Raguž, but also to comment, he did not come from our side and I am sorry if you understood that part. I went out after a meeting this morning the Commission was my co-worker and I didn't come to say anything different from what they said, how they informed me, but maybe to make a few clarifications I think is good. This is a report, we are in accordance with the Law of Obligation by the end of the year to submit a report. So by December 31st, he submitted a report on his work. We try every time to make it in a minute to 12, aware that we might miss some things at that speed, that we make that report, because the law is so defined and, here, this is the third report we haven't been late for. The second thing, when I talk about 2005, we didn't adopt any tariffs in 2005. The fact is, the media shows that tariff procedures are conducted in three commissions, meaning two entity and state commissions. The fact is, there's a law on el. Energy in the RS and the Law on El. The power in the Federation and that there is this state law, which has accurately distinguished the competences of all three commissions. The fact is that we are in charge, among other things, of the transmission system and system management and the fact is that we have taken all the activities to finally form the transmission company and it is registered in February o.g. We can change the title of the report and add the report to the first quarter, but this is the 2005 report. We spoke last year, and we are now saying, we are at our disposal for any additional reports, but that will then be the report on the work of January, February, or the activities we are conducting. We were in Mostar last night until seven hours of a joint three commissions working on a new tariff system, let's call him. Secondly, the press often mentions a normal increase, a significant increase. First, I'm not sure there's going to be an increase and how much of a price increase I'm going to say right now. We have one entity commission, we have another entity commission. From our jurisdiction, we conditioned the transitional tariffs so that the transmission company, for which we all advocate, could start working and I must tell you, the transmission tariff we set, didn't exist before. Whoever says she's smaller or bigger doesn't speak, I won't tell the truth, but don't tell the facts, because those tariffs didn't exist. There were costs for the transfer activity. I have to tell you that the costs we've taken into account for 2006, at the cost level of 2004, look after me. So all those costs that follow the balance of success are at the level of 2004. So, in that section, there is no increase in costs in that segment. The tariffs will come out as they are and they are, by our own standards, lower than they were in terms of 2004 costs. How will the complete tariff system end, which is, I must say, whatever we are, a state commission. All three of us, when we're discussing and yesterday we were discussing in Mostar, we say it's a shame that there's nothing we can do after the coordination complete that someone 115 can finally do it. I am also telling you, in the final definition of tariffs, are competent entity commissions, when tariffs for final customers come out, as we say know they will be officially adopted by the RS Regulatory Commission and the Federation of BiH Regulatory Commission. Our impression is present. I was taking a break with Mr. Raguž. We're looking for certain things that we couldn't do because of the situation as they are in the sector because of the lack of a transmission company, because of inherited relations, we couldn't do some things in this. We're going to go to it and the role of the Regulator is to demand a rationalization of business, the number of employees, the costs, etc., but don't expect, in a situation where from three power plants a group of people is moving to work in a joint foam company, so that we should say now, you 30% can't cross, stay somewhere. We'll, uh, we'll follow the work of the transmission company. We gave them a license, set a tariff. The next tariff procedure will mean some comparative analysis with the environment, that we estimate, that someone in the next period should do something to rationalise, but if it's expected to be done in half a year or in a month, it's unrealistic, and we have to give management of the deadlines, where they have to have some impact on costs. Unfortunately, I have to say it's not from our jurisdiction. I'd love to, and the three of us would love to be able to influence even if it's a difficult situation right now. Electricity prices, what we don't regulate, have jumped on the market, mostly import - export, etc. We are also trying, and can't say, after all, that the entity commissions are also not trying to bring about some kind of shock as much as possible and that there is no greater impact on consumers in BiH. Certain influences will, I'd cheat if I said they wouldn't be, but believe me, what's in this commission's jurisdiction, she's done, she's kept expenses at the level of 2004. These transmission companies will seek, in line with the entity commissions, to properly deploy these costs to the system, in some places, possibly, if the need arises, to absorb these jumps in the purchase of el. Energy. There's a lot of it. I don't think it's a place here, nor is it our place to talk about law and law enforcement. In my opinion, there's a lot that can be changed, which can contribute to the efficiency of the system, but, believe me, we know that the law on the establishment of a portable company has been passed. And now that foam company is just starting to work. We, like the Commission, must say, have created basic preconditions for her to work. One part of that activity was this year. I, if I may suggest, in 2005, what we did, is written in this book. She's who she is. It can be added, something can be taken away. We're trying to figure it out one way. If it were a different situation, if we were following the whole system, she'd probably get a slightly different look, but that's it. If we want to talk or write about this part of the second, it would be ours, possibly, current information, and we as a commission are at our disposal. We also told these competent committees in both homes, that sometimes we would, if you remember and sent some information. We will inform, we will inform about tariffs, even what is not from our domain, what is done in entity commissions, but, that is, it seems to me to be the subject of some ongoing information and our ongoing activities. Here, I apologize for keeping you a few minutes late, but try to explain it to us. The point is that the costs, as far as the transfer is concerned, are at the level of 2004. We don't say I can't be smaller, but let's give time, the company is registered, if I'm not wrong on February 3rd here. She's gathering. Management has been chosen in Banja Luka. People are starting to work. Let's give them time to do the same to them, to give them the task of doing so in the next period. Thank you. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22458	I thank the gentleman. So, there remains a close co-operation of the Commission with this agency and, what is good is that there is a mood for co-operation and yes, and, if anyone has any information they can ask for, they can get it. I think this report on the work of the State Regulatory Agency for El. In 2005, we should put the Commission's report to the vote, with suggestions, of course, what Mr Raguž and all of us were saying in the debate and at the end of the day and this story, which the colleague finally told. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, with 27 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that we have accepted the report on the work of the State Regulatory Agency for El. Energy in 2005 and the Commission's conclusions. We're going to the 20th point of the agenda. I thank my colleagues from the Derek for the clarifications and for their patience. I think this is an example of a good and correct co-operation with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification (a) The Agreement on Development Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia (b) The Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the navigation of waterways and their marking and maintenance I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. I suggest that we ratify both agreements with one vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I konstatovati that, unanimously with 28 votes in favour, we agreed on ratification: c) of the Development Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia d) of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the sailing of waterways and their marking and maintenance We move to the 21st point of the agenda. Ad.21. The appointment of a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly delegation, instead of Mrs Seada Palavrić, gospođa Sead Palavrić was a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly delegation. Since the parliamentary mandate has ceased, it is our duty to elect another member of the Parliament. The extended college suggests we choose Mr. Beriz Belkić. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm closing the raps. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 27 votes for, no one against and 1 abstention, therefore, we have elected Mr Beriz Belkić to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on behalf of Mrs Seada Palavrić. On behalf of the College, I congratulate him on his new duties and new obligations in the commission. 117 We move to the 22nd item of the agenda. Ad.22. The appointment of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications From the Council of Ministers we received a proposal to appoint Mr Branko Todorović as a member of the Board of Regulatory Agency, instead of Rajko Papović, who resigned from the membership in the council. You've received this proposal from the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Miloš Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22459	...here from the Council of Ministers. I would like to know if Mr. Todorović is on that point list that was made, whether he was right behind Mr. Rajko Popović. If he wasn't, then I'd like to know, so it would define me to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-14-0.u22460	I mean, I can't believe the Council of Ministers would propose someone past the law, but what's mandatory is two months. We have a suggestion, we're sorry we can't get that answer, but I'm asking you to fill in the Regulatory Agency, which has been missing an eight-month board member. This is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which we have received. Is there anyone else to answer for? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 26, no one against, two abstentions. I find that we have chosen Mr Branko Todorović as a member of the Communications Regulatory Agency Council, instead of Rajko Papović, who resigned. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude today's meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to admit, I'm pretty tired like you. I thank you all for contributing today to complete this large agenda and adopt important projects for BiH and its citizens. Thank you very much. On the next session, you will be notified on time. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 7:30.
