ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5712	Dear gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, esteemed representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome you all to the 55th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 11 delegates present at today's session. Of which 4 of the Bosniak people, 3 of the Croatian people and 4 of the Serb people. Mr Hasan Čengić, Boško Šiljegović, Anto Spajić, Branko Zrno are justly absent, as they are prevented from attending the session. For the 55th session, I propose the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2006, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2006, 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. A request from the House of Representatives for the Review of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, Proponents: delegates Halid Genjac, Ilija Filipović and Boško Šiljegović (first reading), 10. Proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons accused and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (first reading), 2 11. Discussion: (a) Reports on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces in peace support operations in 2005, with the conclusion of the BiH Presidency, (b) Decision of the BiH Presidency on sending Bosnia and Herzegovina's police forces to the United Nations Peace Operation in Sudan, 12. A report on the work of the Joint Commission on Oversight of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency for the period April 2004. December 2005, 13. Report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples, 14. Adherence to ratification of the General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 15 / 15 Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2005. - Classified material. So this is a draft agenda. Any changes and additions to the agenda? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5713	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished representatives of the international community and representatives of public information funds, I, the Honored Mr. President, only have intervention in relation to the last item of the agenda, this 15 refers to the Report from 1.6 to 31.12.2004. So in a year, you said 2005. I didn't get that report, I have an old one that applies to 2004.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5714	No Niko got it, because it's classified and it's here as it says in 2005.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5715	Well, I'm asking him to make amends because he doesn't answer the truth. So it's 2004.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5716	Thank you very much. We have such information, I'm sorry. Okay. Please, colleagues, let us respect Mr. Lim's remarks. So there are no objections to changes and additions to the agenda. We adopted. Thank you very much. First item of the Ad agenda. 1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions The answer to the deletative question was received by Mr. Osman Brka. Is Mr. brkati happy with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Brk. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5717	I got the answer, but I have to comment on it. Unfortunately my question was in place, because from the answer I got the condition was worse than I thought when I asked the question. Namely, I have to comment on this for the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5718	Osman, can you just repeat the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5719	The question is the following content – What has the DGS done over the last five years to get the illegal border crossings under control? That's the question. And the answer is the following which the Government determined in 7.2.2006 that the DGS was founded in 6.6.2000 and that it had taken control of the border until 2003 and that it had established, through.../International/forces, the protection of the state border of blue and green through daily activities covered about 430 places where it is possible to cross the state border outside the border. Since the establishment of the DGS, 2,000 employees have been employed. It has about 1,600 kilometers of state border, and it has 89 border crossings under control. So the others are out of control. In line with the capacities available, the human and technical DGS of Bosnia and Herzegovina is intensively controlling the green and blue borders, but there remains a large number of those crossings that are directly without real control. And I'm most startled by the next fact, and that's why I'm commenting on this. It says – that the results of this work would be better, it is necessary to do anything within a shorter period of time to do the following – identify the state border line, mark the border line and prevent places suitable for the illegal crossing of the state border. And the next finding is the hardest. Unfortunately, the DGS of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the leading agency to realise the above-listed needs, but are the same in the jurisdiction of other state authorities and bodies, but is not listed. And why I want to comment on this. I simply cannot accept the fact that this situation as far as DGS is concerned about us as the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is accusing me of many different crimes, and I will only list what concerns me most – the cruelty of this border worries me about drug trafficking. My men, it's a horror. I, the information that comes to me, this unofficially, not officially, but unofficially, so that drug has entered all the pores of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society from Bihac to Zvornik, Trebinj, not to mention Sarajevo and other places. She's nowhere to be found. We need to pass this law quickly, he's procedures I know, but without DGS, without the control of borders with this kind of vulnerability of borders, we won't be able to do anything. I'm afraid someone's trying to completely destroy this society of ours, this youth of ours. I'm afraid of it, and I can't figure out that DGS isn't the leader. She's here, in response she says we're not the lead. So who is it? Name who it is. To call out who he is. You know! I simply comment on this to warn our society of Bosnian Herzegovina, it is neither a national issue nor any question, it is a question of every citizen of this country who cares about normal society to the normal state of the country that this simply must be run from a dead end. She can't tell the DGS that she's not in charge of it and that it's someone else's 4 and that they stay things the way they are. Not to talk about economic crime. I don't want to talk about it. We know how much we lose money for it, etc. Traffic and human trafficking and what I know. I point out this because our society is being ruined without us keeping our mouths shut. We have no right to remain silent. I don't want to keep my mouth shut, I'd ask the public, I'd ask the media to pay attention to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5720	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Now it's one of my questions. You are generally satisfied with the answer, but you are not satisfied with the state of the institution. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5721	How will I be satisfied? A disaster is your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5722	Thank you very much. So Mr. brkati is not satisfied with the answer or the condition.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5723	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5724	Thank you very much. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5725	I, the Honorable Mr. President, will take this opportunity to ask three mutually bound questions to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First question – Is the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina intending to prepare and refer the draft law on political organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to parliamentary procedure? Secondly – If the answer to the previous question is yes – When will we get that proposal of the state law and the Third question – will the future law on political organisation be prohibited from establishing and acting non-fascist organisations, i.e. organisations that seek to organise their fight with the intention of achieving certain political goals by means of terrorism and other means of violence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5726	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here, I would ask that we formulate it and hand it over to the Secretariat. Thank you. Are there any further parliamentary questions? Thank you. We're done with this agenda point. 5 Moving to the second item of the Ad2. The adoption of the minutes of the 54th session of the House of Peoples Is anyone answering for a word? Any objections to the record? I don't see anyone answering. Please vote on the record. Vote now. As far as I can tell, we have a unanimously accepted record. Thank you very much. The third item of the agenda is A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2006 has been given to you by the Joint Commission. The House of Representatives adopted this report. In accordance with Article 90 of The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. Do we? Mr. Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5727	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so I'll only have one sentence for principled reasons. You know that even when I voted on the budget, because of what I had already explained at the time, I voted against such a budget as it was adopted and that, for principle reasons, I would normally not be able to vote for this either.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5728	Thank you very much, Mr. Đoko. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5729	Thank you very much. It is clear from the report of the Joint Commission that the amendment adopted by the House of Nations did not enter the final version for this year, interestingly, since one is an amendment, I have a need to quote it, but the interesting explanation given by the Commission and in which I quote it - that I am a budgetary user, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, did not submit a request for that purpose because it did not use the funds for this purpose planned in the 2005 budget. So, the ministry had funds, but it didn't want them, or it couldn't spend. I would personally like to hear, apart from Čad and Bangladesh, whether there is also a modern state that planned to spend 0 KM, euro dollars, yen or any other banknotes for information and 0 also funds for the development of domestic production and stimulation this year. A fresh example of France, invite the so-called Economic patriotism, etc. There is no record of that, and in that sense, this report is unacceptable to me. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5730	Thank you very much. Please, I think that these things, given that we have discussed and that we have some differences in both homes that we are that the commission has an obligation to bring the texts together, I would now just like to vote on the budget, on this report of the neighbours. Please vote now. So we have a 9 in, 2 against. Our home adopted this report. Thank you very much. The fourth item of the agenda is Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2006 you have received a Joint Commission Report. The House of Representatives passed the report. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples must be voted on by the Joint Committee of both homes. Please vote now. Thank you very much. We have 10 for and, 9 for, 1 for, 1 for, 1 for abstention, excuse me. Thank you very much. So we adopted this. The fifth item of the agenda is Ad.5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure of the House, the House decides on a request to discuss the Law after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted the Law as an emergency procedure, after which the Law was adopted. The amendments don't apply. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Niko one's answering. I am placing a request from the Council of Ministers on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement for consideration, on the basis of a vote. Please vote now. So this is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider amending the Law on Public Procurement unanimously. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Please open the discussion of the law. Is anyone answering for a discussion? Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5731	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, honored guests, I would just like to ask, since there is no material here right now on this bill, I think it refers to an amendment to this deadline for the Office of Appeals, is that possible? Since we have this second bill of law to amend and supplement, I'd like to ask if this deadline is definitely set on March 31st? I read that law, I mean I had it, but I don't have it in the materials here right now. Is that the deadline, is this the law, since we have a second bill under Article 99, and is that definitely the deadline, since we're already on the same page for the fifth time and supplementing this law? And March 31st is on the pier. So I think it's almost pointless to extend.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5732	Thank you very much, Mrs. ruža. Here's the Council of Ministers, I think you're welcome, ma'am. You can come here for a pay phone and introduce yourself and tell me what function you're in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5733	Good afternoon, I am the Director of the Public Procurement Agency and the fact is that the fifth time is adopted, but the reason for this extension that is finally due to the fact that the members of the Board of Appeal have been appointed on December 22nd. Meanwhile, entity ministries that were competent under the Law in the transitional period resolved by complaints, received complaints and resolved. It means that it would not come for formal reasons in court to fall solutions to second-degree cases that were authorized to resolve during this transitional period. On March 31st, there's a cross-section. The appeal office starts working on April 1st.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5734	Thank you very much. I think the explanation is enough. Is it Ružo? Thank you very much, ma'am. Here's the explanation. Any other questions? Thank you very much. I'm putting the law to the vote. Please vote now. The law voted 10, 1 was against it. So the law is passed. Thank you very much. 8 The sixth item of the agenda Ad.6. A request from the House of Representatives for the Review of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for consideration of the Law after the debate. The amendments don't apply. I'm opening a debate, and is anyone answering for a word? First, we vote on whether or not we will consider the law in accordance with Article 100. Vote now. Thank you very much. We have a vote, it seems unanimous, I think I'm just saying. - Nine in, one against. So we're going to consider this law by Article 100. I'm opening a debate about the law. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5735	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, here we have had this law already on amendments and additions to the Law on Human Rights at the session of this House. As I recall, he was adopted at the House of Representatives and at this home in various texts. If that's what it is, it's not mutilated, now it's going again, right? So here I want this opportunity, and I want to say that when we were already in this law in that earlier version of this home, I want to make my point, and I want to bring it to this point. I don't think it's a good idea for human rights refugees to get away from citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have experience on earlier solutions, while they were both refugees in both entities and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we had offices in both larger cities and in Republika Srpska and the Federation, and I know that we had an office in Bijeljina. So also, according to this now applicable law, which is likely to be put out of force after the adoption of this law. The Ombusmen were very close to the citizens. He has experience that in many cases citizens have been asked by these ombsmen who were, not by hand, to help them protect basic human rights and freedoms. I know a lot of examples and a lot of cases, and I wouldn't be counting them now, because I worked in one such association and organization where many human rights and freedoms were violated, and even then none of those who sought the protection of their basic human rights and freedom failed to get protection and to achieve what he was looking for. Even in that sense, according to that law, while these out-of-state assistants of the office were malts not in their hands. This law abolishes the entity's embassies. So those who need to protect fundamental human rights, help these people to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms, get further away from the citizens, and that's why I don't think it's a good solution, and then the last time he was on the agenda he said the same thing, I'm standing behind it, and I don't think it's a good thing that these institutions are so far away from citizens who need to help them protect their fundamental human rights and freedoms, and that's why again. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5736	Thank you very much, Mr. Đoko Pajić. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? He's not answering. I'm putting the law to the vote. Please vote now. He had a final vote. 10 for, 1 against. So the Law of the Ambassadors has been passed. Thank you very much. The seventh item of the agenda is Ad.7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted that the Law is being considered by a shortened procedure, and I pray to you who answers the word? We're only voting on the procedure. Are we going to go through an emergency procedure like, uh, a shortened procedure like the House of Representatives? Do we have any debaters? We don't. We're putting the Council of Ministers to vote. Vote now. - This was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. The eighth item of the agenda is Ad.8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are under discussion whether the Law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted that the Law is being considered by a shortened procedure. Please, is anyone answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting a motion to vote. Please vote now. Therefore, the requirement for the Law to be considered under the shortened procedure was adopted unanimously. The ninth item of the agenda is Ad.9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law, Proponents: delegates Halid Genjac, Ilija Filipović and Boško Šiljegović (first reading) You received the Law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission has adopted 27 amendments which have become an integral part of the text of the Law and which are identical to the amendments in the House of Representatives. 10 This is the first reading of the Law by Article 99. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5737	Respected and respected colleagues, I think it is important to highlight several characteristics of the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which can be said, among other things, that in no country in the world we have had in 10 years seven election cycles. Of course, the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina was largely sponsored, supervised and organised by the international factor of the OSCE's superior mission, so the electoral process of regulating the electoral process was largely influenced by the international factor. The first rules of the electoral process were adopted directly by the OSCE Mission in order to adopt our own law in 2000 as one of the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe and then with the sponsorship of the international community. During all these election cycles, many shortages of electoral regulations have been seen, including those directly created as a result of the OSCE Mission's recommendations, the international community, the practice of refurbishing some solutions on the ground and the need to improve electoral legislation and thus ensure greater integrity of the electoral process. As a result, the establishment of a working group by, within a resolutely out of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe and the Election Commission, and this working group has worked for a long time, for quite a long time, and I think that with today, one process that can be said to be a great success is certainly said to be the result of domestic political factors, so the representatives of these institutions in a completely unburdened dialogue of any apriorities given and any apriorisms. Domestic political factors have discussed solutions and I think that on these fields and fields and segments of electoral legislation where the necessary need to intervene has been reached an agreement and solutions have been found which I believe are both useful and useful. I'm just going to briefly point out in a few moments, not to prevent me from covering everything, but among other things, we've had problems when the mandate of elected officials begins. We also had disputes in court. Whether this is the moment of choice or the moment of body configuration. The electoral law now accurately regulates it. There were questions as to how long one person could carry out the mandate, how many functions he could function. It is now clear that one person can do the most indirectly and one directly selected function. It is because of these domestic structures on entities in the BiH Parliament and that is all. A major procedure in the context of the CIPS project and passive voter registration, which I would say the general requirement for the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina is to ensure maximum protection to voters of the standards that exist in European countries, that by the act of obtaining a ticket, the voter becomes registered on the voter list and with this solution we have this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a major procedure, but I think the proposed solutions to the amendments to the law have in a good way harmonized and everything that will happen with this procedure clearly determining what is in this role the parent offices which provide records of the deceased, etc., born. What is the role of municipal election committees, what is the role of the Central Election Commission and what is the role of the CIPS as 11 factors that technically maintains the Central Election List's record, and what is the role of the Central Election Commission as a factor that maintains the Central Election List. The appeal process inside, an appeal procedure within the election process has also been extended by a more significant procedure. Instead of the Board of Appeals and the bodies that were on the Central Election Commission, the appeal process is now mainly referred to municipal electoral commissions, the Central Election Commission and the Court of Justice's appeal council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is excluded. I believe it's a major procedure. Practice will show if it's even the best procedure, practically certainly is. However, whether this will all be able to absorb all possible complaints and all aspects of the election process in terms of complaints, I believe that this model should be tested on the ground. It has also been confirmed in practice that the duration of the 60-day campaign has proved quite inappropriate for opportunities, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, the unusual solution in other countries is a long-term unsustainable duration of the election campaign, which has often turned into a forced holding of some of the stands on the media that, in turn, no one has had the patience to follow. A 30-day solution will make the election campaign quite certain, at least as far as the media is concerned with clearer, more attention and, of course, will require more responsibility from political entities in performances and far more specificity in the implementation of their political programmes. The issue of censorship and the use of censorship as an instrument is so misunderstood in the previous provision of the Election Law that it also took the role of the Constitutional Court to determine what is meant. It is now perfectly clear by the proposed amendments that the censorship applicable to the compensatory mandates and how they apply to a multi-member electoral unit. I think it's very useful for the intervening of the electoral process. The election group, a working group working on the preparation of this bill, also heard about all votes from the public, several dozen amendments were submitted and several dozen subjects submitted amendments and their opinion on certain solutions in the bill. In view of and respecting all these opinions, the working group and the amendments that entered into the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly have reconsidered their inclusion in the overall scope of the proposed Law and suggested and proposed to the constitutional and legal committees both at home their opinions on the proposed amendments. On constitutional and legal committees, respecting all these echoes of these discussions both in the public and within the working group, are a certain solution, I would say weakened. Certain deadlines have been changed, the election announcement deadline has changed instead of 180 days, now it will be 150 days, if we adopt, of course. Minor cuts were made with regard to the application of candidate lists and the application of political entities to verify the election and as a result, I would say that direct certain discussions in the public censorship of 3% is nevertheless a census of 4%, which originally figured in the work group's solution, however it was reduced to a 3% census. I therefore hold that the proposed solutions contribute to improving the electoral law, improving the integrity of the electoral process, and I think that this bill should be supported today and I think that it should be supported in the second reading, especially when we have these deadlines for which we are related to the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5738	Thank you. Here's what we heard, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Filipović. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5739	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all of you, all of you, all of you who are following our work, especially the gentlemen of the Electoral, Central Election Commission, as they are now called, and I would say just a few words on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Committee who had this on the agenda just before the beginning of this session as a relevant committee. So, since we've come out of some business framework, I don't think I'm negotiating, I don't think it's good, we're not just discussing the principles of this law in the first reading, but we've entered into particulars, I'm not going to repeat this all as an esteemed colleague of Genjac, but I'd just say that through the work of a working group who has been preparing for a long time the amendment and the addition of the Election Law, they've had in mind all the observations, all the views, all the views of the entire NGO interested in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to make observations, to give their opinion to all the political parties that have given their initiatives and individuals beyond all these mentioned structures. So it was all in one valuable, careful observation through the task force and through an election commission that provided this expert, logistic and other support and villa involved in the work of the task force that organised this proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law with all these major changes to the improvements that Mr Genjac spoke of and I would not repeat. At the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission today, we therefore had 27 new amendments tabled by Mr Genjac, who were identical to the amendments accepted at the House of Representatives so that we could have the same text adopted in both homes, so that we do not waste time on harmonisation and sustainable deadlines had published amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, so until the end of this month. I believe that we will also respect the fact that despite the fact that we have today had a Constitutional and Legal Commission and we have the right to act in amendment today at this session to accept in the same form as the Constitutional and Legal Commission has proposed. One more question has been touched, and this last amendment is on Article 106. The law, I have to say it here, so one conclusion has been reached on the Constitutional and Legal Commission in order not to be amended, because there is a commitment by the Federal Legal Commissions, as was previously in the Law, that once these amendments and amendments have been made, the text of the Electoral Law has been passed. I was speaking to the task force at the time, and we were almost there to agree, they accepted it from the election committee as an exact fact, and I then withdrew the amendment, but I suggest that the conclusion be accepted so as to accept how it was promised by the electoral commission, their logistics, technical, professional and other support to keep it this way in the Electoral Law, but that the amendment and addition of the consolidated text is therefore found in constitutional and legal committees so that they could be made public, therefore, and the consolidated text. If we happen to have constitutional amendments, amendments and additions to the Constitution, then it will ask for the amendment and addition of the Election Law, and then we could also have this Article 106, or be somewhat different numbered, to adapt this conclusion that I am asking to accept this home today, as if along with an integral part to be the text that proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission to accept therefore and the principles, to accept also the proposed amendments and full report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission so that we would practically have the Election, Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5740	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Jukić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5741	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, guests, I welcome you all. I will focus on only one question and ask for an explanation from the promoter, and it is precisely the principles which have been governed and which should have been respected in this law by amendments and additions to this law. In fact, the question of the electoral threshold, this question was for me a question of the current solution, and now, the solution seems to me to be the same, or a little corrupt. So it's not fixed, it's not solved. I would like to know what principles the Working Group and the Electoral Commission have conducted when it proposed this solution which is now in this text amending and supplementing the Election Law. So it says here that it's 4% and 3%, it doesn't matter, but what's behind that number, the valid list from the entity area, it's important. Well, I don't really get it, or I'll explain what this means. This means that for the territory of Republika Srpska's entity, the electoral threshold is actually 1%. And the election threshold for the Federation entity is 2%, out of the total number of voters who went to the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as this is about the election of representatives in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. So the election base is Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth is chosen by multi-member electoral units, it is clear, but not mentioned here, but the basis for calculating the electoral threshold is taken by the entity, not Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, in order for any party to cross the RS electoral threshold, it needs twice as many votes as the parties from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if anyone's been dealing with this simple math and calculations, but this is true, these are facts. So I will conclude a different standard has been established for the Federation and Republika Srpska parties. I think this is a very bad solution. If it was already meant for someone to relativize and reduce the electoral threshold, then it is done in another way to be a smaller number, a smaller percentage, and not this way. So it was very controversial that 3 or 4. It's not a dispute for me, it's a dispute for me that it's not 3 or 4, but it's 1 and 2%. It's very simple math. You don't need that, that math is taught in elementary school. But mathematics is an exact science, but this is about achieving unequal standards in two parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I find this unacceptable, a very bad solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5742	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. I am, would it be good for Limov to hear the gentlemen of the Electoral Commission, if you have an explanation for this question. This is a serious question and this is a matter that I clearly need, it seems clear to me. If this is what Mr. Jukić says, which is when it counts that way, then we're back under one serious problem and I'm asking the gentlemen yes. It's from the executive commission, or. First you'll get these out. Amra represents, I'm glad we know. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5743	I think Mrs. Lidija will complement me. And I, in fact, will make it very clear in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that MPs with two constituencies are elected for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. One electoral unit is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which chooses 28th and other electoral units is the RS that chooses 14. So that's a fact. When you look at the situation with the number of voters within one and within the other constituency and when you look at the number of elected Members within and within the other, MPs who are elected within one and within the other constituency, mathematics is not at all what it looks like at first glance. So these are two separate constituencies from which 28 and 14 delegates are selected separately. And for each of these electoral units, of the total voters from the Federation, to remind us of the last elections, it was about 600 and a few thousand in RS something less than 500, close to 500 thousand. So in the Federation 6x3=18000, in RS 5x3=15 000, for each of these units autonomously. So without any connection in terms of one, two, three. For each of these constituencies, political entities to participate, so that they can participate in the allocation of compensatory mandates from that area that are once again special must have those 3% of the votes won. Inside the electoral unit as the main constituency, as election units to be elected, the RS's multi-member electoral units are the 3 in the Federation of 5 constituencies. Three, four and five MPs are selected from these constituencies. In order to participate in the allocation of mandates within these multi-member electoral units, there must be at least 3% in order to get into the debate at all. However, as regards this concept from the entity area, I think that there is a clear situation, since the Constitution sets out two electoral units for the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one or more entities, and since for those two entities, for these two electoral units, there is a real compensation list, one compensation list, another compensation list, in order to qualify for participation in one compensation list, or another compensation list, a 3% vote must be won in one constituency unit, i.e. another electoral unit, unrelated and without any mutual conditions with the election of 1.2%. So it has to have 3% there to participate, 3% in another entity, to participate here. And here I think it's quite correct, that it's perfectly clear mathematical and that it's completely, so it's simply not possible in any way to state the claim that some difference has been made in achieving a position or easier. There's no way to talk about it. It's very simple, since the Constitution has defined that two electoral units.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5744	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mrs. Lidija and the company are behind these explanations. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you very much. The gentleman still wants a replica, is he?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5745	Well, it's not a replica, but it's not an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5746	Okay. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5747	Namely, I did not enter what was written in the Constitution. I'm just saying what the law treats, how the law, how the Electoral Law determines the electoral threshold and how it is realized in reality. And now I'm gonna do it again. So, although there are no precise data as many residents or voters live in one, as in another entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, yet the approximate ratio is about 1:2, or 2:1. And that means when this is translated into numbers that that's what I said at the beginning, I'm going to do it again. In order for a party to do so, the assumption should again be that it goes to elections equal in both entities. We can't calculate now if it comes out in one five, in the other I don't know how many percent more, etc. So the assumption is that the response is the same. That's when I'm going to repeat, that's what I said to qualify, that is, for the previous election threshold in the Federation needs two times as many votes. That's a fact. Now the question is this your question of Genjac and your logic as much as you need to connect one higher constituency and another, as much as you need to connect this number of votes in one and another entity. Why? Because voters, voters in one of the senior constituencies are the only ones who compete with each other, so the candidates choose one or the other candidate, or the third or the fifth. So it also has connections and voting in both entities and it's important how much total it means, otherwise the purpose of the electoral threshold is predictable. So the point is that several people carry a number of votes in percentage and do not cross that threshold, do not participate in the distribution of compensation Madames. And the basic meaning, the task of this electoral threshold is not done in this way, because parties in RS are privileged, they need twice, assuming equal number of responses, etc., they need twice as many votes to cross the electoral threshold, rather than parties to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's the basic meaning of the electoral threshold, because it is no longer when all of BiH is considered as the electoral body voting in the elections, etc. It's not 3, but it's 1, or it's not 3, but it's 2 as much as it is in the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5748	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5749	Thank you, Mr. President, I will not, of course, enter these mathematical arguments, both sides. The fact is that when you apply one percent to two different, in this case the electoral unit, the different numbers are quite logical that they will also have elements that are spoken of by counterpart Jukić. However, I would like to say, first of all, that I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, respecting all the arguments that went in the direction that, within a certain period that has been clearly established, we are all contributing to achieving what is possible at this stage, and in terms of the appropriate solutions through the Election Law, and in order for our elections provided for in the beginning of October this year to be carried out in accordance with the solutions to these new electoral solutions. And that defined me, first of all, to give support and we on the Constitutional and Legal Commission of all these 27 amendments, which were set out in the House of Representatives themselves, therefore we unanimously supported it. 16 And of course I'll do it the same way here, regardless of the fact that I'm aware that it's possible to find a different solution, but it's an obvious degree of concentration that we could have come to at this stage, and it's about this problem that we have ahead of us. I also hope that we will have a need and opportunity for further interventions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law very quickly, and on the basis of a project called constitutional changes that we are less or more familiar with these days, at least until this stage, and here are the concrete amendments that we will see how things are going to go. Nevertheless, I have had 12 amendments and in one way or another about a third of my amendments have been accepted and has become an integral part of what is today a subject of debate and I can say that I am in principle in favour of what are called principles, or the principles of this law, and I want to use this opportunity to express my regret as another principle so-called. The positive discrimination in terms of content did not get another element, which is when we already apply it to women, mine, my thinking went in the direction that this principle so-called. We also apply positive discrimination to young people, and I hope that you do not need to be particularly clarified, because the fact that we are at the state level in whether we do not have a single young man for up to 30 years at the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, in my amendment, I sought to represent that population for up to 35 years. So it stays the way it is. There have been certain initiatives and by certain organisations, associations, etc. I also hope that these initiatives have come to you, but unfortunately this principle of positive discrimination will not be applied to a young generation, and I would not like to have them answer me now through the dilemmas about whether we are getting into the Convention on Human Rights, because if we hit it, then we also get into women, and I don't even think about it, although I know that the working group has been going even in the direction of reducing that percentage and women themselves, so here's the luck that didn't happen. So, I don't want to question this principle of positive discrimination, but I regret that we are not in a position to allow a young generation to be represented in the highest legislative body in the country, of course, at other levels of government. I am also aware of the fact that 22% of young people were on the lists in the previous elections and that 12% entered the relevant, to the lower level of the legislative authority. I don't think that's enough, given the fact that young people up to 30 years are 20%. In the end, we don't choose by putting on the right lists, we give the possibility of having that one wider choice. In any case, regardless of what I said and, regardless of what we have come through the debate of my predecessors in the debate, I say I will support that we today, the commitment that we have come to these new solutions today and that the electoral law can, through the publication in the Official Messenger of BiH, enable, therefore, the movement, above all those deadlines, which are indicated by my predecessors and in the content itself, to enable, therefore, in one dynamic, to go to elections with new solutions in the BiH Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5750	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, no one's answering anymore. Djoco, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5751	Gentlemen delegates, honored guests, I am in principle today on the Constitutional and Legal Commission supporting the principles and principles of law. Of course, I will vote in favour of all this, but I would take another opportunity to attend the BiH Election 17 Commission members, namely what will be called the Central Election Commission in the future to ask them for it and to point out, I was talking about it when the report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 work was held. Of course, after the adoption of this law and in the conduct of the elections itself, there will continue to be, of course, rules, instructions and others, issued by the Central Election Commission, in order to make it easier, simpler to conduct these upcoming elections, which will be in function of course, to assist all political entities and all who participate in the electoral process. I would suggest once again that you keep an eye on these rules, instructions, so that what happened in the previous elections doesn't happen. I said, you may have forgotten, but I'll do it one more time. Of course, there have been instructions to draw up political entities through the drawup to get certain polling stations, where they can run for election board members, and that's all right and it goes correctly, and then after that, political entities are going to propose members of election committees, of course making sure that they meet the legal requirements, which are prescribed by law, taking care of everything, experienced, educated, etc. You must make sure you do not leave that part of the self-will of the president, the secretary and members of the municipal election committees. Let me remind you again, it's all done and I have experience that they've complicated the bar in the constituency where I am. These individuals from the municipal election committees, not that they helped make these elections as easy and as easy as possible, but were deliberately favouring certain political parties, discriminating other political parties, making it so difficult for people, I don't know what term to say, shut down, I don't know what term to find, such an approach of certain members of municipal election committees. When I proposed members of the election committees, of course, we made sure, I had experience, I worked on it, of course, for those polling stations that I got candidates for, I made sure that they were experienced people, educated people, that wherever possible from that polling spot where I got a candidate for the election board to be from that polling post. So far, the proposal is that one member of the municipal electoral commission says it's not true what you suggested I make your hat, as I make it for you, so it will be, so from one polling post, let's say, let's assume the 105th of my candidate I proposed transferred to the polling post 42, 50 km away, and the one with the one, so that people were wandering, they had to travel 40-50 km, and instead of being there where he was suggested, that it was there, etc. I think you've got the point. Manipulations and malfeasances should be prevented for the presidents and members of municipal election committees to do whatever they want. To enable political entities and all to respect the proposals of political entities there, which are in line and which will be in line with the BiH Electoral Law. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5752	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. I think we've had a lot of discussion, maybe a little bit of a mix-up, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5753	I'd just like to before the rapture is concluded, I'd really like to hear from Mr. Jukić's expressed suspicions. I believe everyone here knows more about math than I do. I'm not a mathematician, but compared to what Mr. Jukić said, the electoral threshold should practically have a differentiated, one electoral threshold for a smaller constituency, and the other 18 threshold somewhat lower that already these five electoral units, in order to achieve what we predicted to have 3%. So, if that's calculated correctly, I'd like it to be, say those who count the mandates, it's the Election Commission, because their only calculation is valid, everything else is our calculation. So, to tell us how justified this suspicion is that this electoral threshold in the RS is, in three constituencies, basically 1%, and in the Federation, in these five electoral units, compared to the allocation of compensation mandates, so we understand each other, is that 2%, that's not 3%, that's not 4% as it was in the proposal, but like this. So, I'd like to be on full alert, if that's what this suspicion really is, let's go change something, we have time to change something in the Electoral Law. The session of the House of Representatives will be held at the beginning of the 4th month, select committees in both homes and agree to re-publish in a timely manner, so that we can have an election announcement of 150 days, is it true, let's remove these doubts. If there are doubts, we can act in amendment today, if you convince us that mathematics is good in relation to the proposed solution accepted in both homes 3% of the electoral threshold and the allocation of compensatory mandates, which refer to those that cross the electoral threshold in the entity, means, the Federation in all five electoral units and in the other entity in all three constituencies, if so, then we sleep peacefully after this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5754	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5755	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the House of Peoples, delegates of the House of Peoples, I am Suad Arnautović, a member of the BiH Election Commission. I thank you for your opportunity to address this high house. Before a concrete answer, if you allow a few just principled things. So, as the predecessors said, we managed to reach one final text of the amendment to the electoral law, it was long worked within the working group. Four members of the Electoral Commission, four professional members of the Election Commission have been from the very beginning in the work group and we have contributed as much as we could to such solutions. This is, as the distinguished delegate Limov said, one stage, which does not satisfy the end of the requirements of international conventions, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, but this is a question closely related to the issue of the Constitution, so that at the beginning we immediately agreed that we would go to these amendments to the Election Law, which would allow us to fix everything in a technical sense, not touching constitutional solutions, because it was an objective obstacle for us. One of these shortcomings, what the distinguished delegate Jukić said, a question of one of the basic principles, of five principles of electoral law, the principle of equality of voters, or equal voting rights. Let me just remind you that you also know this law in this regard also contains all other principles, so the principle of free elections, the principle of direct elections, the principle of secret elections, the principle of general elections and the principle of equal choices in accordance with the Constitution. What does that mean? In a concrete question, Article 74, which speaks of Article 9.7 of the basic text of the Electoral Law, found that the threshold of 3%, therefore, of the valid ballots, is to determine 3% for the area of the entity for which the compensation list is made up. Why did this have to be specified? As the esteemed delegate Genjac said in the 2002 general elections, we had one different interpretation of the application of the compensation mandates, which even came to the Court of Justice and, according to the Court's ruling, the Court supported the election commission's position at the time. Basically, or let me make it simple, this was what was going on. So the electoral threshold was treated for a single-member election 19 unit. So, not for the entire entity electoral unit. In this way and in this present home, and also in the House of Representatives, MPs, who, objectively did not win, did not cross the electoral threshold. The MPs who had come, according to our budget, 1.8 - 2.3 votes, etc. If you remember then 7 or 8 parties sued, complained of this interpretation, etc. And the Court ruled as he had decreed. We have now stopped at the point that we need to fully specify it and I think with this mathematics will be pure, but what Mr. Jukić says, it is true that there will be different numbers. However, different constituencies are different. So here it's an electoral unit as an entity as a whole. She gives the actual number of MPs. From RS comes 14 out of that 9 direct, five compensatory to the current solution, if we don't change that. From the Federation comes 28, of which 21 direct, 7 compensatory. Therefore, the Federation is considered one electoral unit, the RS as another electoral unit and, that I am now a little complicated. In that single constituency, for example. in RS, you have the difference between multi-member electoral units. We're doing that calculation right now. He's after this passive registration, he's gonna make a big difference. Namely, between the multi-member electoral unit itself, so you have, if we take RS between Election Unit 1, it's from an opportunity there Krajina – Banja Luka etc. And constituency 3, that's the South RS, you're going to have a difference of about 100,000 examples for votes, according to current data, we're going to see finally, so please take it conditionally, but you have the difference between that constituency that gives three direct delegates and this last one that also gives three. You understand, it's not the principle of equality, the principle of equality is not the same. It's not respected. But when it comes to it, there's time to fix it. However, this principle, answer in Article 9.7. 3% is compared to the election unit. The electoral unit you know is the number of voters of the constituency in one and the other is different. I don't know if I am, I have figures here that I can throw out to you, but I want to express the position of the BiH Election Commission, so, as far as we're concerned, math here will be clear and 3% of the total number of valid ballots for the entity area will be applied in the allocation of compensation mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5756	Thank you, Mr. Arnautović. Here comes Mr. Jukić again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5757	I thank Mr Arnautović, who brought us back to history a little while ago, since we were not four years old. So it was in the fall, late autumn of 2002. So it was said that the Electoral Commission had done it at the time. I don't think it's properly respected. But she did better than this, as she now proposes in law. Here's why. Because then you applied one false principle, but for everything equally. So for all election units throughout BiH, and now you're making an unequal standard in entities and it's not acceptable, it's certainly not acceptable. Why? Because I'm going to repeat in the RS entity, assuming the same election date, that assumption always stands, I'm going to need, I'm going to repeat, twice as many voters to cross the electoral threshold. That's clear. So, a party from the Federation of BiH to cross the electoral threshold, assuming the general procedure to go to the polls, will need to win twice as many votes to cross the electoral threshold. And what was done before, and that's why it passed in court, you asked equally for everything. So you took one, in my opinion, bad principle and interpretation, but you applied it to all election units, 20 that was okay and correct. This isn't right and it's not right. In all the countries in the world, if there is at all an electoral threshold, which has, above all, a compatible function, so it is he who says below that percentage total voters have not qualified. He will be, I will repeat it again here, if 3% is here and now it says in article 75, at entity level, it is 1% at BiH level for RS and 2% at BiH level for the Federation of BiH. So these are facts, and I think that this is inconsistencies, different standards, and this can't go through and this needs to change urgently, and there's no problem that it just writes at BiH level here, and the other thing remains the same. Let's make sure that I don't know that either, and I don't know the compensation list at entity level, so let's make that choice, if I can... it would be better, etc. So, all you have to do is change the word or part of a sentence that says at BiH level, and then you know what it is, is the number of voters at BiH level, but then it's calculated... the entity by percentage and it has to be, it ensures the principle of equal rights, so that someone is qualified to win the same number of votes at BiH level, and then there's no discrimination, maybe it's a difficult word, but every inequality on some basis is discrimination or irregular.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5758	Thank you very much. Dr. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5759	Just a little bit of what Mr. Jukić put out about the percentage dilemma around this threshold. He's right if he's being watched on one side. However, as far as I can see, Mr Jukić insists that, in fact or at BiH level, practice is being determined, I find it unacceptable, given that separate entities and delegations, or entity MPs, are also coming from the entity, and that the absolute number of voters, which will be the quota for this. But I think the base from which the 3% is drawn is ignored, because we can't determine. If that is the 15,000 votes threshold for both entity and other entity, then the parties from the RS that would come would be in an unfavourable position to win those 15,000 votes, given that their base from which those 15,000 are coming is smaller, so in my opinion, this threshold has somewhat balanced that, because there is a larger base here and from that base they need to get more votes than from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5760	Thank you, Dr. President. Radovanovic. Lidija, you wanted to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5761	Dear Chairman, the captured envoys of the House of Peoples, I am indeed pleased to try to make my contribution to resolve this issue, which is being asked today. First of all, I would like to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Commission did not do wrong in the general election of the mandate, and I want it to remain recorded for the election commission. We simply applied the law the way the law was formulated and that provision of the law. For these very reasons, I repeat, the BiH Court of Justice has confirmed the right position of the Electoral Commission. So that we would not have come to this situation if we had objections and political parties and, above all, the citizens of BiH, who felt that it was not in line with the electoral rules that someone who won a few hundred votes would get a mandate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or in the assembly... but here I am now going to cross concretely. A colleague from the RS spoke very clearly and precisely, and I think his mathematics is quite accurate. I will remind you that according to the current constitutional arrangement, exactly 21 for a mandate from the RS is needed again, if we consider that the 100 per cent electoral body went to the polls, it requires 85,714 votes for the same term in the Federation's parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 75,000. So, more votes from the RS are needed for one term in the BiH Parliament. What Mr. Jukić suggests is the introduction of a new, new electoral unit, which is contrary to the BiH Constitution, there are two electoral units, the RS Electoral Unit, the Federation Electoral Unit. A new third electoral unit for the allocation of compensation mandates cannot be introduced, as this would be contrary to the BiH Constitution. 3% is always 3%. This would be contrary to both the BiH Constitution and all international standards and generally accepted principles of electoral right to introduce an unequal electoral right, and above all there is no bill that 1% in the RS, 2% in the Federation, so that from the position of the Election Commission and what the Election Commission has so far shown in the implementation of the Election Law and the implementation of the elections, I think there is absolutely no fact that there would be a discriminatory position of the holder of the mandate, or potential holders of a mandate from the Federation compared to those in the RS, because just to remind the ratio of the electoral body in the Federation is about two million and a hundred, and in the RS million and two hundred. 14 MPs are elected from RS, 28 from the Federation. I think it's enough to indicate that this bill just doesn't stand. And, if you'll excuse me, I know it's not my mandate, but on behalf of the Electoral Commission, I would like you to support the bill's proposal, with amendments already passed in the House of Representatives, in the interest of BiH citizens, so that we can announce the elections in the manner prescribed by the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5762	Jukić's picking up again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5763	Well, I'm gonna have to do it again if I didn't mean to talk about math here, but I have to. So now what you said, you just confirmed everything I said. So, 3% of the electoral body, as far as it is according to the RS census, is 36,000 and 62,000 in the Federation. I've said everything. So, in order for someone in the Federation to cross 3% should win 62 per you, so this is your data, it should win 62,000 votes, and in RS 36,000 votes, I think it's all clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5764	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Let's hear it. Mr. Genjac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5765	I think it's the wrong match, please. 3% in one entity and 3% in another entity, same number as percent. It can't be any more correct. Of course, in one entity 3% means more votes, in another entity means fewer votes. One entity needs more votes by 3%, the other by 3%, but we ignore only one thing, but the possibility of winning more in one entity and the other by less, because the number of voters is higher and the offer and the possibility is greater. Namely, the point is that. It's just the principle of making analogy with entity parliaments. Let's start with the entity parliaments. You know, we have entity parliaments with 22 MPs, with their number of voters and their 3% and one and another entity. In both entities, it takes a different number of votes to qualify for compensation in entity parliaments. That's just fine. The same is right for this parliament, because two systems are divided. Namely, it's two systems. That's two systems. One system has its own number of voters, its number of mandates and its 3% percentage. The second system has its number of mandates, its number of voters and its 3% percentage. Within that system for all political entities and all political players, who are on... are the same rules and is the same principle within that system. Within the other system are the same players, the same rules, etc. So it's just the point in the next one. 3% really means 30 here, 60 grand here. But over here, there's a double offer and a possibility, a bigger base, because let's put, let's do, let's put the RS to 3%, in the Federation it takes 1%, because, well, since there's a higher number of voters here, so let's say some tendency would be that the party has 20 thousand and 20 thousand the same number of votes there and qualify with the same absolute number of votes, but only then would it be unfair, because the Federation's party with a double bid of voters should win the same number of votes as a party in RS that has a double number of voters, and it has to achieve the same absolute number, it would be twice unfair. So this is the same percentage for two systems, but the different number of voters determines and that's the essence. It's not there.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5766	Look, we're a little bit west, this whenever someone says something, then motivates me again to talk a little bit wider, I didn't mean to talk at all. These comparisons, Mr. Genjac, they weren't good at all and they don't stand here. When you mentioned the election of parliament in the Federation and RS. These are two wholes completely separate in terms of forming that level of government. There's nothing to do with each other, be careful. This is where one government is formed, one parliament, the truth from two parts, but let's put the same standards in those two parts. So you're wrong when you compare those two in no way. We're talking about BiH here, as a space from which BiH's MPs are elected. I'll repeat, if we're putting the electoral threshold, which is, above all, a provoking nature to say someone who hasn't won a certain percentage, we said 3% or converted into absolute figures, per voter pass. It's known how true that is, then that's the point, and now whoever didn't win it has crossed that threshold can't qualify. So here we're going to make this solution one inequality or asymmetrical or unstandard with two different standards in two entities and that's that. This is, as much as anyone has studied mathematics, I've really graduated from technical college, so I've studied a little bit of mathematics, but it's math for elementary school and high school, it's not math for some higher math, so these are percentages, it's very simple and let's not say that it's equal to what's not equal, or say it's equal to standard that's not equal to standard. Let's face it, it's not like that, and let's just say that maybe it's a compromise deal as a solution, okay? I claim it is not equal to the standard and to cross the electoral threshold, the assumption would all... elections in the RS would take 30 and I don't know how many thousands of votes, in the Federation 60 thousand votes. These are the facts of my people. Therefore, a political party, as one political party, should win so many, this large or reduced by the percentage of outings that go to the elections. These are facts, and now we can talk about how solutions are our constitutional not perfect or perfect, etc., but also when they are like this without mentioning them, without touching them, let's just introduce equal standards in both parts of BiH. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5767	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Here's Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5768	Dear Presidency, fellow delegates, guests, I should really justify my statement, given the fact that, indeed, I am inspecting the mathematical education of fellow Jukić in relation to mine. However, I also fully agree with him that this is no higher mathematics and, indeed, I also respect the insights of fellow Jukić, who is making it, but don't really blame me on the wrong premise, on the wrong assumption, and the assumption is so much so that this Jukicov, this remark would indeed stand if, on these figures that we have absolute or relative voters in election bodies in two constituencies, have the same number of MPs, who are elected for Parliament. If both RS and the Federation were to choose 14 or... here's to get the numbers. There are 2,100,000 voters in the Federation in RS, 1,200,000 voters. This would be if from these numbers, if the parties from the RS or the Federation should come from these different numbers of voters to win the same number of seats, then it would be an injustice. Then you could say it takes twice as much in the Federation. It says that several per cent needs more voters in the RS, because 14 MPs are elected from the RS and 28 from the Federation. My colleague Jukić, however you set up 3% would be if we had one constituency. That it's an election unit, and we have different demands. However, 3% can apply as foreseen by the Electoral Law, because we have 28 parties are actually equal from the Federation because they compete or fight to win out of two million and 100 thousand potential voters the 28 seats in Parliament, while RS parties from millions and two hundred thousand potential voters should secure 14 seats in parliament. If it were the same number of seats to be won, then it would be this injustice. My friend Jukić, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5769	Thank you. Please, I've got Jukić here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5770	I mean, Mr. Hilmo doesn't stand up to you in any way your basic setting, and that's who designed this model, and I don't know, I don't know, this many voters from one entity area, the other from the other, from the opportunity and proportionally determined the number of representatives, from like two to one, that's okay. It's around here somewhere. We said, I don't know anything more about a member of parliament from the RS, but very little more. But what is the basic sense, we don't get into those traps. What is the basic meaning of the electoral threshold, which is prohibitive, is that no equal standards have been established in entities, and I will repeat it for crossing the electoral threshold in the Federation of BiH entity needs two times as many votes as in RS. A greater possibility, and then we are not talking about an election threshold at BiH level, but at entity level and the political party is every political party for itself. She struggles to win the mandates and I will repeat when we recalculate the 3% electoral threshold per entity, we get that it is 1% for RS of the total number and 2% for the Federation of total numbers and these are facts and that is the real electoral threshold for this law in BiH. I don't think he's anywhere like that, and I think he's a bit of a low-value loser, but that's our will, that's the will of all of us, and that's how it's gonna be. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5771	I fully understand the reasons Jukić insists on, but 3% in the Federation is worth twice as much as 3% in RS. If he wins 60,000 votes, two seats, and if he wins 30,000 in RS, he gets one seat. In these relations, counterpart Jukić, 30%, or, say, 50% of the electoral seats won in the Federation, brings 14 seats, so as many as the entire RS electoral body. That's why Mr. Jukić reacts. Don't mind your fellow Jukić. What stands, where injustice stands, is not one electoral unit in compensation. It can't be balanced, of course. But 3% in the Federation and 3% absolutely have that value.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5772	We have an anomaly in the organization of a state that cannot withstand mathematics. That's what's really important here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5773	I'd just like to explain a little more of what I was saying earlier. I think it is unacceptable and here, Mrs Lidija said that the electoral threshold cannot be established at BiH level, given the structure of BiH and the Constitution, and it is impossible to assume now something that would apply to BiH. So let's throw it away as a possibility. As far as entity level is concerned, we can do it two ways first, and I think this is a way of making it more right and fairer and more prudential. If we go to absolute amounts of what Mr. Jukić advocates to be 25-30 thousand voters in both entity and entity, then we place the party in a more unfavourable position from another entity. Because it's much harder to win 30,000 votes at a million-dollar base than 30 votes with a two-million-dollar base. It's so clear that I really don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5774	Please, nice. I think we have one situation that we have, and here we are going to think a little bit more, but if we were to vote on the electoral law in the first reading, we hadn't voted on it yet. Please, colleagues, are we all. Do we have a quorum? We have a quorum. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law in the first reading of the vote. Please vote now. There's something messed up here. Nine's in. It turns out we're unanimous here, and it seems to me that there were some coziness. Thank you very much. So let's now vote on whether or not we're going to discuss the law in the second reading. Please vote now. Something's wrong. So it is. 9 is for, and no one is abstentioned. So, let's go to the hearing. We adopted a discussion in another reading. The second reading discusses amendments, and we vote on the law. There were no new amendments to the bill. Is anyone else answering for word now? Heard the discussion. We've discussed 25 well enough and good enough. Now we have, please, anyone else answering for a discussion? He's not answering. I'm asking you to make a statement about the law. Vote now. Again, the Law of Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law was adopted here unanimously. Thank you very much. So we passed this law of amendment and addition and the law was passed in the same text as was adopted at the House of Representatives. Ad.10. A proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, persons involved in helping persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, first question you received the law as well as a report by the competent commission. The Commission has adopted 15 amendments, which have become an integral part of the text of the law and which are identical to the amendments in the House of Representatives. This is the first law reading. The debate of necessity and principles on which the law is based is first conducted under Article 99. Is anyone picking up? Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5775	I'd like to brief you on that. So that today, too, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has also considered the proposal of this law and I will say only the treasure. So, thanks to the attention of the OHR expert-legal team, who has warned in good time about certain shortcomings in this short law, which had a total of 11 articles with transitional and final provisions and thanks to this careful reading and good intentions that this law that regulates, therefore, the bill regulates important things, so on the one hand, the blockade of the property of those who are accused, is still being sought, because they have not arrived at the International Criminal Court and, on the other hand, provisional measures are being made for those who help those who are on the run, that they did not come where they belong. So, it's a very important law. So these remarks and these amendments, these 15 amendments, therefore, are welcome to come to a very consistent text, it was meant by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, without Mrs Stojanović, who was the proposing of these amendments. These amendments are identical to the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has accepted these amendments as valid, as good and we have a proposal for this law with accepted identical amendments on our commission, as it has been in the House of Representatives. In this report that you have received, if someone has carefully read it, given the speed of work, a small technical error has been stolen, which you will respect and I beg you, I apologize on behalf of the technical team that did this report. Finally, you have here behind article 20, says the Commission has accepted it by majority of votes, which is true and is then called on to propose amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. It is not a proposal to amend and supplement the Election Law, but rather a proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission recommends that the House accept this report and bring in the second reading, therefore, this law with the amendments adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5776	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Đoko Pajić answered the words. Technical error, all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5777	My colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests once again, I am on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I must say I voted against the adoption of such a law. Here, I'll explain it a little bit and more. The initial text of the bill, when we discussed constitutional ground on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, then I expressed the reserve according to the initial text of this law, because the Constitution does not allow the violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and in the initial text of the proposal, and even in this amendment, there are elements and members of the laws that allow and which, most likely, will lead to violations of the basic human rights and freedoms of the citizens of BiH, here is why. First, I said the position... on the Commission I said that we were now discussing that initial proposal of this law, which was sent by the Council of Ministers, and we received 15 amendments to 12 members of this law. It's not really that anymore. This is, in fact, one through these amendments, one completely, seems to me to be the law. I think it was more logical that this initial bill was withdrawn and that the Council of Ministers referred to the parliamentary procedure a new and more high-quality bill, which I would probably be investing in amendments to, but I said it was not logical and I did not want to apply in principle amendments to my colleagues' amendments to the proposal for this law. I want to say why I should not vote, because it remains and through these amendments to the Bill's proposal remains certain members who are contrary to some other laws are not in line, let's whether or not it is necessary, but I think BiH's Criminal Law regulates that matter. So it was absolutely not necessary to pass this law, because we have the Criminal Law of BiH, which also regulates this matter. And, by this law and through the amendments to the proposal for this law, we will again have such a law, which is contrary to the Criminal Law of BiH. Take and see Article 233(2). Criminal law of BiH and compare this law and you will see that the member, this member, is contrary to Article 233(2). The BiH Penal Code. Second, another large number of members, such as Article 12, Article 15, Article 16, etc. who, by applying which they are confusing, unclear, needs an extremely large expert, a lawyer to make it all a matter of how what will be applied to whom they will apply, who will be the exception to who they will not, etc. I don't think, for these and many other reasons, this law isn't well engaged, it's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5778	We heard Mr. Đoka Pajić. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Limov, welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5779	Well, I won't be long, of course, understanding that we're working in one breath, at a rate that is. I do not have a dilemma about whether this law should be passed and, indeed, I thank my colleague Stojanović, who, by reference to these amendments, has allowed us to get one law which 27 of which, first of all, bear in mind the fact that at the House of Representatives was adopted in the same text, whose application will be able to be implemented very soon. I think it would be good for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to at least our home, since when it gets the law, regardless of who the Proposer is, unless it's technically in that sense, unless the uniform rules are respected, which we adopted to return it to the Proposer. This time, therefore, I have no dilemma, I will support with amendments that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has also accepted, I will support the vote of this law, but I would like to conclude that, in any event, that it should be accepted, first of all by the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and here we are six, to take care of it and to return when these unique rules are not respected, because otherwise we have brought them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5780	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. Please vote on this law in the first reading please vote now. Thank you very much. So 10 for, 1 against. We passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. Is anyone picking up? Since we've discussed everything, Mr Filipović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5781	Just another question, about the Rules of Procedure. So I have to react. Mr Tomo said that the remark was not to respect the uniform rules for the drafting of the legal rules that we have adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I must say that a mistake here in terms of violating these unique rules for the making of legal regulations has been made by the Proposer, which is the Council of Ministers. Mrs. ruža Stojanović's amendments are in line with the rules on the making of legal rules, and I want to say that because of the lady who has quite rightly done the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5782	Thank you very much. Mr. Đoko Pajić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5783	Well, in the end, I'd just like one more confirmation of my attitude. I'm a delegate from the RS and I have the institutions of the RS. I have one view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that very seriously sets the justification of a law like this, here in the last position says that the law is more like a decision, which has a political, not a real background behind it, and especially for persons who assist war crimes indictees, who are inaccessible to The Hague. Therefore, I have the same opinion as the Government Act of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5784	Thank you very much. Do we have Mrs. Ružo?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5785	I'm sorry to have to use this replica to address Mr. Pajić, but this is the position on the bill we had and which is addressed in parliamentary procedure by the Council of Ministers. This law is completely different, completely. Whoever read this, I don't think there's a single member left in the original law. It's essentially a whole 28 new law, which is consistent with all the facts as much as I have information, so I don't think this observation would stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5786	Thank you very much. Mr. Halid Genjac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5787	I think this is the time to tell what has been achieved with these amendments. The amendments have been made to extend the scope of the law, to comply with European Union standards, to comply with BiH's criminal legislation, and, ultimately, with these rules of ours that exist in the Parliamentary Assembly. Watch out, there's no empty rhetoric behind these goals. Each of these objectives is covered by a very precise and clear documentation either by the European Union or by the UN Organization. With regard to the scope of the law with these amendments, it is possible that, when the UN organisation determines the application of international restrictive measures, which BiH is required to implement as a member, or when BiH joins such measures by the European Union, these amendments allow both sanctions and the situation. The next thing, when it comes to standardisation in accordance with European standards in this area, amendments allow, therefore, amendments to allow the proposed law to be fully in line with the guidelines on the application and evaluation of restrictive measures under the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union. Eh, now, I really liked to hear the reasoning of an authority, some BiH institution that is against these principles and these goals. On what grounds to base this reasoning and on what to base these reasons against such goals and such a law. On the other hand, some solutions that are less or more controversially controversial would be good if we had counter-amendments, so we might be able to declare amendments that correct a certain suggestion. I don't think it's a good principle to generally challenge the law. The law is extremely important. It is one of our conditions, which we must meet and I think the proposed amendments achieve goals, which I don't see have the basis to dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5788	Thank you very much. No more debates. He can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5789	You see, Article 3. The proposal to amend and supplement the bill, that is, Amendment 4 to Article 3(1)(b) and you will see that it is directly contrary to Article 133(2). The BiH Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5790	Thank you. We heard all the discussions. 29 I'll put the law to the vote. Please vote now. The bill was passed, 10 for and 1 against. The law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Ad.11. Discussing the report on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members in peace support operations in 2005, with the presidency's conclusions b) Decision of the BiH Presidency on sending BiH police forces to the support operation... The UN in Sudan, do we have a report? The Joint Commission report you received. The House of Representatives passed the report. Is there anyone to answer for? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5791	Is there a representative of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5792	I asked, so he's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5793	Proposer of a document from the Ministry of Defence. If he's gonna get the word first, then I'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5794	I'm sorry, Limov. I thought it was all one thing. They represent the Presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5795	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I didn't expect to have to expose myself, but today it's not a problem, because we are the authors of this text, but then we appeared, as the House of Representatives and the Commission have been said, in common for defence and security issues, both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers as institutions. However, I would like to say that this report was made up for the period of the mission in 2005 and this reporting period has actually passed. It is interesting in this report to note that we have given certain practical conditions in relation to the missions in which the armed forces of BiH take part both during last year and which are now under way. So, we have in Ethiopia and Eritrea nine officers who participate in peacekeeping missions and based on the UN Security Council resolution, then in Congo, five officers, who, too, perform that function and we have this third mission that is, so on. Iraqi freedom, where we have 36 members of the BiH Armed Forces working on the operations of destroying the remaining unexploded killings on the ground. We also have a liaison officer in Iraq in command of the coalition forces and we have a liaison officer in... these forces, it's in Florida. As for these basic indicators relating to the mission, I wouldn't repeat it, you saw in the report the first basis for participation in the mission, we have participants in the mission and we have the results of the mission given and we have financial effects. The most interesting financial effects are linked, apparently to this mission of Iraqi Freedom in Iraq. However, you can see from these reports that we are in fact only Sufinancers that much or at least so much of the financial costs have and countries partners it is the U.S. government. 30 In the conclusion of this report, we have also proposed that the normal Council of Ministers, Parliament, the Presidency accept our report, to accept, too, our proposal for the continuation of the 2006 frameworks, and this has been accepted in the current procedure and, as you know, we now have this mission, based on the decision of the BiH Presidency, a report delivered to Parliament. This report, as you know, is in line with the law on participation in peacekeeping missions, and we are obliged to deliver every six months, and the next report is already under way in the process, and I think it will come to you very soon, because the Council of Ministers has passed and is addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency. I don't think I need to waste a lot of time on this report, but if there are any questions that you think I can answer, I'm here. Of course, there's also a representative of the BiH presidency here, so maybe he can.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5796	Thank you very much. Here, we heard Mr Bećirbašić on behalf of his ministry. Mr. Limov, but don't be long, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5797	There's no reason to be long, but I have to say. First, I have no objection to the Joint Commission's report. She's the one who found out the situation. Her report shows that things didn't go exactly the way they were supposed to go in terms of time dynamics. There was an obvious delay. It would be good to hear from representatives from the BiH Presidency, who are the reasons why the delay, which the Commission itself has found, is not so much for what it was, but for once to agree not to do so in the future, and I must say that I do not want to quote it, because I am sure that you have read the report from our joint commission, but I will still ask one question before that. Namely, you have respected the BiH defence chiefs, or Minister Nikola Radovanović is in the final discussions or better to say this last item, asked the BiH Presidency to task the Council of Ministers, to plan and secure budgetary, or budgetary resources, and to make the necessary preparations to create assumptions for the deployment of 4 and 5 contingents of the BiH Armed Forces to destroy unexploded killing funds in the peace operation of Iraq's freedom in Iraq, for six months in 2007. So we are, however, in the first quarter of 2006. The question is who can guarantee now that there will be a need for our engagement and I here, indeed, want to take this opportunity to take advantage of and express my personal position, that I am making a difference about our involvement in police structures, which we have a report and a real difference about our involvement in this operation as Iraqi Freedom. Yet our missions, in which our mission is in symbolic numbers, took part under the auspices of the UN. I would like to say here that this mission in Iraq has a very specific role, and I would like to leave that in the second half of the year, that, on the basis of the apparitions that we will receive, because you have said it yourself every six months, so that somewhere in the seventh month, we should consider this issue and then we should be in charge of the Council of Ministers to prepare the budget in dynamics, possibly predicting the appropriate resources for one such mission. So to say, as far as our commission's report is concerned, she's determined these delays. I see that it is critically addressed, mostly to the Presidency, that it was late, and it is evident that when our 31 missions were first in place, because it was common, when it considered that there was no report on the involvement of police structures, and it was only later on, and the Commission was in a situation to address the Presidency several times, or the Council of Ministers, and to get the possibility that within the deadlines, which are normal answers to the task, which is why the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has formed such a commission as the permanent working body of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I will accept the report, but I would like to get here a public guarantee that there will be no such delays in the future, and I would like this suggestion to be respected, that this last request is being considered somewhere behind the first half of this year, when you will, I presume, again, report to the Parliamentary Assembly on how the past activity is related to the previous contingent and I want to publicly say here that I am pleased that, as far as the participants of our mission are concerned, they will have to seek their rights through the court in terms of compensation, which, at least according to what the public has been presented to them, is being promised and what the state is obliged to do. I personally as an envoy, or an envoy in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, if we are going to be in a situation to deceive people, who will go and represent BiH, I would not support such a practice and I would like the distinguished Dominister here to publicly state whether they have a basis and whether it will be necessary for the court to seek the rights of those people who participated in missions and that, regardless of who led them astray, they think they have the right, and in fact it has proved that they are not... regardless of whether it is ex-entity, because we have referred them as a state and we have when we said that they should go, whether it is the Presidency, whether it is this parliamentary assembly has taken over and certain obligations towards them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5798	Thank you, Mr. Limov. This is good, and please, Đoko, prepare to hear, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5799	First, I thank you for this interest and for specific questions and support, but I want to try to make a comment, if not the answer to these questions, which are being asked. You know, you know that we Law on the participation of members of the armed forces and police forces in peacekeeping missions last year, and that's when we actually started to apply it. Of course, we have sent our report in line with the obligations of the Law at the beginning of the 10th month and, while everyone in it has found themselves to schedule a session, they are considering, there is likely to be a delay established by the Commission and, of course, in the coming period, we will try not to do so, at least when it comes to this organisation and coordination. When it comes to this 2007 planning, I want to say that it is in some way not prejudge, but it is also a legal obligation. We are already starting programming and budgeting for 2007 and if we do not reserve those funds in time, even in the proposal, then we can be late eventually. That's not making a decision. Decision making is known that the Law on Participation provides for and whose role it is in all of this. 32 As far as this third question is concerned, here it is related to these compensations... BiH's defences, it has concluded an individual contract with each participant in the operation. In this, the individual’s obligation, the obligation of the state, or their involvement, is decidently stated. All the compensations, journals and expenses and salaries they have, etc. are specified there. Now he's shown up as a dilemma. Since they are, one part of them came from so-called. The demining units and by the laws of the entities belonged to them... those when they went on a mission are not literally deminers and the interpretation of the financialists and these experts is that they do not belong to this deminer supplement, but that they are in another mission, where the right to every profit is clearly specified. However, this is not the final answer. This will all be re-analyzed and will not be allowed, if there is a legal basis for anyone to be damaged by any question. That's the official position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5800	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5801	Dear fellow delegates, honored guests, I've already asked some questions on this subject last year at a session, so I haven't received an answer until today. We adopted the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces for BiH in peacekeeping missions, etc. We adopted him last year. It was published on 14 March 2005 and entered into force on 22 March 2005, the law we adopted and I supported it, of course. Afterwards, the Bureau's decision was made, before that a contingent was sent, of course there was no law and was referred by the Presidency's decision. The operational part was carried out by the Ministry of Defence, etc., and after the law was passed two or three months later, another contingent was referred to me again. On 1 June, a contingent of the BiH Armed Forces was sent to Iraq, and before that, I asked whether the presidency's decision would come to this House's approval, as Article 6 of this law states that the Presidency's decision must go to Parliament's approval and, if Parliament confirms such a decision, it would be realised, if it does not confirm it, it would be considered rejected, that Article 6 is clearly regulated. But despite the law we had, I only heard from the information funds that this unit was officially sent from Sarajevo Airport to Iraq, and I think it was unfair that we who need to give final confirmation, we only heard from newspapers or on radio television somewhere that something was going on, and we had no idea about it, at least I had no idea. But that's what's finally been removed. Here's what we should've had earlier. The Presidency's decision remains to confirm this parliament, and okay, that's correct. It's fine, it's been removed from the dilemma, but I did have this one remark, and I had to say that it wasn't right that, in addition to the law that we weren't officially informed by the competent authorities that the second one was being directed, or I don't know if the third contingent that it was, I thought I needed to go on December 1st. I don't know if he's being directed, and I don't know that, etc. But now we have a motion for a decision, which came to us for confirmation. Of course, I'm going to say my position, and I'm most certainly in favor of members of the armed forces and police, etc. They go to UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions, and I'm positively supporting them both in Ethiopia, Congo and Sudan and these UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions, but I want this opportunity, once I've asked a question, against sending the BiH Armed Forces to Iraq. It's clear to all of us, and this knows the whole world that it was one illegal, illegal aggression of coalition forces, as 33 say, and I want to say publicly, part of the Member States of the Then Pact to one sovereign member of the UN under that pretext, which we all know is something happening there, producing chemical and biological weapons, etc. That wasn't true. I believe that these coalition forces that have carried out this aggression have enough strength and opportunities to carry out this task, which is why it is directed, which is why some of BiH's armed forces are being sent to Iraq. That they are beside the force they have not exactly these deminers and these forces of means to demine certain areas. I believe that the involvement of the armed forces of other countries is merely a requirement of those who have committed this aggression against Iraq, a requirement for legality that we all give legitimacy and legality to this illegal aggression, especially what we have, and here we now hear officers in command of coalition forces, and that this unit is also under direct command of coalition forces. That's worse. We know, we hear and we all know. The report says that all member states that have their forces in Iraq, consisting of coalition forces, are the potential targets of terrorist actions around the world. It happened, we all know, that terrorist actions were carried out on the territory of those countries that had their strength in Iraq, and that's why these countries that have so far had their powers decided many to withdraw their forces, so that they wouldn't become its institutions, and that we can become both our institutions and citizens and all of us together potential targets of terrorists around the world. And that's why I'm against sending the BiH Armed Forces to Iraq.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5802	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. I'm putting on a vote report. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So unanimous. We have in this point this under b. b) a decision to refer BiH police forces to UN peacekeeping operations in Sudan We have heard these discussions as well. I'll put it on. Can we support that decision, whether we vote or just give support? Please vote on this decision now. Thank you very much. 8 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. So we've taken this decision as well. I'm taking a break until three o'clock. ...on the 12th point of the agenda, which is Ad.12. [[PAUZA]] A report on the work of the Joint Commission on the surveillance of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period April 2004. – December 2005 You received a report from the Commission. The House of Representatives passed the report. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Lomov on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5803	On behalf of the Commission, of course. Very short. Dear colleagues, you've received a report. It does not apply to a year, but to, from an opportunity of 18 to 19 months from the very beginning, because, as you know, this commission is formed under a special law and, since this is the final act of 34 and the need to declare the House of Peoples, I ask you on behalf of the Commission to support the report in the form you have received.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5804	Thank you very much. We heard the commission's report. I'm putting up a report for discussion. Niko one's answering for a word. I'm asking you to vote on the report. Vote now. For 10, no one against, no one abstention. Ad.13. Report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Committee at the House of Peoples Report of the Commission you received. I'm opening the debate. Is there a need for an applicant? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5805	...for the past year. It is essentially a statistical set of sessions, which were held once a month and during that period some personal changes occurred. Mr. Radović is gone, Mr. Pajić has arrived. We had and we still have a problem with the Permanent Secretary of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They've changed three so far. Mr. Čampara, so Mr. Jadranko as Secretary of the House, is now a temporary secretary and for a long time Mr. Milan Zjajić. So that's something that I've run for both secretary and college for a little while, but there's not a solution to determine one permanent person who's going to do the job. We've done other jobs. You have seen from this report that a very serious public debate on higher education has been carried out, that through this Constitutional and Legal Commission, in addition to all that came from authorised applicants, most of the Council of Ministers, has therefore been examined from the aspect of the constitutional foundation and as the relevant committee, as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, together with the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and have come up with unique rules for the making of legal rules, which are largely not followed, here are those who propose the most, that is the Council of Ministers and certain ministries, which make legislative proposals to Parliament. We brought a long time ago, long ago brought to both homes the Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples. I don't know why this Rules of Procedure and I wonder why it hasn't been published and why we're not working on that new Rules of Procedure and who has the right to stop the publication of the adopted act in both homes. So, did someone stop it, did it have no papers in the Official Messenger, did it not do the proper service to the House of Peoples, but we brought the Rules of Procedure, which we worked over a year both homes had not yet been published. It is a shame that someone can be stronger than Parliament in Parliament that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples do not apply. I know he's gonna be changing, but please, we'll be working on this rules of procedure by the end of this year. We've got a new rules of procedure, we're working on our old rules of procedure, we're making a mess and a shame. So, I would ask my colleagues to accept this as my one serious dissatisfaction as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as a person who has done a lot of hard work and energy invested in this Rules of Procedure, which we have not yet objectively published. We haven't been able to publish it. I would ask my colleagues to take a critical look at all the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, if 35 have reasons for that, so that I wouldn't be the only one so critical of certain things that happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5806	Here, the secretary says there are some differences.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5807	As for our Rules of Procedure, he can go straight to the announcement. But there's been a bit of a brake in the House of Representatives, so we can't work on one Rules of Procedure, the other by the other, there are two different procedures. If they publish their own Rules of Procedure and we do not comply with those Rules of Procedure. I'm going to talk to my colleague to see where they left off, if they've agreed, I know there's been some problems, especially what they have to do now, automatically new ones, because they have to introduce a new commission to check the members of the Council of Ministers and all that, so I'm going to see where they're standing, what attitude they've taken.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5808	Jadranko, I think we've agreed to our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure go as an act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5809	I thank the secretary for officially giving us this information at the House, but I'm not happy with that answer. We must act as an independent and equal home to another home, according to the Constitution. If we've brought the Rules of Procedure, done the full work, and especially since it's not us, but someone else was supposed to agree there, then I'm asking it to be published. This will move them to bring their own rules of procedure as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-27-0.u5810	I thank Mr Filipović. I thank Mr. Jadranko, we've cleared up some things, and we could say that our Rules of Procedure should go public. We also heard a report by the commission, Mr Filipović, on behalf of the Commission. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? Since there are no debaters, we are now voting on a report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please vote now. Thank you. We unanimously adopted this report. Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this general agreement, and I am opening a debate here at our home. 36 Is anyone coming forward? No Niko's answering for a word. I put on vote consent for ratification of the General Agreement on economic, investment and so on. Co-operation with the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Please vote now. Thank you very much. It's unanimous. I ask you to remove this item on the 15th agenda, given that it is a confidential document, and that the rapporteur was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who for legitimate reasons could not be present at this session and this item of the agenda will be put at the next session and completed at the next session. So, not to consider that this session has been interrupted in this place, but we're taking this item off the agenda and we're going to put it in the session, in the next session. Thank you. Thank you for your cooperation. I welcome you. I wish you good luck and have a good rest. The seat is closed at 3:30.
