ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23284	Gentlemen, honored guests I am opening the 78th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen of the representatives, honored guests, For today's 78th session of the House of Representatives, our regular guests, the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the OSCE, the European Union, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the European Union's monitoring mission to BiH, representatives of the delegations of the countries to BiH, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of our home, the UN mission to BiH, as well as representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. Given the point we have on the agenda today. At this session we also invited special guests: High Representative for BiH Mr. Kristijan Švarc Šiling, head of the European Commission in BiH Mr. majka Henfris, ambassadors of the member states of the Peace Implementation Council, the United States, Austria, Great Britain, France, the Russian Federation, Germany, Canada, Italy, Japan, Turkey, the Netherlands, all of you sincerely welcome on behalf of the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives as a whole. I thank you for your response. I have here records that the sessions are present and many ambassadors, who have also expressed interest in following this session. All together on behalf of the countries, which I have not welcomed, I also welcome and thank you once again for the interest in this session and for coming to this session. We also invited the presidents of the parties, the signatories of the Constitutional Change Agreement, those who are there, too, welcome and welcome to the College and the House of Representatives, and I would like to welcome once again the representatives of the public information funds. Today we also have a direct transmission of this session on the first Bosnian Herzegovic TV programme. I would like to thank all the other representatives of public information funds and to express my hope that today's session, before the eyes of the Bosnian Herzegovina and the international public, will pass in a democratic atmosphere of arguments and a correct decision on this very important issue for this country. 2 According to the Service report, I find that the session is present at 39, and I am now informed by 41 MPs. Everyone is present except Mr. Mirko Blagojević. I ask the MPs to keep their records, so we have a standing record of those present in this hall. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda. This session was called by the invitation to Article 47(3). The rules of procedure of this house, in haste. In the invitation to the session, only one item of the agenda was proposed, which is, the amendment to the BiH Constitution in the first reading, the BiH Presidency's proposal. Is there a need to discuss this agenda point? The first was Mrs Vlatka Komšić, and then Mr Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go, Mrs. Komšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23285	Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, before setting out the agenda, I suggest you define the agenda as follows. Point 1. Consideration and adoption of the Agreement amending the BiH Constitution, the leaders of political parties, with annexes, and, as the second proposal for an amendment to the BiH Constitution, the first reading, therefore, of the BiH presidency. I'll just point out that the second point comes from another point and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted this order at the House of Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23286	I thank Mrs. Komšić. Please submit proposals for changing the agenda and any possible additions to the conclusions in writing to the College of the House so that they can record and plead precisely. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers, fellow MPs, MPs, honored guests, I am on the Extended College, not for an hour ago, intervened in the sense that this item of the agenda, which is the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH, first reading, is removed from the agenda, i.e. delay the debate on amendments to the Constitution of BiH, until November of the month, i.e. to some clearing of relations in these premises, which raise certain fog on constitutional solutions, which have been offered. According to us, we don't think the situation in this context has matured to bring this constitution without it. First of all, I am referring to the BiH suit, according to the SCG and the way it is fast and at any cost now or immediately passing this, in my opinion, a slightly strange constitution, or amendment to an illegal constitution, because this constitution is essentially Annex IV of the Agreement reached in Dayton. I urge that we proceed with the public debate, involve the teams of experts and the general public and circle the so-called. both phases, which are indicated under the rounding of the adoption of the BiH Constitution. I especially stress that it is clear that this point is in the Rules of Procedure of the so-called Rules of Procedure. the mandatory point and I respect the Rules of Procedure, but I will and I want this Parliament to declare, on my proposal, even if it was also said in that context, that this is a mandatory point and that it should be on the agenda. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23288	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23289	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Bureau, the Council of Ministers, the honored guests, we are the extended college, at 9:00 we had an appointment, preparation for this session. From Mr. Moranjkić, we also received this proposal and we have spoken of it. It would be good for the College of the House of Representatives to meet members of the House of Representatives what we have decided, concerning Mr. Moranjkić's proposal, of course, he is procedurally and businessly entitled to this. Secondly, this proposal by Mrs. Vlatka Komšić, I would like to stress here, we should insist on what we agreed on at the House of Representatives, the Exterior College, with the club heads and to insist on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, because in this case we have, let's say, a properly represented proposal from Mrs. Komšić, but I don't think there's any reason now to involve ourselves in the parliamentary procedure and the leaders who played one of their roles, but to start from the Presidency as the BiH Council of Ministers, who have been involved in constitutional changes and our working bodies such as the Constitutional Commission, and we now what we are deciding on the agenda, how to move forward. I think it would be correct to suggest what the College in the narrow composition and the College in the broader composition has suggested and thus to declare ourselves as the first proposal, which is why we can also make these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23290	Thank you very much. As for the College, the visa interpretation of the College that this is a mandatory item of the agenda and we are standing at that position still, but you also know that it is also a practice to open a debate on what is a mandatory point and what is the agenda. At this point, I can say that the College is on the fact that all the procedural conditions are met to discuss and decide today on this item of the agenda. I'm talking about procedural conditions. On the political aspects of this agreement, you can talk through the debate, which will first be about principles and later, possibly amendments. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23291	I welcome all present. So, I will, indeed, stick to Mr. Chairman of the procedural aspect. So, when it comes to Mrs Vlatka Komšić's proposal, we think this is about a document that is not parliamentary in nature, that is, giving that document that cannot be nor should, in our opinion, be the subject of debate in this House today, adding the following. We, in a way, have this agreement on the agenda, of course, to translate into amendments through the Presidency as a proposing. As for Mr. Moranjkić's proposal, therefore, we are against including this point in the agenda, and as for Mr. Moranjkić's proposal, we are prepared to support this proposal. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23292	Have there been any further reports for the hearing? Mr. Sead Avdić. Since it's gone, reports have been completed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23293	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I also want to express my controversies, conditionally speaking, those I would say are reflections and reflections and reflections of the Bosnian Herzegovic public. Namely, Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, as the country's highest legal act, has never received democratic legitimacy in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. It's never been certified in the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. Which means we are making amendments to one document, which this Parliament has never adopted, and it is a contradiction, a formal legal nature, and it would be good to, indeed, at the beginning of today's session to remove these, simply, these reflections and constitutional and legal experts and everything else. So we have amendments to a document that this parliament has never adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23294	Thank you very much. Dr Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23295	Thank you very much President, Let me welcome you all, namely, it is difficult to accept this thesis, it is true that this Parliament has never adopted Annex IV, but Annex IV was adopted by representatives of all the peoples in Dayton, or Paris. Therefore, these representatives had both the legality and legitimacy to accept the constitution. That's true, the fact that we've been applying this constitution for ten years. So we gave him both legality and legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23296	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23297	Ladies and gentlemen, since the question of the Dayton Agreement of Annex IV of the Paris Framework Peace Agreement has been raised in public, it has been made public that it has not been confirmed by the House of Representatives. I would remind the honourable MPs that after the signing of the Framework Peace Agreement, a public debate was held and confirmed by the then authorities of BiH, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation and Republika Srpska. Therefore, this Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement of the Occupied Peace Agreement, as the Constitution of BiH, has full legitimacy and legality and, in my view, there is no dilemma. And this House of Representatives couldn't even confirm it, because it was also established in the BiH Constitution. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23298	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. Are there any more reported? Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23299	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I have come to the floor after these two discussions of my colleagues, who are trying to convince me that we in the truth have in the democratic procedure adopted the Constitution, i.e. confirmed and that it has legitimacy. It would be normal for him to be published, so I would ask them to tell me when and where he was posted? That's one thing. The second thing, who signed it and, third or most important, if that is so, then where are those who signed it, namely their representatives, why they do not participate in the amendments and additions to that agreement, which we today call Annex IV, or the Dayton Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23300	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23301	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I apologize for not going out for the pay phone. I'll take a look at these suggestions we've had so far. So this is a mandatory agenda point and it's not possible to take it off the agenda. Political agreements were signed by representatives of political parties and the agreement must and should be respected through amendments to the Constitution, through laws and through business procedures. I don't mind, nor does the SDA have any objection to the verification of the agreement here, but here in the College we are thinking this way, that perhaps after the amendments to the BiH Constitution have been adopted, we believe that we have also adopted a political agreement. He, in my opinion, is not at all controversial and let's try it that way to think. As for the legality of the Dayton Peace Agreement, I remind you it's November 29th and 30th, '95. in the year, the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after Dayton, and before Paris, supported the Dayton Peace Agreement, including Annex IV, and after that was signed in Paris by the delegation, authorised by the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am speaking on the basis of the minutes, from the 13th session of the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 29 and 30 November 1995. Therefore, today we have everything and formal and essential, and if you want in this home prepared procedural assumptions, to decide on a proposal for a document, which we have here today, called the Amendments to the Constitution of BiH. So much and thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23302	Thank you very much. We have a deal with an extended college and I'm going to warn the MPs of rational use of time, right on the line I won't deny, but time will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23303	I apologize for this brief intervention. She adopted him to, like, not the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now we have Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have a new document. So we have a peace agreement, which is a temporary document, which has its civilian and military part of 6 agreements, from the point of view of implementation. It is a temporary document of this state, it is not permanent and it needs to be implemented and verified in this parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means, there is an absolutely questionable debate and, simply, a response to counterpart Džafrović. So, I'm really looking out for the constitutional law experts to tell us what it's all about. One is the adoption of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other is Bosnia and Herzegovina, following the signing of the Dayton Agreement. It is a new subject, created as a result of the Framework Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23304	If I may the chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23306	Very short. You've asked a great question, Mr. Avdić. Therefore, the agreement was adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the Assembly of the State, at the moment the agreement came and authorized the signatories to sign it. That agreement resulted in aneks IV, and this annex also produced this congregation in which we are sitting today, and it is not necessary for this congregation to confirm something that the congregation, the legal congregation, had previously confirmed. That would be the same for you, Mr. Avdić, as when we today, if Bog were to adopt these amendments, that you would ask that, after the October elections, a new assembly confirms these amendments again. The new congregation, of course, will have no need to confirm these amendments, because this is a legal and legitimate assembly, which today decides on the Constitution. The Constitution is decided in time and space, at the time of 1995, on 29 and 30 November 1995, the Assembly of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina decided on a General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and Annex IV to the Constitution of BiH and authorised the delegation to sign it. So I think once again, that we have all the procedural and essential conditions to discuss and decide these issues today. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23307	... the duties I am entrusted with, respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Gentlemen, then we are all by this oath, which is once again confirmed by this constitution, which has continuity and the General Framework Agreement and therefore cannot accept the discussions that appear today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23308	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23309	Well, here, I didn't know I was going to replicate to my colleague Milićević, but I do. Respecting doesn't mean adopting. Because I respect all the children of this world, but I won't adopt them. But I wanted to ask Mrs. Branka Todorović, the secretary of this house, which mostly, therefore, is business so that I would not read 7 so that she would now explain to us, which most of them is the adoption of agreements between political parties in this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23310	I think you should. The question was addressed directly to the Secretary of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23311	Dear MPs, honored guests, the question is clear that it is on the agenda. On the agenda today, we do not have an agreement, it is a political document, which was signed and adopted by representatives of political parties, and if we had it on the agenda, it would be questionable to vote on it. I personally think that we should vote on the ordinary majority, because these are still not amendments to the BiH Constitution. They were only the basis for making amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The political agreement as a document is presented in constitutional amendments, and we have this on the agenda today. Today's amendments, which are on the agenda, as well as amendments to amendments to the amendments, will be adopted by a two-thirds majority, those present and voting, according to the procedure envisaged for other legislative projects as well. So we're voting on principles, amendments to amendments, then a package of amendments 1 to 4, two-thirds majority of those present and voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23312	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for speaking for the second time about this item of the agenda, but I think we have made it clear that this is a binding point, a mandatory item of the agenda for the Rules of Procedure and that it is not disputed. I understand and asked the question of Mr. Moranjkić, Vink Zorić and all those who ask the question, i.e. as a previous question about the Constitution and what we have been doing all these years and now it is being raised as a problem, an open question, as we cannot go any further. There are many reasons why political parties, in due time, signed to respect the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, in order to go to elections, and this is still true today. Entities parliaments, cantonal, county etc. They're all incorporated, practically in one legal system that the Constitution is the backbone of all of what we have today. All this to question now, I would understand it from my colleagues if we had put it right at the beginning, after the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, and in the meantime we, as Mrs Milićević said, swore and we are representatives of the people. Political parties are no longer ruled by kings and emperors but by political parties. That's how it is in the modern states of democracy. And now to question it all, and basically all the time we've been doing and strengthening that constitution and we've come to some other phases, that it needs to be improved and I mean, it wouldn't be right to question it. Of course, the argument I respect, but believe me, I have no reason now to go back to some previous question ten, eleven years ago, after all of us here shared that fate and took part in it ourselves and others took part in it and we came into a situation to deny everything, then deny ourselves practically. We deny Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. Then we questioned everything, if that's how we're going to interpret it. I don't want to hurt anyone, that it's an 8-sided interpretation. We can put it in principle, but in complex relationships, in that we're building a legal system and a legal system that we don't have yet, because that's life, we can't deny everything, then we get nothing. Please keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23314	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. You'll get a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23315	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Presidency, members of the Presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, I was actually thinking about what would happen, what kind of debate would we be having today's ten-point agenda. I have a feeling that many want to start a debate on what is the essence of that point from what is the binding point of the agenda. As a matter of fact, we'll have time to adopt the agenda. Many of their arguments for or against will have a chance to say then, but the public does, the citizens do, to show that we are Parliament who is ready to work effectively, to adopt the agenda, and that in the context of this agenda, when it is adopted, we are having fundamental debates. I wish we'd slept over since '91. By '95, but I feel like a lot of people have slept through this period since '95. until 2006 I beg you, therefore, this is a binding point in the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleague Vlatka Komšić, she asked a question that needs to be said for the agenda, asking for an addition to the agenda, it is legitimate, it is business to adopt a political agreement. I think there is a compromise there, and by voting on amendments, by accepting amendments, we can essentially conclude that we have adopted a political agreement by the leaders of political parties. If the amendment, which by no means gets most, is not adopted either, and I would pray, therefore, and that the stenogram is recorded, if necessary, and I think we should also go into a fundamental debate, to adopt the agenda and all these arguments that we listen to legality and illegality and agreement and the Constitution will hear in the context of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23316	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Moranjkić. I don't have any more reports. There's Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23317	Since my name is mentioned in a context that is not, in my opinion, related to what has been said and what I have suggested in this House, so I ask my colleague Gligorić, whom I highly appreciate, to review the contexts of his speech and my presentation and my proposal at the beginning of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23318	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23319	Gentlemen of the Presidency, President of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, esteemed media representatives, What has been asked here today as a question, better said as a problem, it is interesting that it has been set up after ten years and I believe I have not read such a scientific debate so far. So far, there has been no debate as to whether the BiH Constitution is legal and legitimate, whether this constitution is valid or not, whether the Constitutional Court can adopt its views or cannot, etc. And here I agree with Mr Špirić that it is obvious that some want to discuss the essence of, let's say, not adopting but establishing the agenda, given that it is a mandatory point of the agenda. Mrs Komšić's proposal, which is, of course, a legitimate proposal, as regards the SDS Club, is acceptable, if, of course, the other signatories of the political agreement agree, to put it on the agenda. So it is not disputed for us and to vote on the agreement being on the agenda, and to vote on the agreement, of course, it is certainly a consensus of those who have signed this political agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23320	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23321	I want to replicate my colleague Novaković, when he has already called for our experience in our daily practice, the Constitutional Court, and even in this House, how we have acted under this constitution. The truth is, it is also true that we have a number of other laws in this country, which have been passed by a higher power, or imposed, and also then we have an explanation to change these laws, that it is necessary that we adopt them first, otherwise there is no change. Following such logic, the same fate is this constitution, as far as I can see, and as far as the agreement is concerned, I appreciate that it should be adopted here, because those who have signed it need to wash their hands from it, and that we, as advocates, take responsibility for what is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23322	Thank you very much. No more reports. Please yes, this is the last time I give after I've concluded the debate. Get back to me on time. Dr Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23323	I think things are very clear here. In fact, the political agreement has been translated into constitutional amendments. There's no need to discuss a political agreement. It's a matter of political parties. This is Parliament to discuss the proposal, which is formally proposed legally to this Parliament, which is a proposal for constitutional change. We're not going to discuss the political document now, we're going back. I think that would be absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23324	Thank you very much. I've concluded the debate on the agenda. Now as president of the House, I'm saying what we agreed on at the Expansive College. The proposal for an amendment to the BiH Constitution in its first reading by the BiH presidency's authorised proposal, a mandatory agenda item and 10 of this is on the agenda and there is no specific statement on this. That stays on the agenda. As far as Mrs Vlatka Komšić's proposal is concerned, it is clear that the political agreement has been translated into these amendments and that we have put this political agreement on the agenda, in accordance with our procedure and procedurally about the basis for the agreement to be put in place other than those amendments, indeed, there is no. If there are no political reasons, which I do not want to go into, and that is for you as agents to set yourself up. So, as far as the College is concerned, as regards the conduct of the session, as far as the preparation is concerned, everything is respected and agreed and all the regulatory conditions for the debate on the amendment proposal, which, of course, implies the political elements of the agreement are on the table and you have the opportunity to discuss it all and I think we need this debate to end in a way that this remains a mandatory item of the agenda, and that through the debate on principles and everything, questions are eventually opened, which are opened through the agenda. It's my position as House Chairman, and I'm putting this proposal on the record. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. A suggestion that this remains the only item on the agenda. I have elaborated through this explanation the demands of Mr. Moranjkić and Mrs. Komšić. Mrs. Komšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23325	Chairman, I ask you to put this proposal on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23326	Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23327	I'm also asking you to plead, no matter what I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23328	Okay. I'm closing the debate. The first was Mr. Moranjkić's proposal. I'll put the proposals in order, as they arrived at the plea. Sir. I've concluded the debate with Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23329	You cannot put on the agenda to vote on a proposal to remove a mandatory item from the agenda. So you can't put that on a business vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23330	His proposal is much wider than taking down the agenda and they're always on the agenda, and I'm going to put it on this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23331	You can't put that on, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23332	I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure. It is the right of MPs, and we cannot conduct a negative selection here according to the proposal by Mrs Komšić and Mr Moranjkić, which is why I have offered a correct exit and elaborated the situation to remain the only item of the agenda and that through this point of the daily 11 debate and the elements of Mrs Komšić and Mr Moranjkić's demands, and I do not think that it is only procedurally clean and correct, and I can ask that the political agreement be subsequently included, and to ignore Mr Moranjkić's request, I cannot do so as House Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23333	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think we can find a way out of this and move on to dealing with the essence itself. So this, indeed, is a mandatory item of the agenda and it is not possible to make a decision to remove it from the agenda, so it is according to the Rules of Procedure, and I would ask Mrs Komšić. Is it agreeable to get out of this situation, with this proposal, which Mr Špirić, on behalf of, practically, the College has presented and who again and chaired the House to vote on the amendments we are, in fact, voting on a political agreement and that, if we need to reach a proper conclusion in this direction. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind it being a special item of the agenda and we'll back it up. However, I think that nothing will be lost in essence, if we go like this and in that context we could vote on the proposal of the chairman that he gave. I'd like to ask, if you can accept this as a matter of fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23334	I'd like to ask if she can take five minutes off just for consultation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23335	I'm setting a five-minute break. Mrs. Komšić asked for a break. [[PAUZA]] Does he want to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23336	... the item of the agenda has been proposed, for reasons that we believe that the constitutional agreement itself on amending constitutional amendments does not contain only amendments, but that the width of this agreement will also result in certain legal and business solutions. It is clearly stated in point 6 of this Agreement that the parties agree that this agreement with annexes should be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that as a compromise, we could accept Mr Špirić's solution, where clearly in the adoption of the amendment, it will be said that the agreement with annexes itself has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23337	Thank you very much. I think we've completed the procedural agenda of the debate. In the course of the break, I consulted Mr. Moranjkić on his business he can't ask for this item to be taken down on the agenda, he accepted it, the debate he opened could continue. 12 During the debate on the principles of the amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and with this proposal, which Mrs Komšić defacto accepted the explanation of the College, that through the amendment and their, possibly, adoption of the political agreement. I think we've exhausted the agenda debate. I'm asking for your understanding. If anyone else insists, but the debate was both content and sufficient, it was possible for everyone to say what they were thinking. Mr. Zorić, do you want some more?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23338	I didn't listen well to what Mr. Špirić was saying, not that we here accept some of his suggestions, which we haven't said here at all. I don't know how the right of one of the MPs to say I accept Špirić's proposal and we can continue with the agenda. What did Špirić suggest, actually? I really don't know what Špirić suggested and now he solves it and puts two points together into one. I just see one item on the agenda, which I got in the call for a session, I don't see anything else. I don't want anything to be understood. Let's stay clear of what Spkritæ's proposal is and whether we adopted it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23339	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mrs Komšić gave up the proposal to include the agreement as a special item of the agenda, and I found that Mr Zorić had said that the procedural conditions had been met to move on to the debate and decision on the agenda. She gave an interpretation of how she saw her intervention on the agenda, on the trail of discussion, which was here, but it had nothing to do with the agenda. The agenda remains the same and I agree here in front of all of you that today we are only meeting with one item of the agenda, that is the Amendment to the BiH Constitution in the first reading, proposed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to this agenda, to its realization. Before I open the debate, I owe you a few notes. I think it's good for both our representatives and the Bosnian Herzegovina public. As you are late, following negotiations under a number of political parties in BiH, the BiH presidency on 25 March. the parliamentary procedure was submitted by the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH. The College of the House of Representatives, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has designated the Constitutional and Legal Commission as relevant for the review of the amendments. The College takožer obliged the Constitutional and Legal Commission to organise and conduct a public debate, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure. The debate was organised and lasted 15 days. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, the amendment was also sent to the Council of Ministers to give an opinion. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 31.03, which established that there was a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the amendments. On 17 April, the Council of Ministers delivered an opinion on the proposal for an amendment and following the public debate and discussion, the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report containing notices on the implementation of the common procedure on amendments, also containing six amendments to the amendments proposed by the BiH Presidency, adopted by the Commission by a majority of votes. 13 You have all these acts, which I have now mentioned here in due time. I think I still need to tell you that, after the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report, which was delivered to you, amendments were submitted as follows, I will remind you. Representative Vlatka Komšić submitted five amendments to Amendment II to the BiH Constitution, four amendments to Amendment III to the BiH Constitution and five amendments to Amendment IV to the BiH Constitution. Martin Raguž has submitted four amendments with alternatives. Petar Kunić and Tihomir Gligorić submitted one amendment and Mr. Beriz Belkić also submitted an amendment on behalf of the Party for BiH. So, all of us, I hope, have put up with it on behalf of the Clubs and the political options that we represent. Representative Dr. Sead Avdić delivered three amendments yesterday April 24th, but these amendments were unfairly submitted, so we cannot declare them today. I draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the basic legislative procedure of Article 111 when considering the amendments. Rules of Procedure, and please take care of that. I also remind you of the provision of Article 113. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that constitutional amendments will be adopted if they are voted by two-thirds of the representatives present and voting. We are now in the first reading and I am opening a debate on the Amendment Proposal to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Does anyone want to go on behalf of the promoter? There will be no proposals from Mr Sulejman Tihić, chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Here you go, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23340	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, distinguished Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen, ten months after ten months of talks today, we are at the end of the first phase of constitutional change. Constitutional reforms are a natural, logical sequence of reforms we have already implemented or implemented, starting with reforms of the administrative, educational, customs, tax, judicial, security, to the defence and police system. The amendments to the Constitution, which we are considering today, complete one whole so far and create assumptions for the continuation of the reform process with a view to establishing a more efficient and cheaper system on our country's path towards membership of the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments proposed today are the result of parliamentary political parties' talks. At first, there were eight political parties: the SDA, the Party for BiH, the SDS, HDZ, the Social Democratic Party, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, the PDP and the HNZ, which signed a declaration in Washington on 21 November on commitment to constitutional change, and talks ended on 18 March. By signing a political agreement by six political parties: SDA, SDP, SDS, HDZ, SNSD and PDP. On the basis of this agreement, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, held on 25 March 2006, established a proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and delivered it to the Parliamentary Assembly. 14 I would like to give an explanation on both the principles and the content of the constitutional amendments on the basis of this proposal, on behalf of the proposing presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The basic principles are set out in the Washington Declaration of Determination for Constitutional Reform. On this occasion, we have pledged to follow the reform policy, which is necessary for BiH to become a member of NATO and the European Union as soon as possible. This requires, in addition to implementing reforms, which are under way, the police, the economy, the improvement of the BiH Constitution, in order to establish more economic and efficient authorities. The commitment to start the reform process has been confirmed, which will strengthen the competences of state institutions, the more efficient work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the institutions of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers. It is clear that these are only the first steps, which should be implemented by March 2006. To reach an agreement on amendments to the BiH Constitution, concerns the authority of the state, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and Human Rights and Freedoms. The parties agreed that this was only the first phase and that after the general election o.g. follow phase two. It is agreed that the agreement will be implemented in the form of an amendment to the Constitution and part under the relevant laws and sublaws. I believe that, with the necessary compromises, we have managed to ensure that the agreed principles, objectives, are respected, primarily by strengthening the powers of the state, more effectively and functionally. Ladies and gentlemen, I now wish to make a brief summary of the very content of the amendments to the Constitution. Amendment and jurisdiction of the State. In addition to the original, a category of shared competences and competences related to meeting the conditions for European integration have been established. In addition, the status of delegated competences has been defined. In addition to the previous responsibilities, defences, security, the Court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH have been introduced, as well as the envisaged possibility that other issues could be entered in the original jurisdiction, in accordance with the law. The shared responsibilities with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are: the tax system, the electoral process, the judiciary, agriculture, science and technology, the environment and local self-government. It is also foreseen that other issues may be included in the shared competences, in accordance with the law. When it comes to delegated powers, it is clear that they can return to entities, only with the unanimous consent of the state and both entities. It is also stressed that state institutions are competent to negotiate, develop, adopt, and implement and operate the laws necessary to meet European standards, as well as political, economic conditions related to European integration. The entity's parallel relations with neighbouring countries must not only be in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and territorial integrity, but also with European standards. Amendment II of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Legislative Authority for BiH is entrusted to the Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution. The House of Representatives will have 87 MPs, of which at least three members of national minorities and others. This increase came due to the expansion of the BiH state's competence, strengthening the mandate of the House of Representatives, as you now know by the new constitutional amendments, increased legislative activity. The House of Representatives also elects the House of Peoples, elects the BiH Presidency, etc. 15 The competencies of the House of Peoples are related exclusively to matters of vital national interest, if it is the same broken by law, and not so far to all issues of the jurisdiction of the House of Representatives. If within 15 days, one of the nadroda clubs, the super-half or two-thirds majority, does not indicate an infringement of the vital national interest, the law shall enter into force. The ethnic ad-hoc clubs in the House of Representatives are elected by seven delegates to the House of Peoples from every constituent nation. The mandate of the presidents of the MPs and the House of Peoples takes four years, they have vice presidents, who are from different peoples. Amendment III The BiH presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a presidency consisting of the president and two vice presidents. The president and vice-presidents of the presidency are the president and vice-presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina and cannot be of the same people. The position and competence of the Bureau and the Council of Ministers have been changed. Instead of the Presidency, the Chief of Executive is the Council of Ministers, to which most of the foreign policy responsibilities, the proposal of the Budget, etc. has been transferred. The responsibilities of the Presidency except in the domain of defence are reduced to the role of state representation and protocol activities. The president has individual powers, covering eleven of 14 key responsibilities. The presidency, as a collective decision body, makes only a matter of defence, then elects the Constitutional Court judge and elects the Central Bank's board of directors. An indirect election of the presidency in the Parliamentary Assembly has been foreseen. The term of office of the president by rotation or by other means by the Parliamentary Assembly, according to a political agreement, would take 16 months. Amendment IV to the Council of Ministers is the central institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina's executive government. It is his duty to defend the Constitution and exercise the authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This will be in the right sense of the government, as do the other European countries. Instead of the chairman, we will have a president, or prime minister with strong powers, which will give him more rights, but more responsibility, both for the work of the Council of Ministers and each ministry in particular. Two new ministries have been introduced. Ministry of Agriculture, Science, Technology, Ecology. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these amendments have made important moves to strengthen the authority of the state, efficiency and functionality of BiH institutions. This will certainly speed up our country's path towards Euro-Atlantic integration, and allow the BiH state to take responsibility for negotiating, adopting, implementing the necessary European standards. These changes did not cover all the issues, because there was no necessary consensus. I remind you, this is only phase one. I believe that in the next phase, after the upcoming elections, it will be possible to discuss and reach a consensus on other issues, which are not covered at this stage. I am convinced that these solutions are good for both Srbin and Hrvat and Bosniaks and all BiH citizens. They're good for our country. These amendments have not been treated, i.e. The constitutional position of the constituent peoples has not been changed. If we have a more efficient and functional state, which can solve citizens' problems and issues and be a partner to the international community, the European Union and NATO, then it's good for all our peoples, then it's good for all BiH citizens. The proposed amendments have been led by a broad public debate, different opinions have been delivered, which is quite normal, starting with those who support, to those who oppose these amendments. 16 In any case, the convincing majority supports these amendments as an important step forward and the first phase of constitutional reform. Certainly, always making sure that the majority, except for most citizens, must include most political representatives from all three constituent nations. In BiH, such and other issues can be resolved only with the necessary consensus, which requires compromises and these amendments are the result of a compromise and no one has received what he asked for, especially no one has received what he wanted. In addition, they are an important test for BiH institutions, but also for Bosnian-Herzegovic politicians. By following the agreement and adopting them, we will show the ability to take full responsibility from the international community and its institutions for the leadership of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, for all those who have a dilemma or are against it, please reconsider. The alternative to these changes is to retain the existing state, i.e. The Dayton Constitution with all its mistakes and shortcomings. All who commit and vote against should be aware that this can affect not only the reforms and the European path of BiH, but also the country's sustainability in general. The least that could happen is the radicalisation and destabilising of opportunities in BiH, which you must admit to no one is responding. It would mean a huge step back in every respect and a waste of time for citizens, a waste of time for our country. Many in the international community would wonder if they could agree on anything in BiH, and some might suspect the integrity and perspective of our country. And we know exactly who that would suit and who would benefit from it. So I'm asking you one more time to think this through. These amendments have also been declared by a number of international institutions and states, starting from the European Union of the United States, Austria, Turkey, to the OSCE, the Venice Commission, etc. and everyone thinks this is good for BiH and that these amendments should be supported. The BiH institutions, such as the Council of Ministers, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, proposed, supported this amendment, thereby calling on you, on behalf of the BiH Presidency and all signatories of the agreement, to adopt these amendments after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23341	I thank Mr. Tihić, the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I will now give the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives to Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, and Mr. Sead Avdić first signed up for discussion and I ask you to register in due time. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23342	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow Members and esteemed guests, you have given the chairman the basic information on the procedure carried out to this day, regarding the proposal for these amendments. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as any other committee responsible, has given its written report, as proposed by these amendments, and you are esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I hope you get this together and read it. I have no intention of, of course, repeating on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission what you've already had a chance to read. There's only one part of this report I want to draw attention to, in a way. It says in the report that a public debate on the Amendment proposal was held on 12 this month. In fact, the public debate on the proposal for an amendment to the BiH Constitution and the BiH presidency's proposal lasted all the time until the Constitutional and Legal Commission session, actually until that moment until the Constitutional and Legal Commission decided on the principles of the proposed amendments. I point out this 17 because, precisely at the call of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, many citizens individually or organised, institutions etc. through various forms of communication, by fax, mail, e-mail or, on the day of the organised public debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly building, they delivered their opinions, proposals, reviews, views, etc. So the public debate wasn't over on the 12th of this month, but it actually lasted until the 19th of this month. As for the proposals from the public hearing, it was obvious that those to whom this was delivered were primarily members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and everything that came to the address of the Parliamentary Assembly, in addition to what arrived at their personal address, was presented and delivered to the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, of course, it is seen from the report. Dear colleagues, I wanted to point out only this detail in the report. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has, in fact, worked hard and sought the House of Representatives, of course, and colleagues from another Constitutional and Legal Commission, from another home to give citizens the opportunity to say what they want. It is up to us, of course, to take all this into account, as the Commission and its members had in mind, to make the right decision. So much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23343	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mr. Elmir Jahić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency, this is one of the historic sessions of the House of Representatives and each MP carries with him a high burden and responsibility for the future of this country, and in that sense every word and every thought should and should be based on the formal and legal logic of the Constitution of BiH, etc. The club, the Mixed Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, supports constitutional changes and considers them necessary and necessary. In what extent they are made and what extent they have, in terms of change, I would say the frightening logic of the Bosnian Herzegovina policy and the simple situation in the Constitution of BiH, which produced by us a high degree of tension and instability of the state, cannot be given conditionally a passing assessment. With all due respect, these are not rooted nor fundamental changes to the BiH Constitution. The international community also agrees, most of the BiH public agrees. The club also believes that we need constitutional changes, I repeat once again, and that, simply what has been done, of six or seven leaders of political parties, should be respected and respected on the political stage of BiH, but, objectively, the methodology itself, the procedure, the method of reaching constitutional solutions cannot be accepted as one logical, normal, formal-legal procedure of amending the Constitution of a country or one state and in this context, away from the public's eyes in the truth in the Central Bank, six, seven or eight political leaders agreed, simply on changing the BiH Constitution. So this wasn't a public, transparent process. This is a process, which has simply allowed only 15 days of public debate, and in this sense certainly warns the public and BiH whether a consultation with the electoral electoral body can be held within 15 days and simply obtains the political will of most citizens and peoples in BiH. That remains an open question. 15 days is more than 18 for such constitutional changes in BiH, objectively, which means my personal personal reaction is, in a few of these details, first of all to clarify. The Constitutional and Legal Commission on Thursday afternoon with quite a number of controversy, so I would say a depravity with an aspect of hours, hours of delaying the simple adoption of amendments, and that technical change in the amendments, which had already been presented before, and these technical changes were essentially objectively fundamental changes in the last phase of five minutes to twelve before the adoption of constitutional changes in BiH. Do not convince us that these were not fundamental changes. It wasn't technical changes. It wasn't a formal change. It was done 6-7 days ago, simple adoptions at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, could it really, in such a time-share, allow people to know what it is. He can't, gentlemen, and let's not be fooled, which means that what happened on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, absolutely blasphemy, her legitimacy, and Friday morning they sent a notice on who, simple amendments, invested that the amendments were rejected. Now I ask you, how is it really possible on Friday, where I was really justifiably absent that morning, without getting a message from the Constitutional and Legal Commission to renew the amendments and defend in the plenary phase. There's really a question. I asked this question to the extended college and simply, the extended college had no political will or hearing, simply to approve only one amendment to go to the plenary stage. That's the degree of democracy in this House. So I repeat again, on Friday morning we received a simple report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is on Tuesday. Now I'm really wondering if it's possible to react to everything that's been done to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So, I have a lot of reasons to ask that, under Article 94(3)(a), my amendment simply enables his consideration in the plenary phase at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a lot of arguments about it, so there's a little political will, no problem that it doesn't... Secondly, I want to explain once again that there would be no controversy, I repeat once again the Dayton Peace Agreement is a temporary document and its Annex IV is also a temporary document. We are still in the process of implementing both military and civilian parts of the Dayton Agreement and, in this context, logically and formally-legal logic suggests that first this document should be adopted here, to obtain democratically full legitimacy and then to have amendments to such a simple document. That was my intensity. Let us adopt, simply for the first time in Parliament, simply to verify the Dayton Agreement and that is not the problem, but it is also not simply constitutionally explained enough, nor the constitutional experts simply have this agreement on these words that I am talking about. So my controversy, my internal controversy, and what was happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina motivated me to simply state what I was talking about and simply once again I respected the Dayton Agreement, I respect it today, I went to elections, I participated in its implementation, it is not disputed. It's a provisional document of the Dayton Agreement. So it's not a set-up, it's not a simple deal for centuries. Which means that's my explanation. In this context, I think, in the end, that I can also express one of my proposals, which also did not come across approval from the enlarged College, which means the proposal, given the importance of the country's highest legislative act, the country's highest legal act, that we try to try to give a secret vote in this House of Representatives as a way of voting. You'll say it's not in the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, the 136th member makes this possible. The Rules of Procedure of the House can be amended and it can simply enable the highest Institute of Democratic Procedure, which is a secret vote. I will vote publicly, but 19 secret ballots to protect people, who are tops and centres of political parties, to the greatest extent these days through consultations, through meetings, etc. Motivated, to say the least, motivated them to vote for and, simply to prevent any form of disobedience from the aspect of the political parties' centres and the leaders who negotiated this. Unfortunately, gentlemen and ladies, I must say, there has been some pressure on the MPs. First of all, those who have responded to constitutional changes and should be recognized in these words. So, the secret vote, as the largest institution of democratic procedure, is asking to vote and simply try to make a secret vote out of the country's highest legal act. A lot of arguments not to explain since the 15-day public debate here, simply such weather dynamics, which is absolutely unfavourable by, simply, constitutional amendments and everything else that happened in the end, I apologize to the entity's vote is the most controversial element of constitutional amendments, entity voting, proposed by the Venice Commission on 11 March 2005, to be kicked out of the House of Representatives, opposed to the mission of the House of Representatives, is contrary to the election of the House of Representatives and, absolutely unnecessary. This extra fuse is favored by an entity, so let me say one people, and in this context it is presented in the House of Peoples, it is absolutely unnecessary. I repeat again. Nothing founded in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. In this context, I suggest that cold heads consider trying to reach a consensus today, a little need for political will. If the political will of these six signatories is a political dictatorship and it is violence against the opinion of free thinking and arguments, then it will not be good for BiH. This country has not, as it is said, been fed up with, and simply trouble has become a virtue and defiance of becoming an integral part of the behavior of the people of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23345	I thank Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23346	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I think with full respect, In the end, I must also say, and I would ask, given that the US administration has been a mediator of these talks, I call it talks, not negotiations, not flags and two tables, but conversations, since the US administration has a full degree of responsibility for this constitutional reform project, as we strive to be the content of constitutional reforms, etc. It would be good to, perhaps, hear or hear from either the representative or if the chairman has some documents, which are the most recent character, which gives us a message that the continuity of constitutional changes in BiH will be ensured, because it is a more sophisticated project and in this context perhaps partly relax the situation in the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23347	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Sipović. Replications are business until three minutes. Don't intervene later, if I warn you on time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23348	I will, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, intervene from the legal point of view, Mr. Chairman of your earlier intervention, so you called that under Article 111 or 113. 20 adopts the two-thirds majority of the House of MPs, I would only correct you for the public's sake not to adopt amendments to the Constitution on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but rather to correct you, that is provided for in Article 10. The Constitution of point 1 of the amendment procedure. Second intervention. I consider myself a responsible MP and call on MPs in this esteemed home to present their political views and political views of the party, but since it is the political document of the Constitution, the biggest political act, which has in it other than political, sociological, legal and economical, and particularly from the aspect of BiH's sociological and position in international frameworks, that in this context and... and I call on MEPs to consult legal experts in the area of constitutional and legal matter and that they can competently discuss, constructively discuss in this House. In this context, please, I would like to rephrase the proposal of honourable MP Sead Avdić that he has proposed voting in this House on amendments with two-thirds of these votes. This proposal cannot be followed by the Rules of Procedure, as a clear procedure is provided for by Article 66 of the voting procedure by electronic means, by raising these or by calling each MP's calls, and by Article 67(4), when voting on amendments to the Constitution, then it must be notified to the public, that each MP voted in favour of constitutional amendments. In that context, it can't, it's the opposite. This proposal opposes the Rules of Procedure and I, as a responsible MP, since this, our historic session before this Parliament, is being followed by the public and representatives of the international community, who are heartily helping us to come out on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration and to do something good for this country, peoples and citizens, I propose that the vote be carried out in accordance with Article 66 individually by calling each MP and that the public knows that every MP voted for this. It's my parliamentary right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23349	Time, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23350	It's a replication and I suggest it in this context, and please, after the presentation of the president of my club from the U.S.A., I will focus on two directions to my discussion, one aspect politically, and the other one is legal-theoretic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23351	Thank you. Call for a hearing and you'll get your word. Mr. Sipović, thank you for this intervention, with the fact that I have to remind you exactly what it says in front of me that I said as House Chairman about procedures and I'm going to read it to you all one more time so there is no confusion. I have drawn attention to the fact that the basic legislative procedure is followed by the examination of the amendments, which is Article 111. So I didn't talk through Article 111 about two-thirds. Two-thirds are regulated in Article 113, and I have also made this particularly clear. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Elmir Jahić, president of the SDA Club in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the College of our House, members of the Presidency, all other officials and guests present today at this, indeed, important session of our home, and 21 should be significant, because, for the first time in ten years, we are in such a situation that the amendments and additions of the Constitution of BiH are on the agenda. In every country, we know very well that the constitution is the highest legal act and that the business of changing the constitution is an extremely complex, serious and difficult job, which is often accompanied by great dilemmas, arguments, counter-arguments, so if you want various fears, fears, etc. In view of the complex structure of BiH and in view of all the events, painful events, which were in our recent past, it is obvious and quite logical that all these phenomena in BiH are in our parliament and when we change our constitution, are much more intense. The citizens of BiH and the presidents of political factors and political parties in BiH, as well as in the international community, I would have dared to say from the very beginning, knew from the very signing of the Dayton Agreement that this constitution was extremely complicated, contradictory and, as we know, contrary to some provisions with the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but obviously there was no political will, and even if you wanted, there were a lot of dilemmas, fears that the Constitution was changing. The fact that, for the first time in ten years of parliamentary procedure, therefore, not imposed, but in parliamentary procedure, as foreseen by the current Constitution and how it is discussed everywhere in the democratic world, therefore, when we are discussing amendments to the Constitution in parliamentary procedure, in my opinion, is a great result, because we show first and foremost that we are ready to face all of these dilemmas and problems, which have been spoken about and in the public debate, and today will be very much, there will also be words. So that we are ready to face these dilemmas and issues on the one hand and willing to compromise on the other. The current situation, we all say, is not satisfied with the current situation, but the existing situation cannot be changed by non-action and, therefore, the Party of Democratic Action, believes that we must take this first step, that we must do something to move towards a change in the existing situation and that is the fundamental reason why we believe that we need to support both the principles and the amendments to the BiH Constitution. With some solutions, we are certainly not satisfied, however, there are obviously many good, many quality solutions, which should be supported, there are primarily solutions to BiH's competence, there are solutions around the Council of Ministers, the BiH Parliament, etc. It is obvious that for some existing solutions there is no political will and if these political solutions are present in the Constitution since '95. ..................................................................................................... years and, if these solutions are, so we could say in a mild conflict with political practice in democratic countries, but we know that all the social processes in BiH, politically, but also who have succeeded, we know that they have been a gradual, evolutionary step and step, I am talking about successful political and social processes in BiH. In this context, the Party of Democratic Action also observes this package of constitutional reforms, i.e. as an important step on the road, primarily BH society reforms, but also more expensive BiH. Because everyone agrees, here and today we have also seen those who support, who have so far publicly supported and those who have disputed these amendments, but I would dare to say that there is a consensus that these constitutional reforms should continue and that these reforms are not sufficiently deep and comprehensive and we have consensus there, but we also have convictions and promises, therefore, that the relevant political 22 representatives in BiH, but also relevant political representatives from the international community, so, if you want legal international experts in the form of the Venice Commission, etc., that this is only the first phase of constitutional reforms and thus confirms this agreement, which I hope we will adopt when we adopt BiH amendments. Since the SDA is committed to changing the existing situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's society and is more expensive, and the alternative is to change the status quo, therefore, the existing situation, given that we are experiencing BiH as a state of equal peoples and citizens, and that when making extremely significant political decisions, such as reform of the Constitution, there should be a sufficient number, i.e. enough political will of all three peoples and citizens in BiH, and with strong guarantees from domestic and relevant political factors international that constitutional reforms should continue, and that this is the first phase of constitutional reforms, the SDA Club supports these principles and amendments to the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23353	Thank you very much, Mr. Jahić. Next up is Mr Ibrahim Đedović. Please prepare Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23354	President-in-Office, members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, headed by the chairman, distinguished Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, I speak on behalf of the Democratic People's Community and on my own behalf and what I will say is the result of our reflections, no pressures, no blackmail, no motivations, the result of our views on the situation in BiH and our view of the proposed constitutional amendments. Firstly, I would like to say publicly that we are not satisfied with the way in which negotiations are being held, by selecting political entities, who participated in these negotiations and by developing the overall course of the negotiations. I don't think I need to elaborate. The term of the eight largest, strongest political parties was used, it was left out to account for the majority national composition of each individual political party, etc. The other thing that's not good for us is the fact that right after the release of the signed agreement in public created two blocks, I believe most of them didn't even read what was in it. Some were apriors for, some were apriors against and another negative thing for us is the use of very difficult words of betrayal, death of Bosnia, condemnation, loss of the consistency of the people etc. I think these are all terms that don't lead or offer anyone better, they don't offer well. I call today during the debate, and otherwise, to intend hard words, to devalue the meaning of those words, and not to help anyone. I think we need sober heads to talk to facts, not emotions. When we talk about the content of constitutional amendments, I would like to make it clear that our commitment to a functional state is arranged according to man. We are opposed to solutions in which man is arranged according to the state. The point of the state is to enable a man to live decently, and I think we all owe it to build and look for solutions that should finally bring a better life in this country. The pathways to a better life, we know that they are possible in two ways, and I want to say primarily here about change. They can happen by revolution or evolution. The revolution in this country is the only solution. 23 So it is our opinion that we can come to a solution and only by agreement. We see Bosnia and Herzegovina as the land from Bijeljina to Neum, from Nevesinj to Velika Kladhua, and we must seek dilution with all people living in that area. No one's goals can be fully met. We can't impose any solutions. So, instead of hard words, we must strenuously negotiate and the fact that someone thinks differently on a matter we must not view as opponents of the state, as an act of betrayal, we must look for questions in which we agree. I think this is the way we are looking at the current constitutional amendments and the changes. When we look at further content, I won't talk about certain chapters, but I want to say in general. No solution makes things worse in BiH. So none of the solutions offered go one step back. Even top critics say there are solutions, which offer a slight shift forward. If so, and I believe it is, by the logic of things, we should take these small steps, of course, responsibly, consciously and planically, wanting to build one step at a time. We represent citizens who want to live better, and everyone, regardless of the nation, no matter what he's called, wants to have a better school, wants to have a better job, wants to have a hospital, wants to have clothes, shoes, food, medicines, we already have people on the questionnaire, whether they have for this existential minimum, and we have to forget our wishes, we have to face this reality and build the path that these people offer better. So, believing what I said and taking care of what I said at the beginning, believing in the continuation of constitutional changes, clearly stressing that we are not satisfied with the content of the solutions offered, but believing that we will come to them in the way I said, I want to say that our position is to support constitutional amendments in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23355	Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23356	I once again welcome all those present and speak on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' club. So we are, absolutely for change, and the very essence and purpose of our existence is to build a normal, democratically decorated BiH. We've been since '96. We've been doing it in three sentences since the '96 election. The year, which allowed it to vote from other people's houses, to corporations that we still cannot agree on today, we constantly advocated the construction of BiH institutions, of course, and others, but obviously insufficiently and obviously ineffectively, because we did not have support. But things were happening. After a few years, the establishment took place, say, of the State Border Service, the BiH Court, the BiH Prosecutor's Office was imposed, i.e. by the adoption of the law by the High Representative. So we are for change. Why we are not in favour of the proposed amendments or amendments. Of course, I'm not going to talk about these principles that the promoter put forward, because I tried to get some interpretations through an earlier procedure, of course, that I didn't get. So here is not the financial aspect of this whole project at all, neither the public nor this Parliament has been told what this project is costing, but here I am now not doing it. We simply believe that such changes do not open the process, nor are the first step in changing concepts, i.e. constitutional matrix, which we 24 think makes the state completely dependent and brings it to a subordinate position in relation to entities and better said, brings entities to a supranational position in relation to the state of BiH. That this process is not being opened and that this first step is not taking place to change the concept and the matrix itself, this is confirmed in a way that defines the competences as defined in the amendments and in the current state. Therefore, they are always conditioned by entity voting and there is always a provision there all that is not explicitly stated that it is a state jurisdiction, the jurisdiction is an entity, and then it questions both those formulations and other regulated by law, etc. So there is always this circle, the perfect circle of instruments, which brings entities to a superior position in relation to the BiH state. What results we have and what philosophy we have, the BiH Party cannot accept that the BiH state is understood as an entity community. The BiH party cannot accept that the House of Representatives, the home of citizens, be the home of entities. We BiH institutions understand the original institutions of BiH, not the joint institutions of entities. We understand BiH's competences as original, not religious. So, confirming this concept does not integrate BH society, does not create general interest, but rather stimulates and retains processes of further divisions, supermation of the partial interest of the people over the general, here we have an example of the retention of entity voting, etc. There seems to be injustice to the Croatian people. So, this philosophy, nor do these solutions practically put the state in a position to solve internal socio-economic problems, nor give it the ability to meet the requirements of integration. In addition to all of this, we have shown a very specific co-operation, i.e. an attempt to co-operate and we have proposed a single amendment. The amendment concerns the abolition of entity voting in the House of Representatives. We would like to hear today, unlike the current procedures, of course, the promoter is not obliged, but it would be a great pleasure for us to hear what the promoter thinks about the amendments, not only ours but the amendments of the others, because we are wondering why, the argument that this amendment is acceptable. If we have a Council of Ministers, where we have built on parity, where we have installed a decision guaranteeing the safety of the representative of every nation that it can express, here I say in the executive power of the people, if we have a House of Peoples, under which it is an obligation to deliver every document that is adopted at the House of Representatives, therefore, to provide for insight and if we have a vital national interest, you will agree very, very broadly, if we have a rotation in the Presidency, a consensus in deciding on essential matters, the question of what entity vote in the House of Representatives, in the House of Citizens, is raised. We fear that this is due to retaining this position of entity authority over the BiH state and retaining all possible levers, instruments that will affirm always the will or interest of entities in relation to the state. Of course, we have tried in these few months to present our views to the public, organising the stands, of course, as others with different approaches etc. which is good in any case for the citizens of BiH to finally learn and understand some things. I must argue that, practically, after ten years, for the first time, the Dayton Constitution of the citizens of BiH may have begun to understand what it is and what solutions it has and what content it has in all. So, we believe that there is no necessary speed, that if constitutional changes do not take place until the elections, that BiH will not fail, or something disastrous will happen to the citizens of BiH. We believe that this public debate should continue, involve the entire society, civil society, all structures, include the professional public, which was very little. We have published an expert expertise in daily news, trying to make it available to citizens. We think that further to the process, more respect should be given to the official views and the US Senate, the European Parliament, the Venice Commission, the Monitoring Council of Europe, etc. and in 25 one, so to speak, a calmer atmosphere comes out with arguments and after a broad public debate comes up with a solution that will be acceptable to everyone. So, depending on the proponent's relationship to our amendment, we will determine the totality of the package we have in front of us. I am not an optimist, for the simple reason that the promoters have a limited situation signed agreement, etc., but in certain situations, Mr. Sead Avdić said something, however, intervened. So, here, we will wait to see whether the proposings will make a statement about this, but by assessing the relationship, the relationship we have now had with our amendments, we will vote against the proposed amendments, believing that today by voting against the amendment that we are voting to continue the process, which will lead to a change of concept, or matrix of the constitutional solution in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23357	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. rieč has Mr Nikola Špirić, the second vice president of the House of Representatives. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23358	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, your Excellency, namely I will stick strictly to the agenda and talk about the principles on which the amendment rests and, I suppose, you will all speak, and then we will have, if we move to another stage of reason to talk about the amendments that have been tabled. But before I speak of the principles, I want to publicly welcome all those political parties leaders, representatives of the international community, ambassadors, the EU, the United States, who are in an indirect way, in one sense, to help today on the table for the first time, after 10 years of signing the Dayton Peace Agreement, we have concrete principles and amendments. And that's why I like the tone of the debate so far. In fact, what this is supposed to mean today for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. This was supposed to be a joy. And why not, let's ask ourselves a question. Because so far, when any reform has been carried out, leaders among which sometimes, or here I am, and I have promoted exactly what they disagree about. They never got the strength to promote what they agree on. That's why every reform in the public was welcomed with the reserve, because they were terrified. These days too, they're terrified of constitutional change. I want to say that these are radical shifts in the reform of the Constitution, in my view. Radical for reasons because they were aimed at creating effective state structures that would accelerate Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. I think a radical change in the presidency reform has been made. Radical in an electoral and essential sense. So we have the president's and his deputies' clear powers, and that's the address Brussels wants to see in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why would it bother someone in this country to rotate with clear powers every 18 months? Is that what it takes to get somebody excited? I don't mind. I have to be honest, there's been a change that's fundamental. So you know that the choice so far was to elect members of the entity presidency. Now it's gone. So they are elected within Parliament from representatives of national delegations. Why would it bother Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat? Why? I don't see any reason, except the entity lost direct electoral rights. But here we had a statement from the Venice Commission that basic human rights were being violated and I think a quality shift was made. But ladies and gentlemen, those who have the fear of transferring the authority does not mean the negation of the entity. We need to understand each other to the end. If someone thinks transfer of authority means 100% negation, it's a deep delusion. Read the Venice Commission report and in these amendments, in which it encourages and those who have the reserve that it is a quality step. I think there's been a quality step in Parliament's reform. Who could have dreamed two years ago that we'd have a president of the state parliament. So with the deputies, the president of the state parliament, no rotation. And we have a rotation in the presidency. An increased number of parliamentarians who are due to speed up the country's legislative path towards Brussels and to Atlantic integration. And that is the dimension that Parliament must gain. Because what was the essence of modern European parliamentarians was a formality. Because 42 parliamentarians were rarely members of ten parliamentary committees. They couldn't read the law. And instead of getting rid of everything on the board, it's only beginning to be our suffering when it's a parliamentary session. That's when the quarrels begin, because what needs to be resolved by the parliamentary committee or commission, with us constantly solving the spoils, and we had nothing but conflicts and generating conflicts in front of the public. So there's a high-quality shift. Maybe the reduction was made in terms of trying to bring down a single-home parliament, because the House of Peoples essentially serves to protect only vital national interests. I think it's a good thing that vital national interests are defended within the House of Peoples at the state level. Everything else in Bosnia and Herzegovina is surplus. Excess are the people's entitiotic homes. And I assume that the second stage will deal with that reform. So vital national interest to defend itself at the state level. A radical step is within the Council of Ministers. The other thing is someone's going to call the government, some council of ministers to say that nothing happened again. Radical views are increasing the number of ministries and areas regulated at the state level. Radical views of the decision are because decisions are said to be made by consensus. And if it is not achieved then in the second phase, it means one vote by ministers from the constituent peoples, including the vote of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. What's the matter with that? Why do we need a decision in which all of the people are against it? Why would she look forward to me? I think it's the lowest level that should have been left as a element of protection. God forbid we're in a situation where we trust each other, so we don't need any protection mechanisms. And if I were right, the Presidency has therefore given up human rights to regulate at this stage for reasons why we are masters in this country for violating human rights, not for repairs. And it'll take a serious team to deal with in phase two. And it's going to be a second stage thing, and it's a good thing it didn't get into that. So this is about, in my opinion, well-measured principles that are neither a negation nor an entity. There's a transfer of the entity's jurisdiction to the state and I think it needs to be completely clear and open and I don't think that transfer means entity negation. So I don't think it's even that. Another thing I think is that colleague Avdić said whether this should be done or not, I'm not replicating today as a burden. This should be taken as pride today. Not as a burden. Ten years after Dejton changed his country's constitution that bled for four years within the Parliamentary Assembly is pride, and he to whom he.... in the election of the burden, he is getting rid of it. [[- You don't understand.]] He says he takes off his bag, people are hard on me, I prefer to do other things than this. And that's why I think this is supposed to be a little ceremony today. 27 And what is particularly important, on these constitutional changes we have our hands out of Vašington and Brisel. Here's the question is whether we're going to show that maturity, or we're going to act like a kid who needs to walk, so when he sees a stranger, instead of handing out and making the first step, it falls on his ass running away from him. But this is, let's not forget our home product. So this is the leader's deal, and that's why today and those who had reserves, and today they're close for me to say hello. I'm sorry if the fact that they weren't present was the reason for their skepticism to see what the pain was and to reach this level of agreement, and that's why I think we should use these outstretched hands and take the first step. What's going to be phase two, phase three? As citizens live in this country and its entities, they will have the legitimate right to make demands for change and correction of the Constitution, and they are legal and legitimate. What is losing consensus will be constitutional change, as it says in the Venice Commission's report. That's why I call on those who are skeptical to dialogue to reach consensus. I don't think their proposals are less important than the ones we agreed on, but the worst thing would be for this country and all its citizens to have the second stage be the repeat of the first phase. And that's why I am all those who think we have enough time to repeat the first phase of warning that we're wasting our time and taking advantage of the outstretched hands of friends who aren't without reason here today. First of all, I want to welcome everyone who is present and who is following this debate and who are not without reason here and of course we will decide whether we will have such a desired assistance from the international community that we have often called upon. And please, those who are full of the mouth of the sovereignty of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina let her take the first step. If you put a foot on her and in the first step, I'm afraid she'll have to wait a second step longer than many would like. So I ask all those who think that we need to build consensus and dialogue to come to a solution to accept principles. When we talk about amendments, my political option, since it's part of this political agreement, has honestly not proposed amendments even though I have to say that I am one of the people who has reserves, personal reserves. And this is when someone says if the leaders called, so the point is the political parties to manage the processes, at least the ones they channel. Yes, but people called and said don't rock, support step one. And I don't think it's any kind of political pressure, but simply a desire to succeed, and I don't think, we didn't propose amendments because we don't think it's possible today to get the Olympic will to adopt them. There's a colleague, Belkić, right. And so I call once again on colleagues who are with any amount of reserve that they will have in the SNSD parties who today vote representatives for dialogue for future changes, so that I would like to point out once again to you the Venice Commission report which says that the most necessary reform of the Federation Constitution is. Maybe it's phase two. We are not in Republika Srpska thinking that this second phase, even if it concerns it, will not harm the Republika Srpska, or will not concern Republika Srpska. But we have to tell you where the problem is, where the problem is to define and solve it together. In order to seek the best solution, we think that this is enough and we will also support principles and we will not support any amendments to allow principles and amendments to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23359	I thank Mr. Špirić. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Azra Hadžiomerović, then Mr. Hadžiahmetović, I apologize. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23360	I thank the chairman, respected members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, and I had a need to replicate, as far as the fundamental principled stance presented by the chairman of the Party for BiH Club, Mr. Beriz Belkić. counterpart Špirić mentioned that entity voting is an entity protection mechanism. I will remind you fellow Špirić that all mechanisms for the protection of the people, i.e. all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are foreseen by the institutions, i.e. the House of Peoples and the mechanisms provided for. What is fundamental and objectionable, as regards principled matters, i.e. the basic principles on which the whole package of arrangements, or constitutional amendments submitted in the parliamentary procedure, is this structure, i.e. the entity protection mechanism. I am very pleased that my colleague Špirić made it very clear today in his presentation of his party's views, and I am sorry that so far in presenting all these constitutional amendments and the advantages of the amendment to the Constitution is not as clearly said as he said earlier. You say what's going to be phase two or we'll leave something in phase two. What we're going to do is we're going to be in phase two if you're fundamentally starting to protect entities, or you're not leaving anyone room to talk about whether this entity is good or bad, because in the first phase, you protected them. Such fundamental debates, I think, have not been in the first step so far, i.e. in the first phase, and I will only remind you that this concerns not the amendment of the Party for BiH, which is just another amendment to the amendments, etc., but concerns the principle of things and basic arrangements, i.e. the principle on which the first step of the amendments to the Constitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina rests. I would just like to remind you that the Venice Commission also considered this principle of voting a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23361	Thank you very much. We have, just slowly Mr. Špirić replica, so sir. To his exposure. Well, then before Mr. Avdić, since he's got it on yours. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23362	...at this meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today. On the other hand, we also agree that we should look into this session for a political concentration of minimums that will unite all political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would not be good for radical overvotes to be defeated or defeated, those who are for Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are against Bosnia and Herzegovina, those who are being heard conditionally by the international community and those who oppose the international community's opinion. So it would be devastatingly real for today's debate. So I support this kind of harmony and search for political consensus at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I'm also obliged to say, the US administration was a key factor, an argument to reach these constitutional amendments, and it brought together these political leaders. 29 It is probably hard with its will to gather together and work on constitutional changes, and that is one of the achievements that should be respected and thanked. I'm sorry that OHR, you see, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are two institutions of government. Piasi and the outgoing Peace Implementation Council canal in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which have their OHR as the executive body of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Legal Institute, the Legal Institute, is truly sorry to me, the OHR has been paroled from this process, they are obliged and obliged to participate in the processes of simple and reconstruction of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they have the highest level of authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they still have the Bosnian powers, etc. And in this context, it would be good to really, with all due respect, mean me once again, the international community, the legal institute of the government all responsible for the fate of this country, and also responsible together with us for the parliamentaryization of the Framework Peace for, or the Dayton Agreement, and what is more, the Constitution. And finally, the Venice Commission has two reports. On 11 April, the Venice Commission gave an opinion on the constitutional situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year and made it quite clear its opinion on the ethnic way of voting, deeming it unnecessary simply the opposite of the mission, I told the House of Representatives' choice that it was a citizen's home, etc. etc. So, absolutely, you can't defend the enthusiastic voting principle in the House of Representatives. In that context, a second statement was issued on 7 April, she said the controversy over entity voting should not be sufficient reason not to vote for constitutional changes. For the truth. I'm just quoting that I know. Monitoring the Committee on Bosnia and Herzegovina, considering what it has received from the Venice Commission, also apostorises and problems the ethnic vote, if it will look at it and says it would be good to discuss it in the next stages of the reconstruction of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23363	Thank you very much. Mr. Šprić syringe. So we have two more replicas. Yes, sir, it is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23364	I'll, of course, be very brief in the tone of looking for a solution. So this is not a replica to continue replicas in negatives, etc. Thanks to my colleague Azra, I guess we didn't get along so well. I was talking about principles, not amendments. And I'll say why I won't vote for that amendment. We've been here eight years, I've been in one home or another for eight years. After the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the entity vote was an exclusive national vote, which today is neither by structure nor by composition. Please let the public know. It was me who gave tones to adopt the law in two RS Bosniak votes with three Serbian votes. Why do we always approach change on the negative side? I agree that it can also be a frustrating element of protection. So I agree. But venecijanski warns that it shouldn't be a stalemate at this stage that has fears. Fear has a thousand. If I were to list my fears, I'd probably be able to do it by dawn. And I said transfer of jurisdiction is not a negation of entities. Well, don't let me count what's been passed on now. And you know it as well as I do. And that was transmitted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 30 I apro for what it is, so entity voting is already not an exclusive national vote, and this change, if it goes through today, and I believe it will, by increasing the number of MPs, it will reduce that ratio and that frustration. Will there be enough other thoughts? We'll see. But what my colleague Avdić was talking about, I also want the same to be known and to say that there is also the latest letter that came from Stadparmert from Konzolica Rajs, which warns this parliament that Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be left behind, that it will work together with representatives of the government to reach the best possible solution. So if someone's got fear, here's his guarantee of a stronger house. If it's not his guarantee, Nikola Špirić, then I guess that country you swore to was all of us together until yesterday. Or here's the EU saying -- we're behind it. Now are we going to warm our fears to each other, or are we going to accept what I'm saying with our hands out to those who are guaranteed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23365	Thank you very much. Azra's replica again. So the replica is still Mr. Sipović and then there's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23366	I, of course, did not explain Mr Belkić's amendment, or the Party for BiH, which will be discussed a little later, but rather replicated fellow Špirić's statement that an entity vote would require a protection mechanism. If there are protection mechanisms in the House of Peoples for the Peoples of BiH, then the only protection mechanism is the protection of entities and in this sense my replica has been directed, which is good to see clearly on what basis they are founded to say the changes that are ahead of us today, that is, what we are discussing. I'll just say that by doing so, or what is the essential remark of the Party that this makes the House of Representatives home to the entity. It is so far, and it is true that this provision exists so far in this way and voting in the House of Representatives, but I appreciate that the conditions have been met, colleague Špirić, that we are discussing some different concept and arrangement, even if we have concluded during the debate that the existing one is excellent. And we all know it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23367	Please, I think it's clarified. Here you go, Mr. Špirić, but make a contribution to discussing the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23368	So if the point is to get someone to vote for the Constitution, then I'm discussing the essence. If this is the only comment and fear of the BiH Party, then what has been done so far is ideal. It's the only comment. I have thousands of objections and it can't be, please, and it can't be just the protection of entities. There's no physical entity protection here. There's not just one people living in an entity, not in this or that. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23369	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23370	Okay, well, you'll all be talking, but my meaning of my story wasn't about that tone. Is the extra protection mechanisms? It'll depend on us to build trust in this country that we don't need any protection. But it's a process. It is a process and it is likely that in this country it will need x y protection mechanisms to establish a normal environment that is in the interests of citizens and all of us living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23371	Thank you very much. Replica. First Sipović and Huskić. Please respect your time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23372	I also have to partially replicate the constitutional principles that are here. It is clear to me that the amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are ahead of us to adopt them, according to my deep assessment of the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are functionally capacitated by at least 30 to 40, perhaps 50% in a functional sense for what Europe and the world requires of us on Euro-Atlantic integration. Please empty rhetoric without an argument legally based on the entry into the essence of the amendment introduces wrong premises, and then when wrong premises are entered, then the mathematical formula wants to display an incorrect result. And then those who are ignorant in public with big statements then come up with a blur on a certain thing. Oh, please, the essence of where it stands. Please, what Mr. Nikola Špirć said, so for the first time, this house has been capacitated with twice the number of MPs who will functionally pass the laws. And what? Well, most of all on the civil principle. More ethnicity of election units is abolished. It receives elements much more civil than what the European international community requires of it to make this state functional. He gets, no one says that more like the gentleman said so give me those arguments to discuss. To say it is no longer an exclusive right to elect entity MPs in the House of Peoples. So it is possible from all entities to come all from the constituent peoples to the House of Peoples. Keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23373	Time, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23374	Bureau members also appear to be coming.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23375	Time, Mr. SIpović. You signed up for the replica. Call for a debate, you'll get a word with no problem, and I'm asking you to respect your colleagues. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23376	One part and please absolutely no argument. Please welcome here the original powers are so precisely defined. And they don't say entities are superiors. It is clear that this phase of constitutional amendments is the relationship between the reality of political forces and the position of the international community. And the third and I, and my political option has, let's say, a suggestion and a remark, say, maybe the abolition of that amendment, that entity vote. But we are fully aware, credible that we have supported this package as a political compromise that will take place in this country in advance. And please, when you refer to the provisions then call on the entity vote and the provision of Article 1(3) and then the real experts will at times explain to us the reasons why this mechanism had to be at this stage. I like it very much. I like it very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23377	I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23378	that entity voting is no longer an exclusive national vote, but is only vitally protected in the House of Peoples, and we have a Constitutional Court with powers that are being blocked very effectively by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is supposed to block all these blockades, any blockades that pessimistically think of resolving them. In this context
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23379	We've run out of time for replicas twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23380	In this context, I really respect distinguished colleagues with different options and respected counterpart Belkić Beriz. I'm glad he's expressing his willingness to support constitutional changes, but I'd like to ask him, please, please, he can't. Wait, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23381	Mr. SIpović, please, time for the replica has elapsed twice in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23382	I'd just like to ask
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23383	Please can you accept and other colleagues have requests for replication and discussion. I think we've shown tolerance. Here's what we've been over twice the time. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Please. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23384	I'm just finishing one sentence. I'm only finishing one sentence for the public. Please. I believe, gentlemen, and especially the representatives of the international community, if MPs in this House were to discuss legally and professionally, then one in a tolerated democratic procedure would come to a solution. And here, obviously, constitutional legal science is denied, and then by politicizing it, it's trying to bring in one tension that doesn't come in favor of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23385	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. Thank you very much. Please respect other MPs who are also seeking clarification, replication and debate. I have another replica. Mr. Huskić. And I ask you to respect the MPs who applied for the debate and to hear all the clubs and positions, and then we'll open an additional debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23386	I thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I will be replicating Mr. Špirić, but before I say so, Mr. Chairman, I will ask you to take this debate a little seriously. This is today, and many have already said this about the historic day of Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter how this debate is over, and I ask you to make it impossible for people to rejoice with discussions or replicas. I think this is too big a thing to cheer people up and use cameras to cheer the public up. Mr Špirić is in his discussion or replica, I no longer remember saying that entity voting is not a national vote. Our amendment refers to an entity vote. I'm just saying that it is exactly a national vote and that that's exactly why I personally as an individual, and that's why we're against that entity vote. What's this about? I'll explain that briefly. There are 14 MPs here from the RS, two of whom are not Serbs, 12 are Serbs and that is more than 2/3. This can always be misused in a way to block decision-making and to disable Parliament's work, and Parliament depends on the election of the Presidency and the election of the Council of Ministers, etc. I'll remind you of just one more thing. Before the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina on a space today called Republika Srpska, Serbs accounted for 55% of the population. So 45% of the population were not Serbs. According to this ratio of the population and the number of MPs who are from Republika Srpska today, it would be possible for 8 MPs to be Serbs. It is less than 2/3, and in this case representatives of the Serbian people in the House of Representatives could not block decision-making. In this way, people who have left RS territory under different circumstances are now not represented. There has been a dramatic change in the population structure, and that fact is now being used in entity voting. That's why I'm against the amendment, against the changes that will keep the entity voting. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23387	Thank you very much, Mr. Huskić. Replica Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23388	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've really tried to refrain from replicating some of these discussions or some replicas of replicas, and I have to say that I'm only going to say one sentence, and the rest I'm going to look back at in the debate. I'm really curious as to why the will of an entity expressed by 2/3 is considered an abuse? Since when is this abuse, dear gentlemen? Look, we, when we entered this process of constitutional change, were also afraid, we too had fears, fears that there would be attempts to transpose BiH's basic constitutional arrangement. I must say that some of these discussions convince me that we have had legitimate fears. I beg you gentlemen, it's not an abuse. That's the will. And I'm asking you to treat it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23389	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. Before Mr. Zorić, the replica of Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23390	So, Mr. Novaković, then you have to tell him the following -- I understand what you said, so 2/3 is the will of the entity. So I was saying that we don't want to accept that this home is an entity home, that this is a citizen's home and that this country is an entity community. That's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23391	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Zorić. Here you go. A debate, not a replica. No more reports for replicas. To the replicas, Mr. Lagumdžija. Well, I mean, it's enough just to listen carefully and not have any problems. So Moranjkić, then Žilić, then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. The order of the reported, then Mr. Kunić, then Nijaz Duraković, is the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23392	I was a little embarrassed when Mr. Sipović spoke and I thought maybe I could give up because I can't hold here a legal expert debate like he is presenting to us, but I will still speak here and I won't give up my debate. Mr Tihić, who explained the amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to us here on behalf of the promoters, came from the beginning and mentioned that 8 political parties had initially negotiated. It seems to me that I've heard enough will be enough to get me to blink and from the place, I'll repeat for the stenogram that she mentioned that she was also negotiating the political party HNZ. So, since the DNZ is parliamentary and the HNZ is not, I don't know if it was wrong, or if it really was HNZ 35 negotiating, because I don't see why the CNZ would negotiate, and it's not political, it's not a parliamentary party. The club I led or led was and remained for the change of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we showed by the initiative and conclusion in this home since 31 March 2004, so more than two years ago. We held a public debate, and that long one was ignored. The club's main objection is that the agreement was taken outside Parliament. So no, no respect was given to parliamentary bodies, no respect was given to the MPs in this parliamentary assembly and could not affect the content of the agreement which was the basis for the adoption of such amendments to the Constitution. So in one part, at one point when the agreement was written, it was thrown into the public's eyes of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was very important to elect members of the Bosnia and Hercegovan presidency, and all of this is irrelevant. Here's what if it's elected by the representatives of some nations, then they've won one victory, and I'd say the pyre's victory. And I said then, it seems to me to the public if six or if the Presidency in its amendment said that Vinko Zorić would appoint three members of the Presidency, I would again be against these constitutional changes, because these constitutional changes are worse than we have had so far. Why? We'll start in a row. The House of Peoples is abolished, because if the House of Nations does not have the function it has so far, and it is called the House of Representatives, it is simply a committee of the House of Representatives. Whoever chooses you will listen. Because what we do if we're not satisfied with the commission's report. We say, "Let's do a new report." And then the commission makes a new report. We, not us, but the future House of Representatives will choose the House of Peoples. That's not right. This is not a reflection of the situation and the articulation of the votes of the people in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. Greater articulation has been, for example, so far. The Croats and Bosniaks chose the clubs of the people in the House of the Federation, which came from the canton, or the Serbs from the National Assembly of the RS. But let's get back to facts a little bit more about the deal. Mr Tihić said 8 parties have entered into the negotiations. Of which 3 is conditional on a Serbian omen, 3 with Bosniak and 2 with a Croatian omen. At the end of the agreement we have Serbian parties 3 out of 3 – 100%, Bosniak 2 out of 3 – 66%, Croatian one of two – 50%. Pretty much, if not worse, so are the peoples and passed that agreement. It is clear to me, too, that the debate and colleagues of Špirić and everyone else who is here at all bells, all mouths praise this agreement. The only veto in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly is a veto of enthusiasm. There's no other one. There is no other veto in the Parliamentary Assembly. If there is, of course someone will replicate to me later and say there is. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, which here is explicit and said that the president and vice presidents must not be of the same constituent people. It's a very bad formulation, even for me that I don't even understand the right as some of my colleagues here. What does that mean? Does that mean that the president and one vice president can be of the same kind? Why could it not be written that members of the presidency are Bosniak, Serbian and Croat? Is that a lot more text? But there are clear intentions, clear intentions in this country that it is easier to rule with two than three. That should be made plain here. And that's the point of all this. And the meaning of today's establishment of a agenda for someone to hide, for God's sake, and the agreement has been accepted by this, this parliamentary assembly. We can't play hide-and-seek anymore. Everything will come out. The Constitutional Legal Commission has accepted, I think, 6 amendments, of which 2-3 amendments have been accepted in order to get two more votes for these constitutional changes. Well, it's clear. It's all clear we're just not going to speak in an exact dictionary. We're gonna play some hide-and-seek here. It is surprising that some political parties that have signed the agreement have the most, in fact have an amendment to how many other political options in the Parliamentary Assembly together, but will again vote for just one amendment has not been accepted. Isn't that funny? Isn't that selling something under something? That's not gonna work. The public and voters will be on time to know who did and what he was doing. We're told there's going to be a second phase here. You accept this, and there's no problem. What we need is a second phase when we are equal to both entities of all three peoples. That's what we're told at the pay phone. So listen, we have three people, they're all constitutive. We have two entities no problem at all. Who defends the Croats in Republika Srpska to win 80% of the mandate and protect themselves entity here? Niko one's defending them. No Niko's defending them. Hrvat are free to get out of these 14 whether it's 12 terms. No Niko's defending them. They just need Serbs to vote for the wrestling. It's just a condition. It is to us when we have voted many laws here, and mentioning the Law on indirect taxation, the Taxation Act is said, just be patient for a month and a new law will come that will make all citizens in this country, for example. heating in the social category. You know how long it's been since then? Two years. And they'll never do that, because there's no political will. There will never be another phase. Either he wants to in the sense that Mr. Špirić is saying that the second phase will be a little bit about human rights or I don't know at one seminar Mr. Tihić said that the second phase could be the possible abolition of the vice president to be the only president of BiH, etc. etc. What I still saw here was Mr. Đedović's debate. Mr. Đedović said for a few minutes that no one was scared, that there was no pressure, etc. I don't know if anyone here is afraid? I don't. No one pressured me, but dear colleagues, if any of you have been pressured, don't give up. Don't give yourself up or tell the public that someone's been putting pressure on you and who. There's no one on me. My position has been since the first publication of the agreement through the media, of course the media has received it much earlier than parliamentary deputies, I have expressed my position and he is clear. If the amendments submitted by Mr. Raguž on behalf of the Club are accepted we will support the constitutional amendments. So we know what we want. We're not against it, just to be against it. And we are not against just because incompetent people have negotiated at the initial stage in front of political parties and have negotiated people who do not have parliamentary deputies. I'll say one more thing in the end. Mr. Špirić mentioned his ass here. And that's what the backside says in Croatian. One of the staunch advocates of these constitutional changes was his colleague when he was in this parliamentary assembly told his cheek under the buttocks for a minute and it passed. Vote – what do you care! And we who do not support it will tell the Croatian electoral body, in the first row, that the Croats were sitting on their cheeks.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23393	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Mr. Lagumdžija first answered, so Mr. Džedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23394	It doesn't occur to me to replicate everything that would take a lot more time than politeness allows. Especially this appeal of yours to keep us brief. 37 But there's only one sentence here I want to express my dissatisfaction. I'm one of the signatories of the agreement. A lot of things I didn't agree with so far, but I'll have a chance to say when I speak, when I answer my word. But to say that they have signed three Serbian parties, two Bosniaks, one Croatian is above all an insolence, the other incorrectly and the third particularly does not match the character of this home. SDP, I've been undermining the current president of the party. In negotiations ahead of the SDP while Beriz Belkić was still in charge of negotiations for the nine months, led by MPs' Club President Jozo Križanović. The party's vice president as lawyer, Željko Komšić, participated in the talks with me. But they did not participate in the name of the Hrvat, nor did I in the name of the Bošnjak. We also participated in the name of Hrvat and Bošnjak and Srbin and citizens of this country as representatives of the political party that received as many votes as it had received. I find the count of parties here by the name and last name of their leaders incorrectly planted. I responsibly claim that I never, nor anyone representing the SDP has signed an agreement that is at the expense of any nation in this country, regardless of which party, from which nation the signator comes, but the face would make those things when people sit on them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23395	Thank you, Đedović, so Mr Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23396	Since Honorable counterpart Zorić mentioned my name, I will explain very briefly what this is about. In my presentation, I said that we had not had the opportunity to read the contents of constitutional agreements, constitutional amendments, and that this was the reason for our feeling, or non-determination. The media published lists 20 days ago where they came as controversial names Altić, Avdić, Đedović, Mrs Komšić, and about that, let's say public polemics. We now had the opportunity to hear from the speaker Sead Avdić, a colleague who said that some were least, slightly motivated by something, etc. We had the opportunity to hear an esteemed fellow Potočnik who told those who were indecisive to talk, who would get and what they would get in that sense. So taking care of those elements I said what I said. Nothing's been offered, nothing's been asked for, nothing's been given. We didn't want to determine each other sooner because we didn't know the contents. Why are we so determined, I explained. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23397	I thank Mr. Đedović. Mr. Zorić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23398	If a stenogram of what I was talking about was read, I said eight political parties entered the negotiations and I said conditionally. I'm surprised Lagumdžija got so angry, insulted, that this bothered him, and for a year the media has written parties from the Federation, parties from the RS, Croatian parties, Bosniak parties, Serbian parties and never responded with an open letter to the media to do so again. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23399	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik. Please, Mr. Sipović, I'm giving you the word and you'll get the word within three minutes. If the time is too late, because I'm the first time, you'll get the word, please, in order. I'm trying to get you all the same treatment and respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23400	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I did say that, but I did not name anyone, and I said for one basic reason that in Bosnia and Herzegovina democracy was accepted as a Nazi, and political parties systems are one-party, or such that only the leaders of these parties lead politics. And that is why I have warned and repeated on purpose and before the public that those who would like to press on to someone would be intimidated, and that those who would like to take something, as they primarily represent the interests of a good man in Bosnia and Herzegovina, rather than the leaders of certain parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23401	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23402	I'll be very brief, specific. Replication to honourable fellow MP Zorić. So when you said you were embarrassed by my discussion, because I am calling for legal arguments and constitutional law, we are just discussing constitutional amendments by fellow fellow Zorić. So all the delusions you make here in this House are the product of you not consulting the expert team of your lawyers from your party who know constitutional legal matter. Well, then you'd be very competent to make certain views. You're still making a substitute for the thesis, so you say there's no veto in Parliament for national voting. Please. Well, it's the essence of the House of Representatives as a citizen that the electoral body has no national exclusive right. The replacement is because you believe that every nation should have the exclusive right one political party has the exclusive right. Here's the Serbian people who have no exclusive SDS right to represent only Serbs. There are other political options. Now it is and Croatian options have this as well as Bosniaks
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23403	Thanks. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23404	Please, time's up. What you're saying is there won't be a second phase, it's just a fear of the people. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23405	I'm setting up a five-minute party at the clubs, respect the Rules of Procedure. I respect him as much as possible. We can keep working. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking the MPs to sit down. Before we continue to work, allow me some technical information. So in this apartment you have been given letters addressed to me as the president of the House Representatives who arrived immediately during the session, as well as a letter from Mr. Nikol Sabars in the signature and from Mr. Baroz who came to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are therefore on the stand that all MPs should have full information on all the important elements of the debate on this agreement. Also, before we continue the debate, I would like to welcome all the ambassadors present. Now I've got the final list of our protocol, so let me welcome those I didn't really welcome and say to the public, who are all present today to this session. This is the Ambassador of Austria Mr. Verner Armuhofer, Ambassador of Canada Šejli Viting, Ambassador of the European Commission Mr. Majk Hemfriz, Ambassador of France Henri Ziperdefijani, Ambassador of Germany, is present here, Ambassador of Japan Itare Umezu, Ambassador of the Netherlands.... Ambassador of Turkey Bulen Tulum, Ambassador of Great Britain Metju Rehkroft, I have already welcomed Mr. Daglas Meklejeni, Ambassador of the United States. In the introduction, I did not welcome Mr. Josip Vrbošić, the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia, or Deputy Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to Ms. Dunja Levak, then the Czech Ambassador to Mr. Ižija Kudel, Slovenian Ms. Nataša Vodušek, Polish Deputy Ambassador to Ms. Silvija Kolgijer, Swedish Ambassador to Mr. Lars Erik Vingiren, Spanish Ambassador to Hoze Marija Kasovijo Bolivan. Here again, if I have not mentioned anyone else, I also welcome the representatives of the Office of the Council of Europe, Mrs Radmila Stojadinović, and the Office of the Council of Europe in Sarajevo, Mr Dizdar. We're going back to work. Next up for debate, sir. Before we discuss the response to the replica in the time frame. Mr. Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23406	Well, my colleague Sipović didn't understand me. He's replicated it. I'll just say it and say it again. I'm not ashamed of his argument, but I was at one point embarrassed that I wasn't as professional as he was and I thought whether to discuss it at all or not. So it's not about him saying something bad, but I was in one doubt at a time. That's it. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23407	Okay. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Moranjkić. Let Mr. Žilić prepare, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bureau member, gentlemen of the Ministers, honored guests, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, since we have before us amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as is the item of the agenda, and it is the first reading that means the debate on the principles of adopting this most important act for this country. I will try to be brief, so I will compare my views and my views on certain things in the course of the adoption and content of the solutions offered through the amendments. First, the way under the alleged signs of tailoring of the offered solutions and composition under the alleged signs of these tailors was questionable and unacceptable for me to be publicly on 16 January, so more than three months ago, before the start of that day of this Parliament's session, before the adoption of the agenda pointed out in these benches, which I can either deny or confirm my colleagues and present. I claim that the public has been excluded from tailoring under the supposed signs of this constitution, and the public debate due to pressure or pressure after formally being carried out within 15 days which I consider to be both an MP and a citizen that is not enough, that it was mere formality, and in order to confirm its claim, is that no single word of this public debate has been incorporated into the amendments, or solutions, pardon, which have been offered. Under three amendments, something changes, I must put this thing again under the supposed signs, which is formally legally questionable about what is being led here in terms of fortification and not fortification, but in any case enough for at least professional people to get into the final explanation of that questionable attitude. I'm sorry again. The fourth proposed solutions in these amendments to the Constitution are not what every citizen of this country expects of the Constitution, and these are the shortest said to provide a good organisation of the state in terms. Excuse me. I'm really sorry. I'm so lazy, I'm sorry. To provide a good organisation of the state in terms of functionality, to provide cheap under the supposed signs of the state and a better life of citizens in it and to provide me with a normal state, not what it is, and I think it's a specific person in the world. I wonder if we've gotten these changes? I say we're not, but it would be incorrect if I didn't say that the truth was made and good changes, that there are good solutions. But I don't think they're enough, and the voice of the public says even a harsher word called cosmetic, even though I won't use that word, I said it was the voice of the public. Why is it so likely that we all know that in the field why such solutions are offered, why there were no others or beyond, the answers are that they will be solved in so-called. Phase two. The public, and I personally believe that I must express my skepticism here. Under 5. Since it was a questionable way of making these changes, because it was natural for you all to see the need to conduct yourself in this way, and we are also an expression of this opinion and the suspicions of these citizens, because it was taking place, whether you know it or not, and I really don't see the need to do so, so I intervened in this House to make certain pressures, and whether or not I want to admit it or not, maybe it's a big word, but I'm going to use my maybe word of persuasion whether someone is right or wrong when it is expressing its opinions, 41 of my own thinking and perhaps suggestions for their solutions. I probably love this country more than many who are on the street, or even here said that whoever doesn't love this country won't vote for these changes, etc. That, both as a man and as an apostle, is an insult. Knowing of one general, one general thought of citizens and one willingness of citizens to accept these solutions, I have interpreted that there was no time for these solutions to be brought to the table so quickly and that they are, conditionally speaking, regardless of what I have always said as an immovable point, and these are elections. This public says that certain divisions in the state are being concreted, this public says, and I am telling this parliament that the functionality of the state is being denied in a certain way, that the state has become an orphan living under the alleged signs of the Sadducees, so on what someone needs to give in, take or take away. Seven – there are several ways of protecting both national and entity in the extreme if someone already wants to deal with the interests that are being applied today in many countries in the world and they are relatively effective. And to me, it's inefficient and blocking in a few steps, which would put the state in a certain step and time in a difficult situation to say in a resolution, because maybe that's a hard word. I wonder why. Whose dictatorship it is, will and will, and who by the alleged means wants it, and who doesn't want a country like this. Here are the highlighted principles, in my opinion questionable though at the beginning we heard from the opening presentation of Mr. Chairman, but I am interested in why many principles that should follow the adoption of such an important act have been bypassed. So we accept the part that is presented. Because of all of this, I declare, and because of the public constitutional change for me as an MP, as a citizen, that and immediately from these rates, but not with these solutions, so either it is necessary to continue to develop them immediately, or it is necessary to extend them a little bit, that, if anyone thinks, is to mature a better time to at least in one drink, do these famous both phases. In my view, therefore, these solutions are not enough, so as an MP, I probably won't be able to vote for it. I must finally mention, I really thank the international community and the gentlemen of the United States for trying and really bringing to a certain level of this material that is being presented today, but I don't think it's enough and that's why I'm expressing my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23409	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Žilić. Here you go. Have Mr. Lagumdžija prepare himself. After him, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23410	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the presidency, members of the Presidency, I will try to be brief, but concrete. First of all, you know the position of my SDA's club to support the amendments. I'm the only member who doesn't support the amendments right now. And I'll state the reasons why. And a year ago, it's no reason from today, be careful. And a year ago, I spoke to a member of the Presidency, Mr Tihić, who we held this morning a very correct conversation, 42 a very correct conversation that it is too early to work now with the amendment of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina because we have a much more difficult situation within Bosnia and Herzegovina than the change of the Constitution. I'll tell you we have two state police systems. We retati we have an army reform, and we don't actually have an army in relation to the neighbors they have and they kept the Vienna Convention. I'll tell you how much we talked about VAT and fought to bring in VAT and I know how much Mr. Lagumdžija waved at those 4 or 7%. And Mr. Lagumdžija at customs and excise duties, this country loses a billion marks a year because there is no limit. And there's no VAT until there's no boundaries, remember that. And it is better to vote in Parliament to introduce hot radar and because monitoring the border than who will be our president. Let him be a Serb, but let him be an honest citizen of this state, to be an honest citizen of this country. But I meant all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why did I say that? Wait a minute, please. Why did I say that? In principle, I will never raise my hand to divide this country. I come from a city where we fought together for this country if a civil state can't be made, and it can be done by the example of all these citizens very simply by European principles as it should and how they ask us why we don't do it. Why we're making some partial solutions. I ask you, regardless of the consequences, my hand cannot rise when it comes to the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is for me the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23411	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Džaferovć.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23412	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected friend of my club's Mehmede Žilić, this is a process of forming Bosnia and Herzegovina in constitutional legal terms as a normal state. This is the beginning of the process. Behind this process, it is a replica, stands America and the latest letter of the Undersecretary of Mr Brns, which you received on the bench in which it is said in the end – we will be with you in the future and commit ourselves to unconditional support in the next phase of constitutional reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We look forward to our partnership cooperation in an effort to achieve it. It stands Europe, a letter from the President of the European Commission. A much more stable country in the world needs international support from Bosnia and Herzegovina. mehmede, as vice president of the Party on behalf of the Club, I urge you to raise your hand for these constitutional changes, because this is, this will be a vote for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can't imagine what will happen if this constitutional reform falls. I went out as vice-president of the House of Representatives and as vice-president of our party and I ask you to keep these facts in mind and raise your hand for these constitutional changes. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23413	The replica of Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23414	Thank you. Dear counterpart Žilić, you may not have had a bad intention, but in the tone of which you said, so what should be a Srbin, perhaps I should have said now, or the Srpkinja woman, 43, for the sake of gender equality. You know, it's for the gendarmes. That's not the point. What you said and your way of saying it just split Mr. Žilić. I didn't want to discuss it when some colleagues were here to make percentages and say there's no way the nations could be constitutional through the election result here, because there's not enough support. I did not ask how many among the 28 MPs from the Federation there are Srbin. There's no one. I'll tell you what. That's what it And the exclusiveity of the entity vote, Mr. Žilić, and I also didn't count the votes by the peoples as constituency, just for Mr. Lagumdžija and some people who have a different attitude which he said, so she performed simple mathematics, which means a simple majority in this home. What she means and how, and we know in particular because you see this one didn't start this story a year ago, it started a long time ago and we know which way. So I ask you to apologize for the constitutionality of the people, and for the sake of the Srbin and the Srpkinja and the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23415	Thank you very much. Mr. Žilić, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23416	I'm really sorry if I did, it wasn't my intention. It was my intention because I am thinking about civil Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't care who will be the president of that civilian Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is very important to me that it be a single state to the citizens. That's my essence. And I'd ask you to take a walk around this Bosnia and Herzegovina and see what the overall situation is. It's just an example to tell you. 27 unsolved murders in Herzegovina, 131 houses raised in Herzegovina are not trying to resolve the issue. Here I am now, as an MP, asking me a question twice that I carry with me my deputy Leotar murder. We know what kind of force these forces are behind that that didn't want to be revealed. Because we don't have a single system, we don't trust each other, because we have a divided state. I was just talking for that. But when I was talking, I'd be happier if that citizen were in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't care about nationality at all. Because here's another thing to explain. I come from a city where my best friends were Serbs and Croats and fought together for that whole Bosnia and Herzegovina. No, I thank Mr. Džaferović, be careful, but my conscience does not allow me to raise hands for the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Me, no matter what the consequences. But he would be the happiest to be able as people to arrange for that state that will not be on the burden of a nation, but on the scale of all peoples. I'm sorry, really, because maybe I've been emotionally waiting a long time to say what I want to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23417	Please, we have more replicas. Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23418	Mr. Žilić, it's not a voice for the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not raise my hand to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina first, nor will any of us. The vote for these amendments is a vote for 44 chances, for the full reintegration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is what we are aiming for, and I call on you to do so and ask you to vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23419	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. The order of the replica is Gligorić, Majkić, Bešlagić, as far as I can see. Please stick to the time foreseen for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for saying two things. For the first time, you apologized, and I respect that, and I think it's correct because you yourself said broadcastly in the heat of your speech to you a little bit about the Serbs, so that even they can reach the president. I appreciate that. But you said another thing, and that's that you're in favour of civil Bosnia and Herzegovina and that you can't vote for it today. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complex community. One vote, one man, one vote, a civil state, could happen if there is no safeguard collective mechanism, could be the majorisation of centralisation and unitaryisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you are from Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have been rebelling over the former Yugoslavia because of Serbs who allegedly did majorisation because they were the most numerous. This can also be done today by Bosniak people within Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we do not have the measure to protect collective rights and civil rights, I stand for it. But we don't have that measure. Today we have one minimum agreement to make one step. And that's why you might need to consider this discussion of yours as maybe actually a division. And that's why I'd like to have an explicit insistence on practically civil state, and you didn't say how one man came to it one vote can actually come to Majorisation and we're going to go back to the way it used to be. And so, I cited the example when it comes to the former Yugoslavia not with the goal of challenging the replica, but not the reasons for who was right or wrong, but it was a fact. And it can also be applied to us today. And so I ask you to be precise in that part too, because you didn't stay defined until the end and it can be interpreted in different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23421	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mrs. Majkić for a replica, so Mr. Bešlagić. And then we're going to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23422	Your Honor, Mr. Zilliche, I was shaken by what you said. You have the right to your opinion and I can't argue with that. But you have told the truth that this part of the Serbian MPs should bear in mind. What kind of country we live in, that depends on all of us. And from the deal we can make between us. Don't let it happen, forget it for a second. And don't think that's what you decide. That's the only thing we can make a good decision about together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23423	Thank you very much, sir, for correcting Mr. Zorić's incorrect quote. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23424	Mrs. Majkić, not all of them so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23425	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23426	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, ministers, Excellency, respected colleagues, I would only like to replicate counterpart Žilić that he cannot speak his views on behalf of the city of Tuzla. The city of Tuzla is the city of Tuzla, we are here political parties. I must say that there is nothing in the proposed constitutional amendments that shares Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that strengthens the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in my opinion and therefore I as Selim Bešlagić and despite the threats I have had, if necessary and I will document them to you, but I am not afraid to vote as it is here and to plead for constitutional amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23427	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23428	I thank Mr. Chairman, I naturally want here before the plea, like all of you, to share my thoughts on capital matters that we decide on. We're a generation of people who got a chance to face the biggest decision in the country's institutions ten years after Dejton. And I am alone, as most of you have participated in the large number of public sleeps that have been and have been held in these last month. We organised over 300 public debates throughout BiH as a club. In these public debates, I personally faced and answered literally thousands of questions and saw over tens of thousands of people face to face. I belong to those people who, I'm sure everyone else who thinks about this seriously. Who are deeply unhappy with the state of this country. If we're honest with each other, we'll realize that the key word we lack is not a better constitution, but trust. Trust can't make one constitution whatever the one we have now or the one that, hopefully, we'll get tomorrow and the one that, hopefully, lives in five or ten years that will be different from today. The word trust is made the other way, and that's why we need to go from the assumption, at least I was going to change the constitution, can change without trust, sit in a tank, turn on a tank, circle the meadow and build a constitution on it. Thank Bog it's over, thanks to friends and the world in Dayton, a peace has been signed to end the killing of this country, a crime that is today being tried in The Hague. The second way and that's the first, the way it's called revolution, the revolutionary constitution. The other way is to have someone call you to some military base, like they did all the other day in Dayton and write you a constitution there, give it to you, say, "Here you are tomorrow by this and march home." Act on this constitution. That movie won't play anymore. That movie doesn't play anymore, it's over. There's no such thing, not even in Iraq. The third way is, my evolution on the inside. We ourselves don't have the strength to do it ourselves, not to lie, and that's why it's the practical help of friends from outside to help us, to put in front of us the goals, which we'll gather around, and the goal that we all have, and that's why every citizen and every nation and every nation and every few and most numerous, each one of them is great in this country, when it's exactly what the citizens of this country and its peoples are. The goal of every nation in this country is to be organized by European standards as soon as possible. That's the goal. The question arises whether by voting for this constitution today we are closer to that goal or not. I won't convince you of my position. I will only try you as any who follows and who cares what we say. What dilemma I had and how I got what we're talking about here. That is why it is necessary, Mr. Chairman, that we look into each other's eyes, to say what capital thesis is, which is on the one hand and on the other. I claim that on the side of those who are against, both those who are sincere against, and those who have led to the fact that honest, honest people think that they participate in division, but actually do the opposite. A few myths that spread across the country, while we have constitutional public debates and others have, which are against this for which I am. The first myth, incorrectly, this came suddenly saying, opponents. It didn't come out of the blue. This is more than a year's work. There are people sitting here from Mirsad Ćeman, Joza Križanović, Beriz Belkić, a year ago the project task was what was ahead of us. It wasn't a project task to abolish RS, abolish entities, not to lie. A year ago, no one wanted to go to a meeting in Neum to discuss the government's crisis, if the constitutional reform is mentioned. At that time these people sat down, Beriz led it for nine months, with the aim of creating a more functional state, creating competences that would allow us to go up to the European Union, we get the president of the state, the government normal in its capacity and reformed parliament, and this will be the state in which citizens will start putting themselves at the heart, not neglecting that we are the country of three equal nations in the entire BiH territory. So this didn't come suddenly. The second myth is incorrect. This is the legalization of genocide, etc. and RS. That was very clear at first. If someone's honest that this is legalized now, what we're 11 years old, then it would be fair for them to go to the cash register to pay back every dinar that's been charged with a conversion mark, in that illegal state, institutions, parliament, governments, commissions, etc. Then we're illegally paid. Third, this prejudges the lawsuit against Serbia-Montenegro. Never mind. Everyone smart knows it's a mild relationship. We do not agree in this House on whether or not this suit should be or should not be, but every serious one will also tell you those who think they should and those who think they shouldn't, if we're serious people that it doesn't have anything to do with it. Even those who claim an entity can be abolished, so if they're fair, then they'd say, well, they'd be abolished, less will be abolished. There's no end to any court rulings, so let's not be children. That verdict will have its course and each of us has its own opinion on it, but it's not the subject of this debate here. Fourth thing, this shouldn't work until the status quo, Kosovo status, is resolved. On the contrary, this should be done all the way before the status of Kosovo is resolved, not because Kosovo will influence that this country could be divided no, but that Kosovo's status and resolution can create illusions here that the reconstruction of this country can be made so that one part of it can be taken to another part of Europe. Kosovo's status in such Bosnia and Herzegovina, with such a Dayton Constitution, no friends, with the questionable role of the international community, can only create new illusions for someone who together will cost us 3-5 or 8 years of illusion that we can share. That's why, gentlemen, there's no division, so we don't lie to 47. These people who represent the international community here, so if they wanted me to, they wouldn't let people divide this country, because otherwise, there's no way in hell together, not just us. Next thing you know, we have no guarantees for phase two. Mr. Chairman, I personally object to you for not sharing this letter earlier both Mr. Baros and Mr. Nikolas Brns on behalf of Kondoliza Rajs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23429	Please, I haven't received a letter from Mr. Baros at all, and I've passed this on within an hour of getting it. So don't blame me until you check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23430	Then, Mr. Raguž, as a serious man, I apologize to you, because of Mr. Baros's remarks, the remark remains for the US Secretary of State, and then when Mr. Tihić returns, I will tell him in his face that he should have asked for Mr. Baros's letter, and as a proposal, he should have made sure that everyone gets the correspondence we have from the world. Because it's clearly standing here, we're just asking what your guarantees are for phase two. People who don't give us guarantees for anything. The Peace Implementation Council has been asked a question and we have received these guarantees.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23431	Our first phase is a guarantee for phase two, if you'll give me my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23432	Congratulations, Mr. Raguž, I completely agree with you, as they say using one machine called logic in science, in addition to the fact that we should go to the first stage today, if we want to go to the second stage at all, and there are no other stages without the support of the people who give it to us here in writing. Please, it's very clear here, since everyone asks those who are opponents of what your second stage guarantee is, here's a guarantee. You should also share with the press that they know what this is about and as my colleague said behind me, I don't read this, I didn't get it by the Rules of Procedure two days ago, I understand the gentleman, he's against and he doesn't read this and he didn't get it by the Rules of Procedure. The one who won't read today at least now came down from heaven a letter from the American administration from the highest level and a letter from the European Union from the highest level, because it's not according to our Rules of Procedure, please, it's very clear here what's going on. Next thing you know, Mr. Chairman, the world is united and it's suspicious. Now that we've got guarantees for phase two, it's suspicious that the world has united. That's what they're telling us now. The world has united to become a European country faster, it is against us. The world is united against us, and we are united to go into the fog and uncertainty. Next thing you know, Mr. Žilić, I'm totally understanding you as a man and we know each other from a time that everyone's reminded of. This does not divide Bosnia and Herzegovina and those who walk around saying that these parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina are wrong. Bosnia and Herzegovina divided in the '90s. and '92. and '95. She's split up. Now it's trying to come together, because 48 of us have come together, and that's to be the territories of the European Union, and otherwise, if it weren't for that, this would have been difficult for us. The next thesis, they say, should wait for the election. There were these suggestions here. Let's see, okay. We need whoever has the election, and then after the election, we'll change the Constitution. What does that mean? In every country, when the Constitution changes, then it goes to the elections. Is it someone's suggesting that we now have the election in four months, so that by the new year, we change the constitution, peacefully, democratically as we already know, and then in January next year we have the elections again, because a new constitution has come. So it's just the opposite logic. The constitution changes and goes to elections, and it doesn't say let's wait for the election and then we'll change the constitution. So we'll have four years of anti-constitutional power. Next thing you know, we're all hiding behind the people and what the people think. Despite the hack that's led into a few media outlets, which are influenced by people, who claim to be patriots to all of us, and being a patriot in this country and being a patriot in the name of only their people, and not the whole country, it means getting the patriotism of others. I understand everyone's patriotism, and let us understand each other a little bit better. Research makes it clear. A specialized UN agency has made it clear in the research you could see one out of ten people being against constitutional changes, one. Then whose name is this? Then, the next myth, which is the most dangerous here, because around it, although it's technical, an entity vote is being introduced for those who know it well, let me be corrected, if I've made a mistake. The Venice Commission was in April of last year, Mr. Chairman in Article 34 and this year in April in article 36 tells us about the entity vote. You know what people say? The entity vote acts as a surplus, and you know why and they still say why, because you certainly have a mechanism for protecting vital national interest. You know what it says there. It certainly sucks to you, because you have that brake and you have a Mongo stronger there in the House of Peoples. So this is the story of entity voting just to cloud the essence and then I ask those who have given amendments to the entity vote, and well, is then giving up these previous stories of division of the country, genocide, legalization and what I know about you. Now, when anyone takes the entity vote, they won't get anything new, because it certainly says the Venice Commission you have in the House of Peoples, then falls into the water this story. Then will you support us on principles or will you be against principles, and who will be enough entity voting? So let's be honest and serious people. I, indeed, think, no matter what, entity and every other vote, I ask questions to those who are against, whether they have a formula for the better. Do they have a better formula? And that's where I ask myself the question, I've asked it a hundred times in the last few days. Am I going to sleep here quietly tonight? Will I be clean in front of myself? If it's like this, then I'm very simple to conclude. I did everything I could, and each of us needs to do everything he can, but then let him sleep peacefully with his decision. Whoever's against it, if they can sleep peacefully, and not offer better, if he wakes us tomorrow in divided, today the country is divided, but no one will be able to complete the project, adopt this or not. It's just a question of Berize when we're gonna start uniting the country, and I'm really glad and I listened to you while you were saying this here, and that's why I was surprised when you jumped out. We can't behave. We're offered very simply here. They say people, don't take this. It's better. I ask them what's better? How to get to that better one. I claim responsibly, the interest of both Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak is that this country will be in the European Union as quickly as possible, and it will then be equal peoples and citizens in the fullest sense of that word. We today these 49 amendments are faster to that end. So whoever tells us to leave this, he tells us in fact, like one man who's thirsty in the desert, tired, on the contrary, he says, there's a friend sitting there, they bring us some water to cheer us up and say, "Let's drink some water, and there's your way to oasis, and you say no, I refuse to eat and drink, I want right in the oasis." What are we talking about? We will, well, we will, but if we let an ordinary man in this country starve, starve, until Europe and America deliver him into an oasis. I think that today we need to support ourselves a little bit, come up, listen to friends who tell us where the way is, because they need to be trusted, they brought us help and they told us where that road is and they want to go with us, and we as autists, we won't, and those who yell, don't, they don't live in Bosnia, but the reaps of Bosnia, they live out of misery and what kind of people, and don't take responsibility for the mobile phones from which white-world metropolis domestic gentlemen order -- don't take help, come here, live with people, take responsibility. I'll take responsibility. I'm fighting for this, whether it works today or not, and you gentlemen take the responsibility to fight to keep it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23433	Thank you very much. I have four replicas, first Mr. Belkić, then Sopta, then Mr. Žilić. Did you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, give up? Yes, it is. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23434	Well, I'm not going to go to that kind of replica, which is going to produce a couple hundred replicas here, etc. But there are things to be said for. So, I expected the discussion to be about the argument for. Mr. Lagumdžija deals with other people. Okay. So around this surplus, so around this surplus, we tend to have far stronger mechanisms in the House of Peoples, and it really is a surplus, but these are mechanisms of different content, of different nature. So, the mechanism in the House of Nations is a mechanism that protects the national interest, and the entity's vote in the House of Representatives is, using the protection of the interests of entities in that I spoke very precisely and clearly on behalf of some introductory remarks on behalf of the club. That's about the extra one. And here's a few times it reminds Mr. Lagudmžij I was involved. Of course I was involved in this expression where you said you jumped out, you know when I jumped out when I saw that we couldn't make a change in the queen, the philosophy of the whole concept. There. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23435	Thank you very much. Replica is, ma'am. Mrs. Sopta, then Mr. Žilić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lagumdžija said that the venecijanski neighbor said that it was an excessive way of voting entity voting in this house. The Venice Commission also said it was irrational. And it's important here to point out that he's also national. It's not just about protecting the interests of entities, it's about protecting the interests of individual peoples. Unfortunately, there are only two peoples who have that exclusivity. And it is not true that the protection of vital interest is stronger in the House of Peoples than in the House of Representatives, because what is stopped in the House of Representatives 50 does not go to the Constitutional Court, and what is stopped in the House of Peoples goes to the Constitutional Court and we have had the opportunity and experience that laws which, for which no representative of the order of a nation has raised or one in this House, not one in the House of Nations, no constitutional judge of that people is worth it, and they are like these imposed upon that people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23437	Thank you very much. Next is the order of replicas. So Mr. Žilić, then Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Sead Avdić. And for the debate, let Dr. Wess prepare himself. Kunić, after him Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23438	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion, especially when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's concern. But I would only like two answers to the question, what does it mean by Republika Srpska and what it means by the Federation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What does that mean? I'd like that to be explained to me once. When he says how to move on. I suggest very simply further. Let's do a proper police reform. Let's do a military reform to get into the NATO Pact. Let's do a real VAT reform. And here's the constitution itself. And yet, gentlemen, I apologize, I am truly emotionally, without any, according to any people, I felt that these citizens should really choose the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who will best represent this country. In that sense, I may have taken off emotionally to make you realize that I would not be misunderstood. And these are very simple solutions. In Brussels when we were doing a police reform, watch out, the 22 experts I was involved in were in. Only Matijašević, one, stopped a complete concept. And that concept, there's a complete one standing now can't go any further. I don't believe it as long as there's a Republika Srpska and the Federation, it's two states in the state. Believe me, that's the way it is. Give me an answer, because I'm not a constitutional expert, I don't know when you explain it to me it'll be easier for me maybe, maybe I'll understand some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23439	Mr. Martina, I'll get back to you, I'll answer your lines, but when everyone's out on me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23440	I think that's fair. And you'll all get your word. Wait a minute, so now it's Mrs. Hadžiahmetović's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23441	I thank the chairman, I have no intention of replicating the arguments made here as counter arguments of some called myths. I just want to believe that fellow Lagumdžija is a great desire that this, as soon and as quickly as possible and as simple as possible, has been brought about by change, by constitutional changes in one direction, to create better Bosnia and Herzegovina, that that emotion led him to these findings that we had just before to hear. I just want to, I have a need as a member of the BiH Party here to decide to mention that the Party for BiH has treated amendments 51 procedurally, that we have referred the procedure to the amendments that we consider crucial to this whole package in terms of a step forward. We appreciate that our amendment creates one assumption that this is really a step forward. And we went to meet a solution. And I really don't see any reason to mention any myths here and giving up some thesis and big words etc. and I ask that, according to the BiH Party's position, you treat yourself procedurally.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23442	Thank you very much. Replica further Mr. Avdić, then Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23443	There's nothing Mr. Chairman, the inspired exposure of Dr. Lagumci always causes contradictions. It wasn't a debate on constitutional adjectives, I'm correcting Mr. Lagumdžija. It was a pre-election campaign very radically carried out in October 2006. That's for sure. So there were no talks on constitutional amendments and it was a deal with its conditional political opponents and I don't know the skis either. Secondly, the Venice Commission said on 11 March 2005 about the entity vote. I only ask the members who have negotiated, as the leaders of political parties have said, why they did not respect it if they already have the mission mentioned and the objective of Europeanisation and Brusselsisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why didn't they respect that? Why they did not put an entity vote on the agenda, which according to the most binding legal Europe institute says it should not and that it is contrary to the mission and the 9th choice of citizens' homes called the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Under three. When a patient is treated simply first try to save the simplest and most difficult operations to perform, then cosmetic changes and plastic surgery. So we can play differently with these words and examples that Dr. Lagumdžija's trying to cloud the real state of things. When asked on television to finish, when they asked on television why entity voting, believe it or not, Mr Tihić and Mr Lagumdžija respond like this – because there is, I apologize to my friends and gentlemen why – because they have the fear of RS MPs from the majorisation of the Bosniak people at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Believe it or not. This is the only answer offered by Mr Tihić and Lagumdžija. I'm now asking my friends and friends whether there was fear of fear, whether there was majorisation in this home, whether there was revote, overvote of people. It's not true it was. So it's absolutely a lie that they're simply trying to get on TV and send off the screen to ordinary people. So that didn't work out, Mr. Lagumdžija, I think Mrs. Novaković and the others agree with this assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23444	Thank you very much, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is it, I think, Mr Avdić is always this man of inspiration, so now what Mr Žilić said and what Mr Avdić added. We've received reports from the Venice Commission and I'm counting on the translation of all the reports that dealt with Bosnia and Herzegovina and are available via Internet 52 that is a correct translation. We have a problem with everyone reading the attitude that suits him and interpreting him that way. We also have the position of one that skips the Venice Commission on complexity and the complexity of one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which you have more degrees in decision-making and decision-making. I'm not gonna name him so I don't share Bosnia and Herzegovina on some stitches that match someone, they don't answer. I'd like a little bit about us and our fears and our pressures. I was in a joke when my colleagues said that there would be pressure now that some NGO should insert from both entrances that pressure meter for free so let's see, but we all look like this today. It doesn't look like anyone's on the verge of hitting someone, God forbid. What do I mean? Gentlemen, the respect and letters we received from different addresses I respect and appreciate them, but let's talk about self-respect. In order for others to respect us, we must respect ourselves first, and as much as we appreciate ourselves, so we will be appreciated by those who come from the side. I'm counting on respect from people sitting on the left and on the right if I don't have it to myself when I look at myself first in the mirror from my surroundings, from people I work with and live with, etc. So first let's respect ourselves and for the first time in more time we have something that's agreed on where there's a minimum of something, the essence of something that's possible to open a door that's called the road and how to go on. This is for me to open the door to tomorrow. Where we stopped and if we're gonna slam that door right now, we're gonna close. To me today, this story looks like the story of starting a pre-election campaign that we went to as a throat in strawberries. So I ask all of you to respect yourselves more and to respect the decisions of this home and in speech and in all things, and let the Serbs call on that story, so that we honor ourselves in this story, to take another look at the moment. And, Mr. Žilić, you mentioned one man and blocked everything. You mentioned Mr Matijašević. Well, at this point, you're that man, twenty-eight, who needs something to talk about for a year to stop. Are you able to take that responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23446	Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Here you go. And I hope you can connect the replica to the debate. It was an correction to the wrong quote, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23447	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23448	Okay. You want to connect the replica and debate Dr. I Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23449	I can do a good replica of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23450	Well, then let's make it possible for others. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23451	Thank you, Chairman. There was one question here which is a fundamental question that we in Parliament never open, and it is very important. It is a question of Mr. Žilić – what is Republika Srpska and what is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? They are components of Bosnia and Herzegovina, components. They are the Federal Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're the level of power, Mr. Žilić. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a federal state. You're not gonna say it isn't. A hundred round tables were held where it was established. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a highly decentralised state. And it can only stay that way. Just a decentralised state. Just a decentralised state. Why an entity vote, to try and answer Mr. Avdić? So you see Mr. Avdć says there was no majorization. Well, there was no majorization because of the entity vote, Mr. Avdić. Well, there's no sitting so there wouldn't be majorization, if it wasn't for that exact mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23452	Thank you very much. Zorić and Lagumdžija. Did you ask for it? It's a debate. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23453	I answered to replicate Mr. Lagumdžija, but I would ask all my colleagues, and that's what I asked you last time as a College to protect our agents. Last time, Mr. Terzić announced that some MP would vote on constitutional changes, which is inappropriate. It's also inappropriate to call someone twenty eight and someone first. So there's no talking about it, I don't let myself be first, second, 15th, or 20th, or 20th. So that's ugly. Let's not use that dictionary here and put it on someone else's 20th, and someone's fifth, someone's in the middle. What I'm trying to say here is that Mr. Lagumdžija spoke in illustrations, so I didn't like his oasis and water. Let's just say I personally wouldn't take the water and the food and the road to the oasis that he's showing me. I'd rather at my risk go towards oasis. Because what if he poisoned my food and water, then I certainly won't see an oasis. And I would say that from Dejton Vašington, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a appendix. And now they say so listen to you so far. And what these six negotiators did to make the Croats better. They brought them to the hospital, but there's no surgery. And they convince them it's better. That's just what they brought in. One step is taken, but there's no movement. There won't be any surgery. Nothing's gonna get better. But people realize it's the first step, and the second one's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23454	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, answer to the replicas. Mr. Lagumdžija, can you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23455	I will not correct my colleague Zorić, but since I have failed to get my word, I want to correct my colleague Kunić. It is not true that there was no majorisation here, we are also witnessing the adoption of the Law on the Public TV System and a series of other laws, it just seems to me that when the Croatian people are revoted and the Croatian representatives leave such halls and sessions, then it is not considered a majorisation. Only God forbid it was true that there was no revote of the Serb people, or Bosniak, but Croatian did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23456	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrić. The word's got to be dr. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23457	It's perfectly natural, Mr. President, that I'm not going to spend three times nine minutes on a replica as much as perhaps the Rules of Procedure might give and I don't have a clue that I'm answering all of this. First, let me just say to my colleague, Belkić, that I've actually spoken mostly against the argumentation of those who attack. And he's right, man. But I've been knowingly saying that because I want those who object to this to explain to them that they're wrong, because I think there's been enough arguments for the opening statement to go on. So I really didn't take this as an invitation to leave now so I could say why I'm in. I only considered it because in public it is much more manipulated with and deals with us who are for amendments through an argument that absolutely does not stand and gives people where they are still going towards a little more emotionally flat than it is normal. Why Beriz jumped out he knows it better than I do and I have no intention of commenting on it. As for Mrs. Sopta, I have to say, Ružo, yes, I'm glad that you've replicated me and I thank you very much because from your replica, I could get the impression that I've led to someone who advocates entity voting. Bog forbid. I'm against it, too. I find that completely pointless. I'm just saying it's one of the arguments of those who advocate that they're ready to spill all this. As an entity vote has not been abolished, I believe it is not a rational argument because there is a much more serious mechanism than a famous entity vote. As for you, Mr. Žilić, I have no intention of answering what the Federation is and what's Republika Srpska, it's another man left of those six signatories and the creators are three in The Hague, two are underground and one is alive, he needs to be asked why he did it in Dayton, but he's not here and I hope he's watching us so you'll find a reason to call you and tell you why he is. Otherwise, I think the Republika Srpska and the Federation are not symbols. Because I see they're changing. Here's exactly the kind of steps that change symbols. And they will become little by little symbols of all the citizens and all the peoples of this country. And the Republic and the Federation are, in my opinion, what is their content, and that content is important to this change, and I think that the content is most changing by strengthening the European statehood of this country. I would also ask you, Mr. Žilić, to realize, however, that here I am not going to mention myself, but also Šefik Džaferović and Selim Bešlagić, I quote two people you know very well, certainly not people who push you to do something about the fears you now have. And to be exact, I agree with all arguments, police, NATO, VAT. I responsibly argue that police reform has nothing without adequate assistance from the EU. I responsibly claim that there is nothing from NATO so quickly without proper assistance from the United States. I responsibly argue that there are no 55 tax systems without these constitutional reforms that speak of the shared jurisdiction of the tax which is now practically different according to Dejton. And believe me, you still have to understand that at least we who are, who we address, are only talking to you from a position to realize that we were never the opposition of the state. I was an opposition to you when it comes to VAT, but this isn't what we're talking about. I just don't want to get into suspense. As for my colleague Azra, who called me to reason, intellectuals need only use reason as an argument. The bums have no intention of just using their emotions as an argument. Especially in politics. Just. I just said. Seriously, people use both reason and emotion to be ready to come out before their family tomorrow, in front of themselves, and in front of people who think they represent them. I'm trying to use each other, and I apologize, if I wasn't an intellectual, so I used a little emotion. But I thought those who attacked us used only emotions. Show them we're not human beings who aren't flesh and blood. I agree with my colleague Avdić about the Venice Commission and this letter that you are in fact in the ultimate consensus that you are most responsible for this letter on the table, and you know very well what you have done and I do not even agree with everything, and in a lot of things, I don't think it's a good thing that you did what you did, and I hope that you will take a step to the end to realize it in the way that you wanted it to be done. Otherwise, ljiljo have to admit to you that I don't do this and when I used these letters to Ljiljo, my dear colleagues from the Finance and Budget Committee, who won't let me make the VAT zero for bread and medicine. Let me just tell you these letters I used here. I didn't use them to make them my argument. I'm just using them to say that those who have an argument against these letters are wrong. My argument is Martine what I talked to thousands of people literally. And these letters are just an argument to those who are against nothing. And Mr. Zorić expected everything from you, but that in that metaphor of yours, you're a mathematician that metaphors don't go well, because if you were a little bit as poetic as some other people around here you'd realize that you actually said that my next metaphor of the EU and the United States is giving us poison, poisoned water, sir. I'm very clear. I think if the EU and America want to poison us, I'm afraid we don't have a cure for it. So I'm still seeing this as something that's good, because without that help, we're certainly done.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23458	Please, just a little patience. So I want to inform here all MPs who are a little nervous about the next order of application for discussion that everyone knows when they're registered. So Mr. Kunić is first now, so Mr. Duraković, then Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Džaferović, then Raguž, then Križanović, then Majkić, then Đurković, then Ćeman, then Sopta, and Mrs. Senija Kapetanović, Mr. Filip Andrić. And here we see how many more we have reported and give some of these to the replicas, the interventions. I think we've all explained enough to each other metaphorically and certainly, but if you insist, you'll get it. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr Zorić, and Mrs Hadžiahemtović. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23459	I did not mention any representatives of the United States or of the EU. I said I'd suspect this, and I absolutely doubt what these six guys are offering me, and I'd go to my own risk for oasis. The fact that you Lagumdžija thinks you can think what I thought, forget it. That's what you can tell Selim and Joza, but you can't tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23460	Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23461	First here, among other things, it was said that the Party for BiH wants the status quo and I am glad that my colleague Lagumdžija mentioned that he Belkić and actively participated for 8 months in the beginning of the complete story, which, of course, has denied him himself, so I do not deny him. But secondly, I'm surprised Mr. Lagumdžija doesn't know who the three signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement are and neither of them are alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23462	Thank you. Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Lagumdžija. Please. Well, so was Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23463	It's not my replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23464	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23465	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, I rarely replicate to anyone. But this isn't a replica, it's a poslovnički intervention, Mr. Chairman. I think that, by respecting the seriousness of the topic today, you really are reducing these replicas to the least possible measures.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23466	Roger that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23467	This is actually not a replica, this is one primitive insult and primitive remark that has nothing to do with today's debate. Not to mention who they came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23468	Replica Mr. Zorić. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23469	I respect the years, but I think we're the same here by the statute. I am a representative like Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Jozo Križanović. To call someone a receiver deserves at least a reminder from the chairman. I just said I couldn't do it, that I couldn't be told what I was thinking. I know exactly what I was thinking, and if we're going to look at the stenogram in the end, then I said I wouldn't accept Mr. Lagumdžija's food and water. I didn't even go. I only mentioned six in my first presentation once. And to say here that I was thinking about America even though I had something against American politics, I wouldn't be making out and licking but I'd say it here-if I did. But I don't. No one spoke to me from either the EU or the US administration, Mr. Živković. So don't call someone a receiver here, because that's very primitive.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23471	Mr. Chairman, I didn't say he was a receiver, but he has primitive replicas, primitive remarks that have nothing to do with the subject. That's what I said. And who's in it I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23472	But I think all together we can accept to avoid rhetoric that devalues someone in one way or another in a negative sense, rather than offer a correction of the quote and arguments of the project counter. And nothing more. Mr. Lagumdžija. And help us in the College to keep this going.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23473	Mr. Chairman, I want to help you. My replica to Mr Zorić and counterpart Hadžiahmetović will remain unspoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23474	Thank you very much. This is a concrete contribution. We're going to a debate. Mr. Kunić. Let him prepare, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23475	Thank you, Chairman, I've already spoken, and there are some things I want to say. We certainly entered with different ambitions into constitutional change. They have maximum goals, they have reasonable goals, they have irrational goals. Therefore, it is certain that not everyone got what they expected, and the end result is that which we have based on long talks, negotiations and of course achieving some agreement. 58 I would like to say a few things here in this House. And that's next. That it is not possible to impose solutions within Parliament on those who do not accept it. So the agreement must remain the basic method of working for Parliament and other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the only mechanism for progress and progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There have been different qualifications here to share Bosnia and Herzegovina with these constitutional changes, etc. I must say, these are people who don't understand the nature and character of a state's arrangement. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a single state, but a federal state. I said a little while ago in the radius, and that's the constant that's just going to stay in these spaces. And when we agree on these things, we'll have a completely different conversation. We will reach far more consensus on many issues. I think there are different ideas here, and those ideas are far enough away for now. To talk about how the debate was held, the initiative for talks, etc. I was one of the opponents of the constitutional change. I'll do it here again. Why? Because I was just expecting this, this scenario I predicted would happen. However, looking at the aspect of the results we have received, so after the amendments of my and Mr Gligorić are accepted, we will accept these constitutional amendments. So I want to say that we will accept these constitutional amendments after, of course, intervention, I would not say that they were interventions of technical character. These were the essence of the intervention of essential character. And without that, I would never accept these constitutional amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23476	Thank you very much. Mr. Duraković. Here you go. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23477	Before I move on to this exhibit of mine, it's not a replica, it's an explanation. Mr. Kunić, you repeat twice that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Federal State. But it's not. Under the Constitution, it's not the federal state, it's the democratic state. That's how it stands in the Constitution. That's not what it says. It is only a democratic state that then consists of two entities of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23478	Please, Mr. Kunić, you'll get your word if you ask. Here's to listening to Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23479	This, of course, went to some personal discussion, and it seems that many here are denied the simple right to their own opinion and their own political attitude. Here we have the amendments offered, and my God, they're on the agenda. It's about principles and then amendments. So let each of you make your argument. ...and that we don't see any bad things in it and that we don't share who the patriot is, who's not a patriot, who's a traitor, who's not, etc. I don't think that makes any sense. Then this parliamentary office loses its primary purpose, and democracy doesn't make any sense at all. I would start with what is irrefutable and according to the findings of all relevant and international and domestic political factors and all agree with the US Senate resolution through the EU's highest bodies to the Venice Commission, etc. that the existing Constitution and constitutional solutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the constitution is said to be first not 59 democratic, secondly that it is dysfunctional and third to reverberate, that in many of its segments it is falling off European constitutional standards. And we all agree here. I mean, at least that's why it's headed for this constitutional reform. What I have said on many occasions is not just for me to find valid political reasons why this debate is being conducted so hasty. Why is she timed before the election? In our court, it's very bad for a number of reasons. First that many things are cheaply politicised, third that the debate itself is used in a pre-election campaign, third that it is nationalised and leads to high and emotional and national charges, so in any case it is instrumentalised for purposes that do not contribute to true constitutional reform. But good. It's on the agenda, and now we've got nothing left to wrinkle about. After all, and this debate that Ćeman was saying there was no debate, there were 300 people gathered from the hills of the valley in a large hall of parliament and it was more of a farce than a debate. What a debate where in one day you want to absorb such a large and large matter. But some say so we discussed, this group etc. Not for a year, but it's a debate in a tight circle. At the end of the day, the question is again and again, who is it for constitutional change, and who is against it. We who have reservations with the original amendments are not against constitutional changes, and I repeat it 100 times. On the contrary, we are consensual. But not in this way and not with such proposed solutions. We're actually for a more radical change that would really mean change, and it wouldn't actually mean one not only cosmetics, but even in some things it's very easy to argue it's also a hindrance to existing solutions. So, why would I put it on the Constitutional Commission and on a series of public debates like this without a wider elaborate, why we are against the proposed amendments. The amendments are the result of a political agreement that I, of course, appreciate, which has been achieved with the help of friends from abroad, etc. However, it is only a political agreement of six political parties, which I think is not allowed for such large issues and should be ensured that all relevant Bosnia and Herzegovina's political factors are involved in this debate and in the creation of these solutions, and then science and profession are included, and then the debate is organised throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and what they say from the local community to the Academy of Sciences, and then perhaps we could come up with a better solution. E, the credentials of the point of view say lawyers, indeed theorists, excellent law theorists, both outside and domestic, say that many of these proposed amendments were first unstructured. In some segments, they do look dilettant. Somewhere even essayist written, which is inadmissible for legal technology. There's a lot of repetitive and inconclusiveness, and even unconsistency. Malta doesn't, some things contradict each other in certain sentences. Third, the proposed solutions say they mean improvements. I could say the opposite of what Lagumdžija said. I'd really like to know the same where those improvements are. First we agreed, many, so here's Lagumdžija that the entity's way of voting in the lower home is not good for many reasons. It is not good because it is too high, because there is a way to protect the Naiconal interests both in the upper home and in the Council of Ministers, as well as in the very way of electing and functioning the presidents with their vice presidents. 60 Second, it is not good because there is still the possibility that a nation will be deprived of fundamental rights and be overvoted. I mean, specifically wrestling. Because by simple calculation if the unit, one vote to say conditionally whether it is Republika Srpska, the second vote is the Federation. Now, here in the Federation, that voice is divided in half, and then often wrestling as a minority people can objectively be seen and denied, etc. I don't say it happens often, but there's one species, one block of the system. Furthermore, what may be the greatest weakness of these proposed solutions is that we no longer have any malts, no, we almost threw out a citizen's voter. He only asks himself in the election of the House of Representatives or the House of Representatives. And where are more citizens? Nowhere. The House of Representatives elects the upper home, the House of Nations. From the House of Peoples, the President of the State is elected. The president of the country is the prime minister or president of the Council of Ministers. So it's all coming out of Parliament itself. Citizens, from the point of view of human civil rights and freedom, these solutions are simply not good. Not to go into any other possibility of blocking myself, the possibility that, in fact, four people from the House of Nations should choose a president, and then, after that, everything goes into one kind of blockade of the system itself. How do you block it? So if you don't make a decision at the Council of Ministers, then you go to the second round of voting. If we don't have a decision then it's going to the third round. After that, Parliament is disbanded and new elections are under way. Is that how the solutions are proposed? They did. Now, theoretically speaking, I'm not saying it's going to happen, but theoretically, there's a possibility of a long-term blockade of the entire system. Then some... are called to the Constitutional Court. Ha, the Constitutional Court reacts in the case of House of Narra decisions, and what about the blockade of the Council of Government, the Council of Ministers? There are many, many not built-in mechanisms, so protection and, in addition, Tihić says in the opening statement, that these solutions are cheaper and more functional. They're neither more functional, as we can see, and especially not cheaper. Here are 42 MPs, we're going to 87. The number in the House of Naorda is also increasing, etc. Eh, about the famous first and second phases, if you were also on the view that we should be highly esteemed, for us friendly states, and especially for the head of the United States, and for EU assistance, and only one man or a man who does not wish well for his country could be at the opposite point of view. But what we're offering as encouragement in these letters, and what we've got today, it's still all onion and water. Hold on, it's a good thing you're standing by, we're behind you, we're behind this phase going to phase two, but did anyone say so far, what does that second phase mean? Yes, but in the opposite sense. Yesterday, this deputy Nikolasa Bansa, said there was no talk about the abolition of Republika Srpska or the abolition of entities, that a debate on the reconstruction of the Federation could possibly be opened, etc., as the Venice Commission said. Eh, therefore, there is no saying that this second phase would raise some radical issues that would lead to BiH's reintegration, as one democratic, legal, European, European-oriented countries etc. etc. Eh, now, what is most important, and what is my personal biggest regret is that in many segments in the proposed solutions, the most drastic violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms is being violated. This can be seen for example, and for the very way of electing the president, because the citizens are thus approved again. It can also be seen in the House of Narcas and its powers and can be seen in the functioning of the Council of Ministers, which nevertheless introduces an ethnic principle, the principle of decision-making, etc. Now, if I didn't owe it first, here and these days not threatening, it's just a matter of responsibility. Those against the proposed changes will be responsible. That's also said in today's opening statement. This is also repeated in the presentations of individual colleagues. Okay, we'll all be responsible in any case. And what will those who are for 61 of these amendments be responsible for? So I think they will be more responsible both in court and perhaps in history, if these proposed amendments are adopted in this proposed form. Then what is the international community responsible for, say? Who, for example, is responsible for 11 years after Dejton, not being brought to justice, the main criminals? Who's responsible for not realizing Annex VII? Who is, and what is the majority of refugees, expelled, exiled, especially in RS has not returned? Who is responsible for continuing ethnic cleansing for more than a decade? And who is also responsible for spending, let's say billions of dollars in international aid for some hungover, highly bureaucratic organization and organizations called the OHR, and the OSC and before Umprofor, then Esfor, Aifor and AIPTF, etc. to hundreds and thousands of NGOs, humanitarian and quasi-humanitarian and so forth? Does anyone have any responsibility? And then it's said, the international community is already tired of BiH. I believe it is, with the need to add that BiH is also tired of the international community, because it is also in many ways cheated and blackmailed and humiliated and forever on the bait of some false promises, carrot and stick policies. Take it or leave it. But the international community can't say that she's tired of us, because we're her child. She's a co-signator of those solutions. The Paris Treaty was signed by the United States and other European great forces plus the Republic of Croatia, Yugoslavia and BiH. Well, he can't say now that you've made one nakarad solution, now we're giving up. There are representatives of our friendly countries, and it's good that they're here. But let's just say, I would really ask them, why, without a reservation, do they support solutions that directly violate the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms in many segments? Well, the European Convention signed by BiH is older than this Dayton Constitution. And why support those solutions that would not apply in their own countries in their sleep? I don't know, that's what's left for them to think. So, all in all, what I've said is he's saying enough for me not to support the principles, especially these proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23480	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. So Mr. Živković first answered, so Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Jovanović. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23481	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I expected us to stick to the college agreement that one club talks for 10 minutes, that the rest of us could talk for five minutes. Apparently, people bring emotions and let me say they forget what they're saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23482	Up to 10 minutes we said, up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23483	And I'd say here's a replica regarding the three points Mr. Duraković said. The first is that no public debate has been held here in Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would invite Mr. Duraković to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is not respected? If we're going to talk to 62 arguments, then we need to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is not respected. I guarantee that the public debate is and that the constitutional changes that are here today in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in line with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if Mr. Duraković meant the public debate he held, Mr. Belkić and the rest of 22 March 2006 in Sarajevo, where they say at 7th point – if BiH's MPs would open up the possibility of legal state resolution by accepting the amendment, etc. should return to the Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in '92. the year is demanding that the institutions of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina be reactivated which have been established under the Constitution, etc. etc. What's that? Well, that's calling for a coup and a war. I am now asking if this is the way we should have discussed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You said an entity vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Duraković, you were the high-ranking official and activist of the Communist Union before the war, and I'm wondering if you've advocated a vote by the republic or citizens in that Yugoslavia, so here's what you've advocated. And you said you were up for a radical change here. I can only say that you made a radical political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23484	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23485	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I wouldn't be replicating myself if my colleague Duraković hadn't called me for my presentation in his debate. I agree with him that the US Senate, the EU and the Venice Commission have said that, that our constitution is not democratically functioning and that it is falling short of European standards and what we are doing today is the first step towards changing that. However, I wouldn't talk about a public debate, just to remind you of Mr. Chairman, you know very well when you two gave one initiative two years ago as the other club then compared to where you are today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23486	Same club with the same attitudes and then and now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23487	Okay. No, you were at another club compared to this one now. Yeah, that's what I mean. You used the same right. In September 2004 The SDP has put 16 amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a series of public debates has been organised throughout BiH. Some NGOs also organised a series of public debates on various constitutional initiatives. So this isn't something you've been dealing with since yesterday. I said myself that in the last month, at least we've been participating over 300 public gatherings and not that. However, since there was a direct question here about improving me, where are the improvements. I really have no intention of defending entity voting. I already said it was extra. But in the House of Peoples, entity voting and three brakes were abolished, which included that brake that came from the election of the People's House that was now there. 63 Also, since it is said here that everything is being implemented from Parliament and that is the problem, I would like to remind you that both in Germany and Italy and in many to a number of European countries also perform everything from these parliaments and exactly the fact that after three times the election of the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, Parliament is only being dissolved. [[or new-ununderstanding]] You can't make a decision but you're just breaking up by the Constitution is a deblocking mechanism and that's why it's built in. That this letter is here that we have received that we will be with you in the future to commit ourselves to unconditional support in the next phase of constitutional reform in BiH in partnership co-operation in order to achieve this to get support from the US administration's summit that European, European Commission President says the European Commission will continue to support the reform of the Constitution and provide guidance and help this project in the future is not an onion and water. It's the best we've got. I'm tired of the international community, too, but the question is, what if the international community as they announce goes to spring from here and leaves us with the Constitution as we now have. And finally, a material mistake. The European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Chairman, and that's what I want to say to my colleague Duraković, the blue bookbook from March last year, here Bariz looks carefully at everything I say, and even here the climate of my head, at least that this blue book, is fine with what's in the existing Constitution contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. Everything that stands here, everything has changed. The discriminatory formation of the House of Peoples, the discriminatory formation of the Presidency, it was formed, modified by these amendments, and then the opinion of the Venice Commission 10 days ago. There is no word here that anything is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. It is neither me nor Mr Duraković who will be the judge in whether something has been accepted and changed from the point of view of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. It's the Venice Commission, and it's very clear that when it comes to the fact that we've done our homework. And finally, indeed at the very end, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Duraković says we'll all be responsible. I now want to tell him and everyone here – we will not all be responsible! If constitutional amendments pass, we who are responsible for this. We are responsible, that you who are against you are not as responsible as we are, but allow that if this doesn't go away, you who are against it should take responsibility and don't share my responsibility. I'm willing to take responsibility to make it better in this country tomorrow, and you take responsibility for staying in this country tomorrow as it is now, like the last 10 years. And let's not hide behind a shared responsibility. There's no shared responsibility here. And here and for that is what's happened so far, that's how it's supposed to be looked at. There's no reason. There's no problem. I repeat here publicly for a note, for the public, for tomorrow someone will read this. I'm willing to take responsibility to move forward and anyone who's willing to assume he's willing to bear that responsibility. And you who are against and this is not a threat, this is it. She's not dear Berize. And what would I do if I were to be responsible for you because you're against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23488	Time, Zlatko. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23489	But here is a very clear question of responsibility and you won't be able to escape from responsibility either me or you. I'm not responsible if this fails. You did. And you're not responsible if this goes away. I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23490	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Jovanović's replica, then Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to a part of the speech of Prof. Duraković when he spoke
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23492	Please be patient and we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23493	when he spoke of returning and tied it to Republika Srpska. I would like to say for reasons of correctness that more than 100,000 Serbs have not returned to Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this cannot be a worse message from the capital on its way to Europe. We neither formed the Commission, or realised the decision of this home to form a commission and establish a crime against Serbs in the Sarajevo capital. And third -- implementation of property laws in Republika Srpska is higher than in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Officials are OEPS or OSCE's, how pleased you are. This is what I had to do to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23494	Two replicas to this exhibit. We can get Mr. Jovanović to you sooner. Okay. Mr. Belkić, then Mrs. Kapetanović, then Mr. Jovanović. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23495	So, Mr. Gligorić, here you are about to go into the essence of who expelled whom, etc. democracy, human rights. On today, on today, JNA turned the repeater on Trebevic above this city towards Belgrade. Both me and my fellow citizens have eliminated 400,000 of us from our own television. For your reminder. For your reminder. You say there are no 100,000 Serbs in Sarajevo. I fully agree that every citizen who isn't in Sarajevo that it's a great shame for this country. But there are citizens and different ways that people from Sarajevo have gone. Don't let me remind you of the policy that was led by Karadžić and Krajišnik back in '95. and searched, invited to wear both signposts and titles of the place etc. from Sarajevo. Let me remind you. But, about Republika Srpska, about people who lived in Republika Srpska not to speak, Mr Gligorić, I guess you know how many people have returned to Posavina, Podrinje, Banja Luka, etc. and, of course, the Federation. Don't open that. We'll be back in '92. 65 years and open up the story of aggression, genocide, The Hag, we'll discuss all the other things all day. There's no problem, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23496	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to make a deal on the next mode of work. I have a suggestion here from the members of the presidency and the chairman, they'll be holding a session in an hour. I suggest we work for another half hour and 40 minutes, so that they hold a session at the stop so that the motionary has insight into the course of the debate. I think that's correct and that's how we behave. It's a college decision. Now, please, next order. Senija Kapetanović, then Mr Jovanović replica. You'll all get it. Is anyone missing a replica? So please, you'll all get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23497	I'll just take a minute. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23498	Please, I'm asking for your attention really.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23499	I thank you for your permission, and I have after my discussion. I only use this replica briefly, because I can't miss it because I come from Republika Srpska, and I'm back there. And I live very well there, and today I was able to replicate many. Because I live there, I know exactly how I'm experiencing this situation and what's going on there. I just want to say this about coming back and who's where he missed it. In Republika Srpska, what has returned to people may be a larger number than in the Federation. But it's not the merit of the conditions that are in the Republic of Srskko, it's the merit of the people who wanted to go there under any conditions. Here I come from Prijedor and the first returnees came to the ice and not asking, because it was the dejtonski Agreement and the Peace Treaty that allowed them to do so until '99. A year. Otherwise, it was not for the consent of the organs, but for the people, they put up tents and began building their houses. So they came back for what they wanted. However, it is the other way around for that part of the population, I really regret that I do not have to use those terms of Bosniak, Serb, like this, such as that, and national, but those who came to Republika Srpska from the Federation were all retained there by all means and by their policy they were detained there and helped with the reconstruction of houses, what was destroyed is such a guided policy. Of the 20 million or how many already the Republika Srpska budget is always part of those who will remain the right houses, not for those who want to return to the Federation. So it wasn't done in what politics is trying to say it is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23500	Thank you very much. Please stick to the time. So Mr. Jovanović. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23501	Well, I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Replication to what Mr. Duraković said, most of it has already been said by Mr. Lagumdžija. In fact, Mr Duraković said that these constitutional changes violate the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms right in the section relating to the election of members of the Presidency and the House of Peoples, and the Venice Commission said the opposite and I think the basic reason seems to me to be the launch of an initiative on constitutional change. It means that a delegate in the House of Peoples from to say Republika Srpska from could not have been a Serb from the Federation, and in the order of the Bosniak and Croatian people, there could not have been a Bosniak or Croat from Republika Srpska, and there is progress made as far as these constitutional changes are concerned. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23502	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr. Belkić and Mr. Duraković,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23504	What about me again?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23505	One moment, so we'd like to get into communication. It's not bad, it's not bad. Not because of Mr. Belkić. Look, I didn't cause this replica. Mr. Duraković spoke, produced a situation, and then you blame me for answering something in terms of his discussion. Don't replace the thesis. Because what you're saying, look out, there's always bad and good guys here. Srbin are bad guys. We're all bad guys. When we start from that assumption, when we face our past, but it's a process, Mr. Belkić. Please keep that in mind. What Mrs. Kapetanović said, I have to say about coming back one more time. Srbin do not return to the Federation because it is bad there. And they return to Republika Srpska because it's better there. Because I'm coming back talking about it enough. Please keep that in mind. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23506	Let's discuss it. Mr. Duraković, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23507	Well, here's the deal, Mr. Živković says that I said that, in doubt, that the debate was held in accordance, that it was not held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I didn't mention the Rules of Procedure at all, but I said that from the hills, the valley was organized, so 300-400 people were gathered in one room and there were no elementary conditions for a serious debate. So much for him. 67 It further sets me up to be in favour of the return and the Constitution of the Republic of BiH is it, which I have not spoken of, nor are we today discussing amendments to this so-called Dayton Constitution, and no, I don't know how it got him that way? And then he asks how we voted in the former communist system? So we voted in accordance with the Constitution and then the Electoral Law. I don't even know how he got a comparison of a single-party system and a political socialist system with this multiparty system, etc., which, I don't know how he got that comparison? As far as Lagumdžija is concerned, this is that I'm looking for a shared responsibility. It's not on my mind. I don't know, you got me wrong. You'll be responsible for your attitudes and your behavior, I'll be responsible for mine and I won't share them with you at all. Well, I'm just glad you got into this green, black, red coalition and... save BiH, Bog help you. Oh, my Bog. Oh, Gligorić, about to return. I said, it's a general finding, that returning to RS is weaker than the Federation. For a moment, I mean not only Bosniaks, only 5% of Hrvat returned to RS from the number that was. So, please nicely, then, that return is disabled in various ways, and compare Sarajevo with that,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23508	Please for,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23509	... under the grenades of the team, year after year, in that hell, whoever could have escaped from that hell, not only Srbin, but also Hrvat and Bošnjak and all the rest and Jevrej all to one, there was not 30 left. So it really doesn't work out. I mean, I'm sorry they left, but I remember the TV show very well, the Krajišnik on TV and on the radio and on the occasion said that the Serbian traitor who stayed in the part that was subsequently re-integrated from the Grbavica of arms to the Ilidja, etc. People even carried their dead with them in sad columns were coming out by order of the largest one, the most senior leadership of the RS or SDS. So consider that. Nobody kicked them out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23510	Thank you. Please, please, we have three requests, Mr. Sipović, Lagumdžija and Gligorić. Just stick to the time, please. Before Mr Lagumdžija was Sipović, I must give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23511	Well, I will be very brief, concrete as it is constantly mentioned in this House by the famous vote of entity voting, and so the public is afraid that all will be blocked, that neither the president nor the vice president nor the members of the presidency, nor the government will be elected. Please, gentlemen, dear, why did I say to the distinguished colleagues read Amendment II point 9e) the content in which it says - d) all decisions of the House of Representatives are made by the majority of votes of those present and voting. (e) in the House of Representatives, members will make the most of their efforts to include at least 1/3 of each entity's members' votes. If most, not including 1/3 of the members of the territory of each entity, each entity president of the House, the president of the home and his deputy will, acting as a commission, please let me finish. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23512	You have another minute, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23513	The commission will seek to reach agreement within 3 days of the day of the vote. If these efforts fail, decisions will be taken by the majority of those present and voting on condition that votes against them do not include 2/3 or more members elected from each entity. Please, this provision, the amendment offered, is perfectly accurate and has completely denied the bauk that is said to be blocked by entity vote. And I'm just calling one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23514	Please time, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23515	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23516	Here you go. I'm waiting for you. Believe me, I'm being warned from the College on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23517	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23518	I'm waiting for you to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23519	Let me finish. Don't let me finish thinking. Because I'm the first time I said they don't deal with legal arguments here, and that's why we're putting this situation in this situation so the public can get into a situation where it's clouded. And let me say it in the end. The bauk on entity voting does not exist at all if you take the decidently and read the amendments the Presidency has seen, all ways of deblocking to elect both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23520	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23521	And they don't stand in arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23522	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija has his word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23523	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not naturally answer to Mr. Duraković like this if he hadn't called me directly and asked me. 69 So, I'm glad we agreed on responsibility and I'm glad we got that straight. Mr. Duraković is responsible for his voice, I am responsible for his voice. They are obviously on the opposite sides and there are no problems, and if Mr Duraković wins the vote, he will naturally take responsibility for what will happen next. I'm also willing to take responsibility for what I vote for. I'm willing to take responsibility for going into phase two and I believe that. I also invite all those who think differently to take their own responsibility as I do, as well as those who think as I do. And there's no problem. But there's something else that was a little bit of a problem here. The SDP, myself, any of us in any coalition here is not with anyone but with what we came up with before this parliament a year and a half ago when we addressed the constitutional amendments in September 2004 and launched the process of amending the Constitution. These amendments contain 12 of the 16 amendments from September 2004 when no one, including Mr. Duraković and Mr. Belkić in the Constitutional Commission, has fought to ensure that these amendments come before this parliament. So I, too, got a little votes, bravo Berize, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23524	They were too loud.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23525	That's great. So you see what the man says. They were outvoted by my coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23526	Time, Mr. Lagudmžij.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23527	Well, wait a minute. You see what a man says is painful. It just points out that we've been outvoted by my coalition partners. From the SDA, HDZ and the SDS with which he is as the Party for BiH and today in the coalition, there are the presidents there, at least that's how the man calls for that name, sitting, the minister, fine there. Mr. Duraković won the election, bearer of the list, beat me and sel and Jozo together with others and in the coalition. We tomorrow, I guarantee you, whatever happened, no matter what, past, we will not enter power tomorrow with these coalition partners. Here you go, very clearly. Will you come out tomorrow? Will Mr. Halilović come out, will you leave the federal government of RS? Come out, gentlemen, when you are, don't put me where I am. I'm wearing a black shirt and a red tie because of the ceremony, and otherwise, if I wore a green suit, maybe it could be a red-green coalition. I'm sorry – it's not. I'll disappoint you. Mr. Chairman, please, I'd like to make it very clear to you that Mr. Duraković is sitting here calling me, asking me next time how are the improvements here? Man doesn't see that the state has got one president, that he gets a government, that he gets a jurisdiction that will allow us to get into the EU faster, that he gets one more passable parliament, and the man doesn't see it, and now he needs me, if Suljo hasn't explained it to him, I can't help him either. Suljo didn't have any more time. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23528	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you very much. The replica was still Mr. Zorić. We have representatives who would also like to say something, Mr. Gligorić. Twenty times. Well, here's your word. It's all right, Mr. Kunić. I don't think anyone's ever been cut off for a word or a line before. Okay. I'm ready for teamwork. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23529	I'm on behalf of the club looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23530	I've announced Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23531	We need to sit right now. We couldn't consult the chairman, but we do have a need. Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23532	Okay. At the request of the Croatian Representatives' Club, I am giving a half-hour break. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We had plenty of time for both lunch and consultation. We're going back to work. We expect that members of the presidency will join us again soon, that is, the chairman of the presidency, Mr Sulejman Tihić. The first one came after the break, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Let Mr. Šefik Džaferović prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23533	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, I must say that this debate is quite detached from some of the principles that we adopted at the College this morning, so that we are trying to get rid of some of the difficult words and try not to go back to some period that has passed, fortunately we have failed so that in today's debate we have really had the opportunity to hear everything and everything, and even at some point it seemed to me that we have come out of the context of a correct parliamentary debate. So we could hear, among other things, that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina is against these constitutional changes. I guess the colleagues who said that meant that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina they came from. Because the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina don't think the same thing about these constitutional changes in Banja Luka and Sarajevo. I must say that I attended a public debate here in Sarajevo and I must say that it is a good thing that this public debate has not heard the public of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, because one part of that public would probably think differently today. 71 Also, colleagues who are invited to the public can submit a report from a public debate before these amendments even came to the debate that was in Banja Luka, so they would see that there are more public opinion to say in this country. The debate, of course, could be heard among other things and why it is responsible for who is responsible if who is accepted if not accepted, who is responsible for not returning where they are well and who is responsible because they have returned where they are not well. What is fundamentally dear gentlemen in this debate, and what seems to us only a little bit to pass is a long and long time preparation of the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina in different parts of the various possible changes to the Constitution. So some have persistently prepared the public for all the evil in this country to come from entities, better said than Republika Srpska, and that all of this will be resolved at the moment when the Republic of Srspska does not exist, without it having to be made constitutional changes. They unfortunately pay for it today, I feel a tribute to such a nastacular policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Others are calling for this to be early and that it is necessary to do so after the election. I'd like to really know what it would negotiate after the election. Do they have any other political parties that will win in Republika Srpska in the next election, other than those that are here? Or maybe when they win, they'll think differently after October 1st than they think today. Of course, I understand all these discussions, their goal is actually to justify what they're going to vote on today in the way they vote. It is the right of every MP and every party. What I, as head of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, intend to say is in a few sentences. If anyone thinks we've entered these changes happy to see constitutional changes, then they're wrong. The most appropriate thing for us was not to change the existing situation if we watched some thinking before the constitutional negotiations. And in that sense, if we were to think today as we did then we would be most suited to the views of the Party for BiH and others in terms of voting, not in terms of, of course, motive for which they would vote as they would vote. When did we enter these negotiations? We entered the moment we received assurances, or we were convinced that these talks would be conducted on the principle of free will. And that their result will be the result of the will of those who negotiate there. And from that moment on, the SDS with its representatives has been very actively involved in these talks. Of course, many here are mentioned fears. We weren't afraid of constitutional changes, we were dusting the ambitions of some who participated in constitutional changes. Now that the matter has come to this point, I must say that this process was the result of free will and that we all had to step down from some initial positions. We didn't think we'd compromise so no one would step back from some initial positions. As we didn't think the initial positions would remain as they are. Because then we wouldn't have negotiations. Of course, if it were just us, our will was different, but our will was limited by the will of others who negotiated. And that's why we've agreed to one of these long-term conversations, and I have to say today after these conversations, it seems to me, successful conversations. Of course, how convenient we'll see, probably after the vote. We had obviously different all of us, or most of our different goals, not to say that we had different starting positions. The SDS objective was the balance, hence the attempt to find a balance between, on the one hand, the request of the Venice Commission that was created as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, and then the EU's requirement for a more efficient and functional Bosnia and Herzegovina and ultimately the US's request to create a country that can access Euro-Atlantic integration. On the other hand, we had the desires, intentions, and the commitment to retain the constitutional composition of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is Bosnia and 72 Herzegovina with entities, and to ensure that the competences of the entities as well as the interests of the Serb people are fully protected by these constitutional changes. Of course, the interests of those who talked to them cannot be avoided and not only cannot they be avoided, but also unnecessary to avoid them if we want a successful course of conversation and a successful conclusion of these talks. Is that what we did? It seems to me that we have succeeded most of the time, so to the extent that the others were willing to support our intentions. So, as I could say otherwise, others have succeeded to the extent that we were prepared and able to support their commitment. I'm not going to talk about the substance of the amendment now, because we don't have amendments to the amendments. So, we don't have anything that we think is necessary today, but we would change a lot, but we understand that today's will at this moment and in this place does not exist for such changes and that we would question the number of votes that are willing to support these constitutional changes in this moment. With all this in mind, I hope I haven't caused any replicas, I've tried really not to cause any replicas, and otherwise I try not to use big words today because it seems to me that it's a good thing that I don't say everything we think today. Sometimes this unspeakable gold of mine is worth it today. So, given everything I've said, the SDS Club will support constitutional amendments in the form in which they were delivered after the constitutional and legal commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23534	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23535	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellencys, ambassadors, representatives of the international community, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all, and I wish everyone every good. I have already had the opportunity on several occasions to say from the post, or from the pay phone several messages concerning these ongoing amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but let me now say in short lines what I think in this phase of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution. Dear colleagues and colleagues each have their own vision of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I and my political party have a vision of how Bosnia and Herzegovina should look in the future, but in order to achieve this vision it is necessary to join in accordance with Article 10. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution i.e. provide two-thirds support in this home and adequate support in the House of Peoples, which means that changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina of any kind, and here are the conceptual changes that require political agreement between all relevant political factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Neither am I until the end satisfied with the solutions reached at this stage of constitutional reform. I would have a lot of objections, too, but I always ask myself whether because what has not now been achieved at this stage of reform, which I would like to destroy, too, what is an obvious improvement and obvious progress for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all its citizens. For me, it's not a dilemma entity vote yes or no. I believe it is not a property or an immutably civil home, but it does not remain an entityal vote in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina because we agreed to stay, but remains because we could not agree to withdraw from the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for me, it's not a dilemma. I say no, for me it is a dilemma whether because we cannot reach an agreement to abolish an entity 73 vote we should ruin everything we have done as positive at this stage of constitutional reform. I don't think we should do this, we don't need an eye because of what we haven't been able to agree on to ruin what is clearly progress for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every normal modern state in the world measures its capacity with competences, measures its competences. In the existing Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is for the mesar of this agreement, in the existing Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our country has foreign policy in its original jurisdiction, has monetary policy through the Central Bank and has a partial customs policy, because the customs law, the Customs Policy Act, has therefore shown the matter of the state parliament, and customs administrations have been entity and Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina until two years ago. With this constitutional reform, and I repeat, this is for me only the heart of the agreement in the original jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in addition to these powers that I have counted, the defences, security enter, then fiscal policy through the Directorate for indirect taxation, that is, the system of indirect taxation, because it is now the jurisdiction that has been transferred to the state, and will not be able to return without a decision by this Parliament and both entity parliaments, so it is practically becoming the original state jurisdiction. The Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, truth for the will of the rest of the judicial system or the judiciary system, have been given jurisdiction to enter other powers governed by law and to enter the powers that will be necessary for this country on its European and Euro-Atlantic security routes. I will not talk about the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in general, I will not talk about the Presidency, I will not talk about the Council of Ministers, this is all enough for me to enter into the process of reforming the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I am not ready to ruin this which obviously means progress for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I repeat for all its citizens, because this will be implemented by all the peoples and all the citizens in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is in the interest of both the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens. Another thing that is very important to me in all this, until the year before, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina couldn't even talk about changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remember a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission when, due to the lack of quorum, because there was no political will to discuss it at all, they could not hold meetings of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, thank God we have the political agreement to go into the process of changing the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is the first stage in changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have both the US and the EU in defence reform, police reforming the indirect taxation system, but for the first time today we have firm guarantees from the United States of America and firm guarantees from the EU on the constitutional reform process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the debate and during the discussion, I had already read the works of Mr Nikolas Brns' letter and read the parts of the letter from the President of the European Commission. The letter by Mr Brns says, only the last two passports, you all have it in front of you, this for the public, the United States stands at this historic moment with Bosnia and Herzegovina deciding on this step, you will release the first phase of change that will help you move on the path to Euro-Atlantic integration. We will all be in the future, and we commit ourselves to unconditional support for the next important phase of constitutional reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We look forward to our partnership cooperation in an effort to achieve it. And in one part of the letter from the President of the European Commission, it is said – this is an important step in the necessary constitutional and legal evolution that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be able to take on its European path. The European Commission will continue to support the constitutional reform and provide guidance and assist the process in the future. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so today we have a process that guarantees the start of the process, which is guaranteed by the world's highest authorities and administrations. Alternative to this, the failure to adopt these constitutional reforms, and that is clearly said hopelessness. I said it the other night in the fog. It is absolutely certain that the second stages will not be unless there is this stage. That is why I call on all my colleagues, especially those who have not yet made a decision, including colleagues who have decided to oppose this, to reconsider once more and to give a chance to normal constitutional legal developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina, we owe so much to our state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I simply do not see an alternative this time and cannot imagine the development of events in case these amendments in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament are not accepted. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23536	The word was requested by the chairman, colleague Martin Raguž. An netačan quote from a fellow Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23537	Mr. Chairman, it is incorrect that you are Mr. Šefik Džaferović said there is no problem with the quorum. On 19 December 2005, I gave the amendment procedure to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that changes the entire constitution. Since the four sittings of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, twice it has not been a quorum and only for that point. So that's what's scary and it's not exactly what you said and I don't have a reason to believe what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23538	Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23539	You see, Mr. Potočnik, I really have no intention of leading the controversy with you, when I said that just a year ago there was no preparedness and mentioned a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that was the famous session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was recorded on all the newspapers in the country, when simply because there was no political willingness to even discuss the change of the Constitution there was an leaving session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and it ended the work in this way. I remember that picture and I just, uh, kept in mind that picture I went out and said that thing. We today have the political readiness in Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the reform of our constitution. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23540	One more time, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23541	This is simply incorrect because it is obvious that we do not have the will, that is, to discuss only what we want to discuss, and not all the proposals, and to deny that 75 rights both civil and parliamentary. And it's not normal for a single parliamentary and normal democratic state.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23542	We have another replica. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23543	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must say that Mr. Potočnik is right when he says that we have avoided discussing the Constitutional and Legal Commission on his proposal. Look, I did not want to attend or attend a debate on any proposal on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that denies the existence of Republika Srpska. So, Mr. Potočnik, I will never take part in the debate on your amendment to the Constitution, and I made it quite clear to the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23544	The word was asked for by the chairman, Comrade Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23545	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, Excellency, respected representatives of the communication funds, no matter what, I think we're still here today to conduct a proper debate and I'd say a quality debate. All the oscillations that such a debate carries, given the content of the agenda point, and I think we should both end up and end up in that environment and decide. I will as chairman of the House several principle notes before I give my opinion on the content of these constitutional changes. I have advocated and advocated today that this Parliament make a decision in accordance with its constitutional powers. And this whole debate today shows that we are not yet at the level of institutional responsibilities. Why am I saying this? Because let's say here we had a preparation, like I was, I'm not going to judge it with either positive or negative. We had these parties that were inside, and they're not going to assess it positively either. We had sponsors, we had an announcement which direction it should go. And we have the result of that operationalized in the presidency proposal. I think we have a right here to say what we think of this agreement. And not only say, but fix it if we think we need to fix it. But that's our decision. It's the institution's decision, because we've been chosen for it. It's our responsibility. Respecting all those who participated in the preparation and party leaders both the United States and the EU everything else. And here's our chance. We have a chance today to send a positive message to the Bosnian Herzegovic public and to the international community, the United States, that we are ready to take responsibility, but that we are ready to consider the legitimate requirements standing on the table of gentlemen here in the form of amendments offered by the Presidency, but also authorised amendment promoters are MPs. And why is the atmosphere of opponents and enemies created in advance here and those who are. Why? Let's discuss each amendment today and come up with the best solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Decisions which will not prejudice any specific and specific legitimate interest. But the solutions of gentlemen who won't constantly generate political instability and who won't in different ways regulate the rights of individual and collective. 76 And why you avoid arguing about it. As soon as that question opens, we'll label. We're going to label. Well, you can't, gentlemen. You can go through the media, you might even win that game, and this is about fighting for principles, at least when it comes to the political option that I come from. Nothing else. It's a fight for principles. If we don't have enough arguments and we don't convince you, we might lose that battle today. But surely there, this right to a political struggle cannot be denied by anyone or by any unprincipled activity, nor by labels. I can only make stronger arguments. And what do we have on the table? So we have the first phase that has been seen to be necessary, that we do not have the political force in Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring 10 years after Dejton a democratic constitution which would be the best solution for each of its people and for this country. If Dejton was a necessary and painful compromise to stop the loss today is not such a situation. Today we are all at a consensus to go to the EU and see what is really a European standard of what is not. That's our role here. As for the first phase of the reform of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is really necessary and I personally support it and support any solution that strengthens the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only on the European path but also in terms of the challenges of economic, social, political, infrastructure, generation, environmental and all that stands before the people of this country. But please, can we constantly ignore certain legitimate political views. That's what I'm asking you all here. I remind you, the position of the Venice Commission at which a lot of MPs are here today have been called on to say that this transfer of power from entity to Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a painful process, that it is imminent, but that the process needs to be ensured by the consensus of three constituent peoples. That's very explicit. Check it out. I won't talk about others. I can speak on behalf of a club that represents at least 80% of the will here in this home which is directly chosen, so you have no consensus on the side, so the principle of the Venice Commission is not respected. And we have warned both publicly and on time, we have offered amendments and imagine please at the time of the Constitutional and Legal Commission the Proposer takes and makes one selection of his own to get votes to adopt the principles by ignoring the most powerful amendments and the most arguments we have offered. And what do they expect? So we ignore you politically, ignore what you're looking for, and we need your votes at the end now. Well, that's a question of dignity I now say here that once in a way someone has to articulate and pay the political price. I'm ready personally. So I'm not questioning this process, and today we're offering these amendments to accept the first phase. Isn't that a fair offer in front of the public, in front of political parties, in front of everyone else. Accept the position that it is not a European standard for a nation to be in a permanent position, an inferior political position in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's a European standard, let me know. I don't think so and convince us that it is. Equalize that position and you have our vote. You're making a fairer offer. I think and we've offered amendments that solve it. Everything further required of us means one unprincipled dimension that we will not accept. And all the messages that come to us mean a lack of argument, but a matter of politicizing the whole process. And that's why, Mr. Lagumdžija, since you came to me today, which I respect and consider to be an honest communication and I am now most sincerely telling you what guarantees are for the next stage. Why did I tell you it was phase one? Yes, phase one. But in the first stage, these two amendments. That's a guarantee for us. And here's what we can do today. It is for us to guarantee that we all start from the same positions in the next phase. Here. Isn't that a fair offer? And together I share responsibility for this stage and for the sudden stages without which of course, without which, of course, without the 77nd phase, it is clear that neither this is enough nor good, nor that this country can definitely function so that it can deal with these processes that stand before it. So there are variations, three variants we offered on the Constitutional Commission. Well, gentlemen, you want to keep the entity vote. You're saying it wasn't possible to do this now. So listen, can a European standard mean two entity decisions are made in this home? Entities have their own parliament and let them have, no one question entities. Let them decide their powers, their powers in full capacity, neither I disturb them, nor question their entities. What about the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Depending on the fourfold principle. And yet dependent on the way in which a package of Parliament opens where the House of Peoples loses its former role, we all know, it is said here it is derived from the House of Representatives and there is no mechanism that it can independently protect the vital national interest, but leads it to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court knows that there are no precise provisions about it and we know in the end, we have experience, a fat experience from this mandate as a few laws have ended with vital national interest. And now that package is opening up, the whole thing is dislocated in the House of Representatives, which I support, and this House of Representatives as legislative power is controlled, we know how and who can control it. And come on, here's three options, take one. If that's the way it stays inside, everyone has the same mechanism. That's a fair offer. So don't keep ignoring us and don't think that political unbelief of manipulation will continue. No, we're looking for the same standard, European standard. Whatever it is, sign it the same for everyone, and then I support it, we raise our hands with all our hearts and push it in that direction. That's important. So phase one, phase two, I think we've explained that position. As for the opinions on the possibilities of the first stage and our European path, I am also one of those and you all know if anyone here started two years ago and talked and lobbied both across Europe and America to move into this, I am absolutely up to it and I think today that even without the US and the EU we are not up to the process, I would like to be, on our own, to take over and play that role and responsibility. And we need that kind of help and we need to earn it. But in these merits, we need to respect the arguments, and we need to respect each other. Otherwise, if the situation remains a two-centiary dimension in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, only one conclusion can be drawn. This indicates the second stage and who is willing to take responsibility for such a second phase. For such a second phase focused and very limited, if these don't go away, these shortcomings at this stage, I'm not personally for that kind of approach. The second thing, bringing into the context of different myths that are discussed here about the regional dimension, dependence and certain solutions and regional over-region, so this dimension cannot be avoided. We can talk, but we're serious people. Don't make that price of regional surplus always pay the same. It's a very important message. The other thing is, we have experience in previous stages. So those who had a pen like former High Representative Mr. Petrič to realize the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. So he had it on his pen. When he realized it and when he left, he came back and said it was actually a crazy shirt. After that. So that's our experience with earlier offers we've had. It means I'm not quoting some of the others who, after the most responsible missions in this country, gave grades in this country as they were. So he's had a ten-year and serious experience of previous stages and a quiet and crawling audit of Dejton. If you want the political attitude that I will definitely express here, I think that the creative interpretation of Dejton has come to the wall and that if this process continues, I think the price of 78 will be paid by the citizens of this country and it is already paid by all the social parameters of economic, including this integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with all the successes that have been achieved that should not be ignored fat at the bottom of the European scales. And that's the alarm bell, and I believed that there would be power here, that regardless of the differences that are necessary and logical, I would even say given the different positions and here I hear what Mr. Novaković keeps telling us under what conditions and under what circumstances, I respect it. To me, it's a legitimate political stance. But also allow Mr. Novaković that without equality in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here I am not talking about entities or our voice is not possible, and thus we are not jeopardising any of your positions, political or constitutional. On the contrary, we are all creating a framework to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions together. Here, I think there's still room for some of these fundamental principles and I'm just going to say one here, it's the same right in the decision-making process in the Parliamentary Assembly for all constituent peoples to accept as a principle that we can count on support, regardless of what I would take political responsibility for support at that point, regardless of what I would take political responsibility within my own option at that moment, but I would be willing to, esteeming all the efforts that have been made so far, all the importance of this issue, let's say, under these minimum conditions, to take the debate further on this issue. If that is not the case, then do not transfer responsibility to those who have sought and offered it. Please don't. It's not fair. It's about those who have created and reached different standards and positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23546	I would like to thank the chairman, Mr. Raguž, for the presentation, for the discussion. Mr. Lagumdžija was looking for a replica. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare for the discussion, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23547	My colleague Raguž, I have no intention of replicating it, but since you have asked me directly, yet to be, not to remain a vague colleague of Raguž. You see, we have here in two amendments conditioned yours, or a set of amendments to the amendments concerning one abolition of the entity vote, and another conditionalally stated strengthening of the mechanisms of ethnic voting within the parliamentary assembly. I'd just like to remind you that and that you've certainly read this, but for the sake of the public, for all of us, that we know what we're talking about. The opinion of the Venice Commission this last since 15 days ago which is an opinion on the specifics of this amendment, it has, conditionally speaking, when the voting in two homes and the jurisdiction of two homes in question has little to comment on which I fear one would like one, and the other like other comments. In fact, here I kept insisting and speaking to the question so-called The qualified majority in the House of Representatives is actually something that in itself is pointless and unnecessaryly so much discussion we have about because a much stronger brake exists in the House of Peoples, and the Venice Commission, Mr Raguž, you know it as well as I do, is actually problematic that we are vital national interest in the House of Nations too broadly and they even directly suggest that 79 of this provision should be deleted, but also by respecting the state in which we are. They say we're actually up here, period, part 4.10 that comment on point 39. Venice Commissions. A new point a) in which we have said that BiH's constituent peoples have an inalienable right to protect vital national interest, they treat it as something that we have raised our vital national interest to the degree of inalienable human rights and they believe it is completely contrary to the principles we practically advocate, but also they rightly say that in view of each other's mistrust, this can be left now. So I just want to tell you that we are not going to settle this in constitutional amendments or individual members, but only by raising the degree of mutual trust. And what we are working on right now, this first step that we are talking about, is nothing more than an attempt, and I believe that all of us are starting to build a degree of trust between us and that what the Venice Commission has given us is to accept as something that represents our obligation that, in the next phases and in the next development of parliamentary life in this country, we respect it because without respecting these views, we will not be able to be able to accept what we all want, and that is full membership in the EU. In other words, I fully understand your conditional terms of your questions, but let what you're looking for puts us back one more step from what the Venice Commission is looking for here. I totally understand what you're saying, but I'm in the debates that we've had, too, step behind what I think is necessary. Step forward to meet precisely your fears, especially the fears of people who are perfectly natural, no matter what nation they belong to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23548	Okay. Thank you very much. I'll give up the replica. I've made my views known. I respect what you said. Let's move on. Mr. Sead Avdić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23549	...and on two reports from the Venice Commission. One is March 11, 2005, the second is April 7, 2006. The views of the Venice Commission in these two documents are not identical. They're not identical. I also asked the Council of Europe and the Political Committee of Monitoring for the Committee to accept and ask the Venice Commission to determine itself because in 2005, she made her opinion clear on entity voting, and then said that entity voting should not be an obstacle to the adoption of amendments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It politicizes a simple case, it's not its simple domain or ingenuity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23550	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mrs. Majkić prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23551	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected members of the predsjednštvo, respected members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to address everything to join the opinions of my colleagues and colleagues here today who have said that today's debate and 80 I hope the positive results of this debate are the most significant political events in Bosnia and Herzegovina following the Dayton Peace Agreement. However, unfortunately in the debates, the public debates we had before today in these proposed constitutional amendments have created a very bad political climate for today's adoption of these amendments. I think it comes first of all because of the malicious interpretation of certain solutions offered to these amendments. The real meaning and essence of constitutional change are distorted. I would certainly like to say that it would be much happier to discuss today the new constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina on more complete changes to the Constitution. But unfortunately, we don't have the political will. But I am also happy as a member of this parliament that after 10 years of the Dayton Peace Agreement, from peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have come to this one to say a critical consensus politically for us to discuss constitutional changes at all. I'll remind you, I was in Banja Luka on a round table on constitutional changes just over a year ago in the organization of Independent Newspapers. To weigh the number of participants in the round table, he stressed that we simply do not have the opportunity to discuss constitutional changes at all because in Bosnia and Herzegovina, such a division and such a great mistrust that we simply do not have an environment for constitutional change. The question arises who is in charge, who is in charge of creating a political state and an ambience politically in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If these are political parties, that's their basic task. And not to mention, I'm happy that we still have this situation today that we have so many political responsibilities and wills to correct what is necessary to fix. Many friends asked me why the SDP was so involved and exposed in these constitutional changes. You're saying the opposition party, you have one easy position, you could balance there, not spend so much. We believe constitutional changes are not a matter of position and opposition that it is a matter of all, primarily of employees here, because we represent the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can sincerely reach the level of this political consensus in these amendments in the deep belief that these changes are in favour of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while at the same time not harming any people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also support them for being aware that this is the beginning of a process of change. We also support them because they are the result of a patient political discussion on the scale and depth of these changes. And, of course, let's say right away, we're not even satisfied, we're not completely satisfied, actually at the depth and width of these changes. But we are pleased that we agreed, and also that we have guarantees, therefore, signatories of the agreement, but also friends from the international community, that these are not the end of the process. That we have the opportunity to build upon the BiH Constitution. I also want to say that we need this to be one lesson, how we can change, how we can even pass laws in this country and how we can change the Constitution. We can only change it patiently, with consensus, tolerance, mutual respect, and today I've heard this word of confidence several times. Trust is what we must build up for each other and thus get, as Col. Milićević said, one self-esteem and then, based on that self-esteem, we will deserve help, be a serious partner to the international community and expect it to continue to help us. I also want to say that being a perfect constitution, just that we now have a perfect constitution, it's neither a guarantee nor enough to make this country go better into some kind of prosperity, which most of us are seeking. That is why we must say and be aware, it is a necessary framework, and how we will use this 81 constitution, how we are going to implement the laws, it will depend, of course, on the composition, above all on the Parliamentary Assembly, and from the further institutions, that is, the state bodies of BiH. I want a very brief remark, on a bauk question, which is being asked here, which is an entity's vote. So we didn't spoil anything with these changes. The entity vote remains what was not willing and ready to change, but it is also an interpretation, that one-third of the entity can be blocked and I think it is a good thing that counterpart Sipović quoted the Rules of Procedure. Basically, we can actually say that two-thirds of the representatives of an entity can block some law, and let me always be with two liquids of these people, if they are not satisfied with certain solutions and that's true. And finally, let me express one of my deep convictions that today as responsible people, however, we will estimate that this is one important moment for BiH, that we must use it to create an annual institutional framework for more efficient and faster implementation of necessary reforms, which bring us closer to a modern world and that the proposed amendments, however, represent one step and allow this country to start to look like a normal European country, only beginning to look alike, of course, with further efforts to continue these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23552	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. The word has Mrs. Majkić. Get Jelina Đurković ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23553	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, Honored Excellency, I would like to address one point of view, and that is what today's debate at this House has shown. She showed that we lack two things communication and trust. When I say communication, then I think a little bit of when the sessions of this house were talking about essential things like this. We prefer the many important things we should have talked about a year or a few years ago under the rug, because they were all nice, good, and we didn't cause any controversy. We passed laws the way we used to. Today it seems to me that for the first time we have spoken as parliamentarians, and today I am pleased and happy to be a member of this House. The other thing that we're missing has proved to be today, that we lack trust. Trust at all levels. The trust between the peoples living in the Federation, the majority peoples, the trust between the RS and the Federation, the trust of the most different species that we have shown today, and that's what we're going to have to work on. Many today have said that nothing important will happen to any constitution that we bring, if we don't do something in that field and, something else today, we have shown that every change in life needs two sides, one, in BiH as many as three. We can never, by the will of one or one political option or by one part of the state, make crucial decisions concerning the lives of all the people who live in these areas, but to look at the whole problem on the other hand. What would happen if the international community believed in the knowledge, consciousness, the desire of politicians in BiH's space and did not do the whole process of constitutional change as it did. I am sure that every MP's club, and in the light of that, each MP individually has a vision of what the constitution should look like, as far as it would lead us. I think they did us a favor to be respected, though. 82 And today, when we are here where we are, do we have the right to turn our backs on the citizens of this country who expect much from us? Do we have the right to stop this country on the path of European integration? Do we have the right to decide as we will to the international community, which has done so much for this country? I don't think we have the right, too much effort, too much money, and everything else has ended up in this country, so we can act irresponsiblely. The political party agreement has shown that a large number of BiH political public are ready to compromise and that it participates in changes in this country, and that is the only way to help it. There's that good folk saying, which says, if you're in, give me your hand, if you're against the evidence. Today we heard a lot of what it was to give a hand and how the session is taking away more and more reasons to give a hand. We haven't heard enough, at least I as a man try to be extremely rational all the time. We haven't heard too much of what could be used, as opposed, as evidence. Today, all the political parties in this home will show their true face. They'll show it to the citizens of this country. To the representatives of the international community, we're going to show it to each other at the end, and I think that today many have been surprised that we sitting around, that's how much in these benches, we've met a lot of each other. I am sorry, indeed, that some political parties in BiH have shown their patriotism, insisting constitutional changes are not accepted as amendments. They say they are doing so because they want BiH to make a better and more functional country, they did not say whether to measure all its citizens. That in this country, therefore, we must cultivate dialogue and agreement and that no one can get everything and that everyone has to sacrifice something, I guess today it's clear to everyone. The views of individual political parties speak of their dishonesty in showing concern for BiH's fate, I am saying this for the reason that I can otherwise interpret that a vast part of the energy used to convince the public against constitutional changes has not been used to curb crime, corruption, bad economy, the departure of young people outside of this country, so I cannot believe the good intentions of those who say, should remain and maintain the situation as it is. To ask, what's the backup solution? What if we don't adopt constitutional changes? There is no answer other than silence, which suggests that everything that is desired by certain political options should be done on their behalf by someone outside of this country, the illusion is to the international community, I say, thank God so that the time behind us for any change, constitutionally specifically, must be reached by all three peoples. Finally, isn't that the new quality of this country, isn't that proof of the maturity of the Bosnian-Herzegovina political scene? It would be good to direct all that amount of energy we use on the wrong things, as opponents in adopting constitutional changes, towards a better life for the citizens of this country. Yesterday I saw a man who starved to death in the grass next to the train that arrived. It's the reality of the country we live in. If politics are valued and determined by the quality of its citizens' lives, then BH politicians would have little reason to be satisfied. That is why today we can safely say that the more functional constitution is an equal, more functional BiH. And these are arguments for BiH's further integration into Europe, as well as arguments for further life-forming that these peoples live on. Political leaders have shown wisdom and maturity during talks on constitutional reform. Citizens of this country, many of them are grateful to them for this, and to the international 83 community, it is certainly a reliable sign and a strong sign, that for the support of BiH, which I am sure will not be left behind. And finally, we all need to think together politics is the skill of possible. At this point, we've come this far and we've done so much. Therefore, in accordance with the principles of my party's work, and with my will, I will vote for constitutional principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23554	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. We have Mr. Špirić's business intervention, so the correction of Mr. Zorić's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23555	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying all this time, which is not my thing not to discuss much, not to replicate and not to call on the line, but I want to help all of us. This is a debate, therefore, in the first reading of principles. I would beg, therefore, all my colleagues, we will come to the amendment. So, we're going to have a chance to say what we're thinking about as many amendments as possible, but I think it would be good if we brought in a debate on principles, not to go back three years. So we have a concrete text on the table and it's good to say whether or not we agree with the principles, so that we can talk in the second phase about what's been offered as amendments to the amendments that haven't passed. So let's speed up a little bit, because I'm afraid that simply this debate isn't going to help resolve the dilemmas that exist, but simply stick to what we have on the table and in that sense, here we come to a situation that we have two sexes, one that thinks that the change of the Constitution is the strengthening of entities, not states, and others that think that this is the strengthening of the state, not entities. So, an existing state, if there is an existing state of strengthening the state then let's keep it that way, but I don't think so. So let's talk about the essence of what they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23556	Please, Nikola, it was business intervention, not content. Call for a hearing, you'll get your word for others. Now we have Mrs. Jelina Đurković. I apologize for correcting the wrong assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23557	kolegica Majkić said at one point that I will not repeat the context now, but said there are majority peoples in the Federation of BiH. I first heard that formula that there are more majority peoples in the multi-national community. You may have thought of three peoples of the majority people. If I may be by your two, then there may be hundreds of majority, only one nation is majority in one territory. And the other thing you said here, that was to let the MPs know, the change of the Constitution would never have happened. Does that mean that this was unconsciously made or unconscious, and you said here that everyone has to sacrifice something, probably thinking, and you haven't said it and you haven't said it all. In the end, you were wondering what if we didn't adopt, and I was wondering what if we adopted. I'm really asking myself a question where I'll move out if I adopt this. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23558	Mrs. Majkić's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23559	I, I really think Mr. Zorić that you shouldn't have any comment on any MP's comments. Me and you think the same thing, so I think, sometimes I think I'd like to comment, but I don't think it's correct. You're not the duty officer here who should put an opinion on every point of view. I beg you to spare us that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23560	Replica Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23561	I'd better say it, and you should. I'm just using the business opportunities of my colleague Majkić. If I were your people or your people, I wouldn't act like you. I'd be a lot more honest. You guys, some of us were just driving us to the hospital today when I had appendicitis. You're throwing salt at our wound. You, you, just you, and then you say I'm on call. I have to be on duty. I'm the president of a club here, which has, so almost double the MPs than your club and you would teach me a lesson here. I've got to be on duty here and I'll be on duty and all of this I've put here doesn't agree with what you've said and it's not in the majority of the peoples on one territorial unit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23562	I thank Mr. Zorić. This warning that I was supposed to intervene, it just wasn't time, because you responded immediately. Next is Mrs. Jelina Đurković, and let Mr. Ćeman be prepared. I'm going to read the order, and I'm going to ask you to get it over with with with. After Mr. Ćeman, Mrs. Ruža Sopta, Ivo Lozančić, Filip Andrić, Sead Avdić and Tihomir Gligorić, I apologize before Mr. Andrić is Mrs. Senija Kapetanović, then Mrs. Leho, Izet Hadžić and Mr. Sipović go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23563	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, your Excellencys and ladies and gentlemen, finally to come to my turn as a representative of the Party of Democratic Progress, I will support the amendments that we are discussing today and I will vote for them. I believe that the scale of change is in line with the real possibilities of the current political moment and the confidence measures between decision-makers and God and the people. If the confidence measure had been greater, probably the amendments to the Constitution would not have been divided into phase one and phase two, but we would have done something that might have been more rational and faster, but, behold, today's debate has shown the moments that the crashes were in our discussions, in the debates and discussions, how much there is still no honesty and no trust between us. That's why I think this, this scale change is appropriate, that's exactly what we trust. What else does it matter? What should I say hello? Many of my predecessors said that a year or two ago there was no talk about the possibilities of even discussing amendments to the Constitution, and, behold, today we already have a debate, we have ready amendments, which is good. This is a good sign that we're already on track to hear that we're not going one-way. Our interests and intentions and 85 of our desire, and to kind of push through, rather than hear others, to hear the fears and limitations of others, and I'm not saying that we've removed them all and that we've gained this full confidence measure, but this is a good way to go forward and, of course, trust should be built. It's a painful process. I believe when we break down some stereotypes, which exist from the beginning, about the good guys and the bad guys, about the good ones and the bad ones, that we're going to have more results and we're going to be more satisfied. So, I don't know if there is a man, a representative of the Serbian people who would now tell you, well, we agree to abolish the RS. It's not there. It's a reality. It's a reality, which, indeed, needs to be accepted and it should be accepted that we're thinking that we're not the bad guys. And the result is what we're discussing today. So, we accept, I will vote for these amendments and hope that the process of trust and honesty has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23564	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go. Let Mrs. Ruža Sopta prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23565	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and present, the amendments offered are less than we need, less than what I advocate and what I would like, but still, more than what we currently have and therefore worth supporting them. I will support these amendments. They and from a formal-legal nomotechnical aspect could have been somewhat more consistent, but the technical side of things here is completely irrelevant, or at least not primary. I had the opportunity to participate in various phases with different obligations in some preparatory activities, while this was happening and my starting position, and the political options I belonged to, sought to say let's open the story of a whole new constitution, let's reach a new agreement in BiH on the principle of equality, on the principle of unity and objectives, etc. It wasn't possible. Today's debate shows that it's not even possible today. But today's debate, however, shows that what was offered and what was not said today, when carefully read, what was not offered, obviously could not be skipped, and what was offered is what we can reach agreement on today. I am also a witness as a member, but also as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commissions over the past months, and even years in this mandate, that only now has the time matured and matured opportunity to even talk about constitutional amendments in parliamentary procedure in, here, a dialogueal way. Not long ago, I remind you, too, because it's an important political fact, it wasn't supposed to be talking about this topic at all. This step should be appreciated, so I want to believe, indeed, that this is only the first step, that this is only the first phase, and a lot of what is said in the public debate, and through amendments that did not have the necessary support, and even at the commission stage, it is obvious that in the stages that will follow, I, in this respect, will have to be very serious too, indeed, understand the objections that could be heard, so, if you want and from the aspect of the positions of this and that people, but I also said that Mr Špirić at first had to be quite rightly found both as an MP and as one of the chairman, or vice president, it is legitimate to open this issue over and over again. So, 86 in support of these amendments, I'm not asked the question, and if I appeal to my colleagues to support this. However this goes today, the citizens of this country that we represent have the right to always build upon the constitutional and legal system of this country, including from the aspect of the internal structure and from the aspect of entities and everything else that is important to their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23566	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. The word is Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Have Mr. Ivo Lozančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23567	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, honourable ministers, members of the Presidency, honored chairman, distinguished guests, representatives of the media, I welcome you all to this distinguished meeting, especially for us parliamentarians, a successful completion of this task, a good result, for the benefit of BiH and all its peoples, so what it means at this point. We need a constitution. Because what's a state without a constitution. I'd like to discuss today the Constitution, the constitution that was made according to the will of all three nations, as some colleagues called out at will. But at will, all three peoples to that border as they touch each other, until they put each other above each other. I'm unhappy that today we're discussing amendments to something that isn't a constitution, something that we're destined to be a constitution while we bring our constitution. It's a bad thing to fix, especially bad, which in this House has been given the epithets of monsters, crazy shirts, nakaradas, quasimonds, etc. I have a particular concern when something is being fixed, something when it is being corrected and amended, because we Hrvat have a very bitter experience from Vošington, through Dejton, and through the crawling changes of the Constitution to this day. A very difficult experience, because this crazy shirt has just become all narrow and tight, right on us where we were in all of this. So I'm saying again that I wish we could get the strength, with the help of everyone who was really at our disposal, if we had said, we'd give you back what you loaned us as a constitution and help us build our own constitution. But apparently no one was very interested in such a thing. I regret that the media did not convey a public debate, which was organised by Parliament. In fact, it would have been good if we had heard some of the things I keep saying that we individual representatives here don't know, let alone the public. That is why I will use the discussion of a gentleman who spoke at a public debate, who took part in the work of the body, who worked on the BiH Constitution. It is important to know that at the first conference in the Dayton Constitution from 11 November 2005 in Brussels, where eight leaders of BiH's political parties, who are involved in constitutional changes, agreed five fundamental principles for the upcoming constitutional changes in BiH. One is a whole and democratic state of BiH, under 2) equality of three constituent nations, below 3) a rational and functional government, under 4) a strong decentralised state and under 5) the existence of three levels of government, of which the middle must have legislative, executive and judicial authority. 87 These principles, gentlemen, and, if they are widely agreed, there is no agreement on amendments to the BiH Constitution. I wonder in truth why and when they left and with what right. When and how did two phases of constitutional change occur in BiH? In the first and initial document, entitled "The Venice Commission Recommendations", March 2005, which was developed by the US Peace Institute, 15 problems are to be addressed in constitutional reform, 12 in the first and three in the second phase. Of those 12 in the first to not read them all, it is important to note that under the 1st veto of vital national interest, but the same for all three constituent nations, through the Presidency, the election of the Presidency, the election of the House of Peoples, the Council of Ministers, the structure of Parliament, was also under the 10th structure of the state. The Venice Commission said that the existing structure of the auction is neither rational nor effective. One more moment from that, I will read another point from those 12, that is the process of constitutional change must be public, transparent, with the participation of all political forces and civil society. I believe that one part of the negotiations that was conducted up to a certain point, he was keeping an eye on it, exactly and most concentrated around point 10 is the state structure and that it would be transparent. Then, for a time, through the media, we had the opportunity to look at the maps and the regionalization and everything else. At one point it was forgotten and then, without some transparency, we got this example as we got. What I do not think is questionable about this state structure, the structure of the state is that it is not a questionable state level, is not a questionable municipal level, which should be discussed and what I am holding the formula and the key of all changes is that middle level of government, which is questionable in terms of the name, whether these are entities, counties, cantons, regions, republics, provinces, provinces, districts, etc., then whether it will be 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, then in territory, principles of organisation, powers, etc., etc. What I'm saying is that no one has explained to us why and when it left, exactly the key question, which was most important here, that we, today, be offered as material, but it's gone. When it comes to freedom of will, gentlemen here spoke of freedom of will, as something only when it comes to their freedom. Freedom of will should be respected by all three nations, confronted, and it has its limits, and where it is facing another, or confrontation with another will, it should be stopped. Here he says, we should agree to these changes. Who has the right to ask me to agree with the amendments, where I become unequal by my will, where I place my people in an unequal position and put future generations in a situation of inequality. That's why I think this is a good job, which we've done so far, that needs to be changed, that should continue, but go on where, right where it's not good, where we're conflicting. Continue to discuss it and try to bring it into some normal position, try at this point, the awkwardly chosen one to discuss constitutional changes at the pre-election moment, but, I would be most happy to postpone the election at this moment. Let us also consider that what has been omitted in the principles on which these constitutional changes have been agreed and what has been dropped at the points agreed on for the first stage, to agree and 88 then move on and that then, we could probably provide here support for the amendments, although I am unhappy to discuss the amendments, I would prefer that we discuss the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23568	I thank Mrs. Sopta. The word is Mr. Ivo Lozančić. May I have your attention and be correct with each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23569	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, we today have amendments to the Dayton Constitution, namely Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement, which we have been applying for ten years. I believe that we should have had this in the first half of our mandate, and not at the end of the term, when several months before the election and, probably, the solutions would be more quality and the amendments themselves that would be in Parliament's procedure and discussed in Parliament, we would get such content to fix a certain one, which someone pointed out earlier, we're not making anything worse, but we didn't spoil anything with this, but maybe we could fix something. Most of the parties at the beginning of the mandate showed their commitment to European pathways and bringing closer to European integration, speeding BiH through reform courses towards European integration, and were expected to be the priority of constitutional reform, that we would be the first to start constitutional reform, that we would change the Dayton Constitution that has been overcome and that has been blocked and that we would get a new constitution, from which we would implement such reform laws, which would speed up our path. Unfortunately, we have been working backwards and the international community has made an extraordinary effort to implement reforms, to meet these 16 conditions for bringing Europe closer, but all reforms, with heavy compromises, are all reform laws adopted with heavy compromises, with huge efforts by the international community. I believe that at that time, international officials could help us to first come up with good constitutional amendments and deal with the quality amendments to the BiH Constitution, and then to go into reform, they would have implemented it more quickly. We now have reforms in part of security, defence, tax system, financial system, but they are either completely or not, or they are difficult to apply and implemented in space. So no one can say that it is not for constitutional changes, but it can also not say that for constitutional changes, if we have in the Constitution to start making and building an agreement, to start by being equal, or equal to two entities, instead of having a fundamental equality of three peoples and having a common constitutional structure of BiH under two. Under three, we have the rationalisation, functioning of the state and rationalisation in the BiH area and these amendments, we have an improvement and a more functional state of BiH, especially in the part of the executive government from the prime minister to the structure of the Council of Ministers, where we get two new ministries, such as agriculture and the environment, which are very important even earlier that we get them. She lost a lot of BiH because she had the two ministries, which she did not participate in European donations and assistance on incentives in both agriculture and science and technology, and in environmental protection. Unfortunately, we can't say that we don't have equality fundamentally, we don't have the equality of three peoples, we have the equality of two peoples and, indeed, the amendments are written in such a way that we get from one entity maximum support, and in another entity we get 89 majority, so that the support of Croatian MPs is brought in some way and under question and the question of their needs and in such a vote, Hrvat don't have the opportunity to be majorised and one issue is left open so that in the future, I doubt that these amendments can pass to the House of Nations, how to come from the House of Representatives to the House of People and to reach the Constitutional Court and to assess their constitutionality. And finally, to say, at phase two, I don't know what phase two means. We from Vošington have always had the first phase, so to this day we have the first phase and the last one, which was imposed by the High Representative, Mr. Petrich constitutional changes, which were also signed by most parties, who were then part of the negotiations and by a Croatian representative who also shouldn't have signed it when Hrvat were brought, also, into an unequal position in entities, especially in the executive authority and one and another entity. I don't think we should share this anymore in phases and today's agreement, from which the amendments are proposed, leaves the Hrvat in this home, leaves them as majorised in further work, regardless of what trust we are building, which may be quite different when it comes to the looks of the House of Representatives, but we can't escape from the entity vote that it is partly and most national vote and that veto can be reached in the RS here and in the House of Representatives. The Federation Club can only come if this is what the representatives of the Bosniak people want, while as Croatian people's representatives wish, there can be no further addition of the legal projects or their departure to the House of Nations. I think there should be one phase of constitutional change, not two phases, because if there are two phases, then when we adopt this first phase, the second phase we will have at the end of that mandate again, it will again be cosmetic, again it will not bring the state into a symmetric position, it will not regulate the relations of the central authority of the entity, i.e. the middle level, and will not regulate the important problems, which do not bring us, I say, to the inequality of all three peoples, that is the basis of our work, and that is the basic concept of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23570	I thank Mr. Lozančić. The word is Mrs. Senija Kapetanović. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare after him, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23571	I thank the chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Excellency, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I wish to make a contribution to this debate today and, if you could not go into a deep-separation of some problems, because, let's say today, I really hear a lot. But the limitation of the debate, too, has been said to be within five minutes and it can only indicate some of the views and so I will try. So, I'd like to begin the debate with one finding. I would very much like to ask those present today not to experience me in terms of belonging to the entity, or even to the political option, which, probably in vain, is because I want to say that all my commitment in today's debates and decisions, which I will express through the vote, stem from the desire that all Bosanac and Hercegovac make an effort, or that they want to be part of the civilization corps, which for themselves 90 do not seek as individuals, nor as a group of more rights than its neighbour, neighbor, or any citizen of our country, or country, whatever the hell whoever called it. If this is a normal wish, then it's natural for her to strive and try to make it happen. We all know that this is not the case now, the basic mechanism and the social, i.e. the state infrastructure to achieve this is not set up. As the achievement of this goal, of course, is the process, which I must say for too long, but still, it must be a process, it is time for us to create a precondition, and one of the significant preconditions is the change of the BiH Constitution, which is also today's topic. However, I would like to stress that the minimum capacity of the state, which will allow for further changes to be made for the better for every citizen of this country, would be the possibility of a civil statement on changes, not political outwittings or even other reasons, which can be hidden behind conditional voting, how we now have and how we continue as a stumbling block. This is necessary, in my opinion, now to install, in order for some other thinking to get a chance at all, because in this way the established political options will not give that chance for long. It has been shown these ten years after the war and the creation of democratic conditions, all of which are declared to accept them, and in fact we do not realize them. This ideological rigidity and belief in the entity's own values, in today's division of entities and, along with this social infrastructure, through which it is implemented, makes a large part of BiH citizens very unhappy and constantly drags them into marginalisation. That is why, regardless of how much I care about change, I will be in favour of change, if this initial space is adopted in the legislative authority for future and faster changes, if the amendment is adopted, which abolishes the entity's vote in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23572	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Filip Andrić, let Mr. Avdić prepare after him, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23573	I thank Mr. President, respected fellow MPs, Evo, after all these discussions, especially a colleague from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People, everyone before me spoke, I will make the most of the truth, and I would not like to repeat what has already been said, but rather just confirm it, but here, when we discuss it all day, a little bit and forget that it is still, there is a debate on principles, from time to time we get away from it. I will try, perhaps return a little to these principles, and cannot mention what preceded these constitutional changes, that is, the constitution that we want to amend, or to correct, through the proposed amendments. The Dayton Agreement, the result of the Dayton Agreement, was followed by the Dayton Constitution, which organised BiH in a very strange way, not to say a harsher word, where three constituent nations are said to be organised through two entities. True, such an agreement has been accepted, let us sign a representative of all peoples, but also the fact that it has not been given democratic legitimacy and we hold that this is not a solution for BiH, but the price that had to be paid at that time, it is to stop bloodshed, with one great hope that we will one day come into a position when we will be able to talk as normal people about the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a normal manner, based on European standards and democratic principles, as would be normal for any other country. After ten 91 years, we have the result that ethnic cleansing, which happened, unfortunately in the war, was not analized by the return. In one entity came back and we had already had the opportunity to hear less than 5% of Hrvat, and in the second entity the position of Hrvta was brought in a very unprincipled way, i.e. reduced to the position of the national minority, which is confirmed by the facts, very often the laws passed in the Federation end in the Constitutional Court, and especially after the last constitutional changes at the entity level, which was brought by the High Representative, this position was further worsened. Now ten years later, instead of talking about a normal constitution, trying to fix everything that's been missed, we seem to follow the logic and principles of what's already proved to be not an office. That's not how we touch entities, but that's why we keep the entity vote in the Parliamentary Assembly, and that's how we bring the state into dependence on entities. The fate of decisions in this home, which becomes the central place of decision, is in the hands of the entities. With that, we know then the relationship, given the forward terms about the situation in entities, what is the position that the people are in. The story of how we have the House of Peoples, as for the protection of vital national interest, I agree that it should have that function, but the fact that so far the contents of the House of Nations are essentially empty and it becomes, accepts the role of the commission or at best the council of the people, but the worrying fact is why this principle is not equivalent to that of all three constituent peoples. The fact that so far, or the results of the vote in this House, that the other two peoples, who have the right to entity protection, had no need to move vital national interest in the House of Peoples at all, because, of course, everything that had not gone to their disposal, could have stopped it elegantly through an entity vote, there was no need to go to the Constitutional Court. The story of how it might have tried to remove the blockades that existed in the present Constitution through these constitutional changes is really unconvincing. If in truth it were to be done, then it would be done to remove entity decision in the House of Representatives and to give full contents to the House of Nations, where each nation could in the same way protect its interest. In truth, I am surprised by the findings, which are trying to convince us, or explain to us, that we should support this constitution, that no one has received what he has asked for, that should satisfy us as an answer or that this is no harm to anyone. I'd rather we talk with arguments. The fact is that entities remain, so half of the state stays, one nation gets one half of the state, another people gets another half of the state, where all decisions can be made autonomously, and a third nation, it is known to go through such a situation. There's nothing to say but fair. Convincing my friend and distinguished colleague of Mr Špirić's presidency that entity voting does not mean national vote. I'd just like to ask him what his entity is called. What is the name of the entity you come from, and I think there is an answer as far as the entity vote is not also a national vote, it is not, but for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23574	Born in the Federation of BiH, I live in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23575	And in the Serbian Republic. Thank you very much. The guarantees that this will continue, in truth, I don't know what we're guaranteed, except that something will continue. Are we, are we now making some 92 mistakes, so we need to be comforted that we will be able to fix these mistakes in the future through this sequel. I only see a guarantee there, if things continue like this, that as the least numerous people in this country, we will disappear very soon. I therefore believe that no one has the right to give legitimacy to such a constitution, which converts the Croatian people, that is to say, into the position of an unequal people in relation to the other two constituent peoples in BiH. With this I call, all colleagues, especially representatives of the Croatian people, to try to stop such a negative trend per Croatian people and give us all a chance to get a new story on new changes to the Constitution. I repeat, I don't know who I am but in sequence, if I wasn't against constitutional change, but in this way for Bog's sake, I don't know who might support this, who's in the position I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23576	Thank you, Mr. Andrić. Correction of the false quote Mr Špirić, so the word is Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23577	Just one, I don't think he's going to help, but he's going to relax the situation a little bit. Republika Srpska is not equal to the Serbian Republic. In Republika Srpska, other peoples and citizens live, and I am to bring Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement to a pre-war level, with the will of citizens who want to return. So, I'm not putting a sign of equality between the Republika Srpska and the Serbian Republic. So that's not a sign of equality. I know that you can make those cartoons, but that sign of equality doesn't exist now, and whatever continues to run the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that sign of equality won't stand, that's the process of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23578	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Avdić. The wrong quote by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23579	counterpart Špirić just said he was born in the Federation and lives in Republika Srpska. To remind him he was born in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23580	It's... the continuity of change in this space. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to try again with this announcement, try, however, to reach a minimum of political consensus and to have this parliament gathered together and to vote for constitutional changes, not to be defeated and the winners and 93 to simply, as Dr Špirić says, turn this into a solemn act of adopting constitutional amendments to the BiH Constitution. If it wasn't just an entity-voting argument, which is quite detailedly elaborated and linked to the position of the Venice Commission, it could be a critical reference to other parts of the constitutional amendments, I note, here, I will single out only the Presidency, which so far has been a collective body, the Presidency of today's election, which is proposed to practically delegate its powers. What does that mean? It means that the Presidency has more power, and the choice is absolutely radically different. So, one MP at the House of Representatives with a hundred votes can tomorrow be the president of the BiH state for 18 months. The president has the right to organise a meeting of parliament, to appoint a Council of Ministers, to subsidise and re-administer the law, this Presidency, means absolutely one man and for the third time, unless the Council of Ministers, or composition, can disband Parliament and new elections. People, so we've given more power to the president, and we've simply delegated his choice, delegated his choice, because it's an indirect choice, etc. Calling Germany, France, please don't, I beg you, don't try to identify us simply with countries that are highly organized, where there are simply no such construction imperfections in their constitution. We also have a drastic situation the president will decide, and two vice presidents will vegetate, conditionally speaking, roughly. There are no joint sessions, conditionally said, will continue to be poured in the morning, and after the afternoon oil, persuasively speaking. So we have a less subtle work of the Presidency, we have one president, who has such powers, people who can be concerned. If he wants to obstruct, he can obstruct for 18 months that this charm can't breathe. So you can also laminate around, simply other ways and functions of the Presidency. I repeat once again, we have increased our powers, and we have delegated his way of choosing. But I won't anymore. It can simply be about other things, the light point of these amendments is the Council of Ministers, every honor, shared jurisdiction, we have two new ministries and there's not much bad to say and if we wanted critically, etc. So that's the bright point of this change, so these constitutional amendments to the BiH Constitution. What worries is that five days before it was applied, the simple essence of constitutional amendments in two simple segments, Dr. Kunić confirmed it. These were not technical changes in people, these were fundamental changes, fundamental changes, and in fundamental changes they said BiH's powers were defined by law. Please, the constitution of one country, which has its constitutional powers, is defined by law. So think about whether it's possible and how it's defined. The constitution is told by law. Which means a lot can simply be shown as a kind of model of obstruction and inability to function in the BiH state. A lot of things can just prove, but I'm not, I'm just giving up on another story. I suggest next. To try the parliamentary majority, six parliamentary leaders, political party leaders who participated in the agreements, accept a compromise on the following grounds. To accept that entity voting remains with shared competences between the BiH entity and state, the entity vote ends when it comes to state competencies. The jurisdiction of the state. It's one possible compromise that we can gather around. I repeat again. The entity's vote is not lifted, it remains with shared competences between the entity and the auction for the authority of the state, there is no entity vote. There's no entity vote. I've spoken to a little 94 colleagues, etc. for such a model of compromise can be sought through the conclusion of this House, that the Constitutional Court is restructured from the aspect of the way in which the elections are made, the passage to such a question of vital national interest and, thus, to relax the situation, to strengthen the veto, i.e. the institute of veto, or the issue of vital national interest, and this would be a possible compromise under one. I'm offering another alternative, and this is the American Embassy, and, with all due respect, the US administration, etc. In phase two, all the people here are worried, which could be, we understand differently. It is a suspension, a conditional canton in the Federation, a restructuring of the Federation, which is expensive, not sustainable financial etc. That is not the way to relax the situation in this House. I suggest that the second phase of constitutional change, it can also be a consensus, to define two or three items. 1. Review of BiH's territorial structure, 2nd. Local Self-Government, 3. A review of the entity's voting method and that is a possible deal. If this really isn't enough for some minimum compromise. If it's really gonna take and leave, the dictatorship of anyone, then it's really hard to vote for this. I ask you, then, to consider these two alternatives before and before, simply to give the vote the opportunity for clubs to meet and try to establish any form of consensus, that we all vote for these constitutional changes. I ask you once again not to leave this House tonight with a feeling, simply a loss of dignity, or someone to label as a winner, a winner, like this, like that, etc. I once again plead to try to find a consensus on constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23582	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Here, let Mrs Fatima Leho be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here's the end of this debate. We've heard a lot of arguments about and against today, we've heard the language of logic, the language of emotion, a lot of metaphors, but maybe that's good. I would like to stress that what is important, which is that for the first time in Parliament, as the Constitution provides for a mechanism and procedures, we are changing the Constitution of BiH. Let me just say it for a second. If we had changed that so far through constitutional committees, which was appointed by OHR presidents, and then the entity parliaments accepted it and changed the entity constitutions, then we had the practice of having Mr Tihić address the Constitutional Court, they followed it and eventually changed the Constitution, but by judicial means, not by parliamentary means. It's not common, but, well, we're a strange country, so we've done a lot of things, but now we've only done what the Constitution has told us for the first time, so we have to behave, and here we are able to do it today in a few minutes and decide when it comes to first reading, or constitutional principles. There's something I have to say to these leaders. There were always stories as citizens were grateful. I have to tell you, you've had a year's campaign, someone's been running for you, you're being followed by the big ones, and some are insignificant and small. It is therefore important that we respect each other, respect each MP, each one has his own dignity and his own voice and a small one, as you say, a meaningless party. Of course, those who, even from the international community, gave you 95 chances killed small parties and the development of democracy in BiH, just pushing national parties etc. You've had enough for 15 years, at least that's what I think. I would like that after the constitutional changes, we turn in a completely different direction, which is to improve that economy. What have we had so far? Practically on a simple plan, solving the life issues of our citizens. I would like to think about a new moment after this, which is that we will have a chance to develop economic democracy, not just political democracy, and it has come down just, let's go out and vote on some, national censuses, and we don't need you anymore. Economic democracy means work, economy, a new job. Who does that in this country? Nobody works, nobody works, not even the international community. I think this may be the limit, for citizens to actually feel this improvement, as my respected professor Kunić once said, can be better and weak, but here's to maybe be that improvement. The power of power is crucial. The will of the government in the institutions of the system is crucial. That's what we were talking about. Professor Sead Avdić says, there can be obstructions, there can be obstructions, so there is no guarantee that we will have constitutional norm, which guarantees a human right, it means nothing if we, as people who exercise power, do not use it. Let me remind you, in the Soviet Union in 1936, Staljin brought the most democratic constitution in the world of 39 human rights and freedoms and killed 13 million people. What does that mean? I mean, everything can get complicated. Everything can turn into another opposite. I think a minimum of some political will has been achieved and, if I have done what the leaders have done, I have condemned it in public, because I think it is a partyocracy, not a democracy, but in complex relations in political relations, as in BiH, it was the only possible thing. To some full democracy, to raise social awareness, to the economic democracy I'm talking about, raising the middle civil layer and raising civil BiH, there's still a long way to go. We're at the very beginning, and that's why I think we should give what's already been done. And get back to that. There were productions here as Professor Kunić and Gligorić submitted amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so here we received support. It doesn't matter now whether they're essential or they're technical, but they're essentially just improving something. They weren't negation or anything. It was not a negation and what the Party for BiH proposed. Neither is HDZ '90. I suggested years, but we have to make a difference between what you suggested, which is that there is no entity vote at the House of Representatives level. The opinion of the Venice Commission is clear, and that is why I think we have always appreciated the opinion of the Venice Commission. Now all of a sudden, that doesn't suit us, and let me remind you, when I signed in my own time that the Venice Commission is coming to BiH and to determine whether human rights are being violated in BiH, in terms of the Constitution, many have criticised me, which I will sign. I signed it because if human rights are violated, without distinction in BiH, the Venice Commission should come. I was good to you back then. Then you interpreted it, and now all of a sudden, we're only interpreting one part of what suits us. That's why I want to eventually join Professor Sead Avdić in that sense to find a consensus here at the House of Representatives, but not in the sense that he joins the Party for BiH and HDZ in '90. years, about that, but to say today, it's a reality. This part we can accept. That's progress. And we've had enough to start, my dear people. Don't be with the maximalistic goals, I think that might put everything at risk. Of course, if it puts everything into question, we will live in BiH with this decision or that decision. But I'm sure business has a good job and a bad job. We might do a bad job then. I therefore ask this consensus, to find this solution before the vote itself, to carry out certain consultations, 96 perhaps with the club chiefs and, after that, to approach the plea. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23584	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mrs Fatima Leho. Have Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare himself. Mrs. Leho, please, the replica of Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23585	Oh, this is Mr. Gligorić's last sentence of maximum demands. IGligorić just looking for the rights, about as many as you have. Is that maximum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23586	leho, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23587	Honored chairman, distinguished guests, fellow MPs, I think the amendments we have on the agenda today are a strong step forward in BiH's political reality for two reasons. First, we received for the first time in ten years a political agreement to open up political leaders, to open the process of upgrading the existing constitution. So, for the first time, we received a joint document, which, by means of certain laws, showed the will that the political situation had matured, that some of the things that have been overcome and that we have changed in a certain way, by passing certain laws, should be built into the Constitution. For this reason, because of this political maturity, I thank Mr. Čavić, Mr. Ivanić, Mr. Dodik, Mr. Tihić, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Čović, for the political maturity they have shown, because they have opened the process in BiH, which in the people is called "the house deal builds". Our joint house is BiH. We now have the Constitution that others have made for us, an appropriate political moment at which it was done, but today we have amendments, which are the result of political maturation and will within, and that is what encourages me as a man and I am glad that it has been done and that I have welcomed it in this House's assembly. The second reason I think we should plead to these amendments is that. When the gentlemen agreed and decided on these proposed changes, it is certain that they came from the art policy, which means that at this point they matured what was written and what was offered to us and what, and enables the integration process, in which BiH as a country of the region went both European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration, is what we are trying to do, why we all here have shown the political will to be for these processes. So this first addition of the Constitution, the amendment, offers what is necessary for this first process and for that reason, that's the second reason for me to vote for. Third, I must say that I am sorry that these amendments have become a means of election campaign, within party bickering, bogami and some personal bickering, not to say that some have replaced political visions with political illusions. Thank you very much. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23588	I thank Mrs. Leho. Next up is Mr. Izet Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23589	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, esteemed Excellency, I wish as an MP to give my opinion on this topic today, above all to say as an MP, I would much prefer that a few things have happened. That this material and the item of the agenda came when it was already, and that it was provided by the Constitution up to 75% of the MPs for this document. It seems to me to be an unfortunate solution or not enough that these six signatures in this House have cca 22 MPs, cause such a difficult debate and perhaps a difficult situation, and I would like to see the proposings find strength, with the others who, personally, do not have some big demands, find a compromise solution, so that the adoption of this act is, indeed, one solemn act, and that of the vast majority of this Parliament. So, I wish we didn't have here to say defeated or defeated. Another thing for today's debate, I propose one conclusion to be made, regardless of the amendments and, regardless of the solution, which is that the citizens and the peoples of this country deserve a normal European constitution on European principles, and I fear that more brakes are political representatives and facts than to say what the will of citizens is, so I would read the conclusion. I'd like to explain a little bit. Under point 1, I propose that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina invites representatives of the US administration and the European Union to continue the process of constitutional change. So, I want to see if this proposal will get support, but if it does, we really want to ask you for the interests of the citizens, the interests of the state, the interests of our commitment, to be persistent in this process. The second thing I'm saying is what I was about to say in the context of these situations, was, to say very affected by the messages, that if this isn't adopted, there's nothing from constitutional changes until 2010. Believe that the citizens of this country are quite punished with what happened in '92. - '95. Believe that what was received in '95. With the Dayton Agreement, when political leaders decided between killing and persecution or peace, a lot of injustice should be changed and what's on stage right now, I'm not going to say that there's no progress to be offered, but it's going to be such a painful job in this House that it's going to provide an ant's walk of progress towards the European path, so the second conclusion I'm proposing is to vote. We estimate that a favourable political situation is, therefore, we believe that citizens expect the peoples and citizens of BiH to get an effective constitution based on European principles and standards, which will eliminate the weaknesses of the Dayton Peace Agreement and allow BiH to become European and Euro-Atlantic integration as quickly as possible. We highly appreciate the US and European Union's efforts so far in the process of democratisation BiH, its construction in the modern European state. We appreciate the present moment favourable to a significant step in this process. I, therefore, propose that this conclusion be multiplied, divided by MPs and put to the vote, that, at the very least, that, no matter what the results, we call for support and to be persistent in the process, so as long as it lasts for a year, two, five, but for citizens to get a normal European constitution. 98 I could cite a series of weaknesses in the situation so far offered, of course, that would cause certain lines and further delay in the debate, but essentially I believe that BiH citizens deserve much more than is now offered and I believe that if they were to vote freely in this parliament, for, here's the amendment to abolish constitutional, entity voting, that it would be at least 70% of the MPs in favour. So, the point is that my parliamentarians or the future phase when it does, it would be good to hold a parliamentary debate before the final solution. To get me to say some pulse of parliamentarians, who decide this. Perhaps that stage has now been used to make it much easier to welcome a final statement on the amendments and, of course, that the compromise, I have always been in favour of compromise, should ask, when at least it comes to the Constitution, to be close to 100% of the support, so now it should be appreciated what the step is. But this most external common holder and pace should, we should say know and predict, examine and determine. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23590	Thank you, Mr. Hadžić. Replica Mr. Špirić. Let Mr. Sipović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23591	I'll just take a minute. I thought Mr. Hadžić was trying to help us. So this first conclusion that we are asking the international community, from the US, from the European Commission, is really bidding with the better will of international organisations, which, apparently, have shown more will than all of us combined. Well, you have a letter that's been shared that says the United States at this historic moment is with BiH and will continue to work without conditions in the next stages and, now, we certainly need a conclusion in which we express and invite them to do so. I mean, by safeguarding our dignity, we must safeguard the dignity of the friends of this country, who have been friends of hers since they've been here and we need to preserve them in a way. This debate is coming to an end. We'll see what the result will be, but I think the only conclusion from this debate today will be whether we adopted or not. Don't let us send false hopes to anyone now. So this is the phase of the amendment to the BiH Constitution. As far as we're aware and responsible, we'll be making so much progress in the next stages. As far as we're prepared for ourselves, we're going to need less friends who are following this debate here today. Are we forbidden to sit down after this phase tomorrow immediately? Has anyone been banned? Does it say in one amendment that it's forbidden? It doesn't say. Please keep the dignity of the people who helped us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23592	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, but no one forbids us to accept things today. I'm also obliged to say here in front of the House we have a chance so everyone and here is real like nothing's going on all day, but, well, that's the right of each of the MPs. The word has Mr. Sipović. Let Mr. Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23593	Dear gentlemen, 99 Since on many occasions I have tried very well on purpose to make a contribution to suggestions and replicas and to relax this debate over a very important document. I will join all those who support amendments from the political aspect and try to throw the focus on the legal aspect of the proposed amendments. So I don't repeat myself and be specific pragmatic. Thank you to an esteemed colleague, Križanović Jozo, who I have irritated here when I read the precise provision concerning entity voting, which he rightly pointed out and said and supported my suggestion not to make a bauk out of this entity vote, but, in fact, two-thirds of the entity is asked to vote against a decision. What does that mean? Well, it's in such a complex state with a multiethnic state of three constituent nations quite logically. Well, really, which is the law, which would not accept three peoples in this House, which was also said by political leaders when they were embezzling this. Gentlemen, I'm a little surprised, however, by the American administration, along with our experts and their legal experts, however, they installed, you talked and didn't talk about going item by item, very high-quality stuff and amendments, and it's not true that rhetoric is political, which says, here is all the blockade, here is all the blockage. Let's start with a few essential amendments, so I said veto isn't as big a bauk as they say. Second amendments. In amendment and original jurisdiction. Please, a full shot of the proposed amendments, as requested by the European Union and the US administration. A country, a country with these three or four amendments, starting each country, is certainly 40 to 50% in a stronger position to meet these requirements. Next, not to elaborate. Please, I'll say something. There was a fellow discussion here which, I see, a little relaxing some MPs when they get a little into trouble, essentially the amendments, and they would support the amendments, so counterpart Avdić says, the presidential system is back-up or progress. Please, in such a complex state, we have moved from the presidential system to the parliamentary system. Practically, a central figure and a central organ the largest organ, this is this home. He as well as in many European countries. Therefore, delegating the president may have been a significant improvement, because look, when members of the presidency were elected by entity principles, with discrimination from different two entities, then the Venice Commission said human rights were violated so that no Srbin could compete to be from the Federation and Bošnjak and Hrvat from RS. Please, now with this new constitution, which is very much thanked, full of the mouth of the rhetoric on human rights, this constitution allows every candidate for the president and two vice presidents to be in the parliamentary procedure. So, please, Mr. Zorić, if you can, I've been listening and I didn't want to come in. I think you're discussing it. If you intend to de-concentrate me, I would ask you to hold on to the Rules of Procedure and turn a member, stick to the provisions of Article 58. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23594	I ask my colleagues to listen to a colleague, and I ask Mr. Sipović to frame his discussion at the agreed time for discussion. Go ahead, go ahead. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23595	Mr. Chairman, if it is, gentlemen, dear, I see here that I feel certain tensions of MPs, who have no arguments, only bring out political empty rhetoric, and when I try to put an item per item, to deny them, then they get so inappropriately and try to defocus me. I have here an honorable intention as an MP and as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has proposed these amendments, which I have supported, to help this Parliament as a man and to try to clarify for those who, perhaps, should vote to support these amendments. Please, says the gentleman, the House of the Peoples is abolished and represents only as one ordinary commission. Dear colleagues and colleagues who you are reacting to are not correct, read the House's jurisdiction provision, and say the House is considering all the laws that Parliament adopts and assesses whether the vital national interest is injured. It proposes, participates in the selection of members of the Bureau, i.e. the president and two vice-presidents and moves the vital national interest and adopts the amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, it is not an argument for this finding. Please, what's going on? The home of the people, right now, has a vital impact on the election of presidents and two vice presidents, except here it's very well said. And, thirdly, there are some total blockages being threatened here. So I heard here, no matter what we run, there's a blockage stopped right now. Please, for the election of the President, or the Government, Council of Ministers or Prime Ministers, this is precisely the way of deblockation in these constitutional provisions. If he says, for the first time, the president proposes, with consultations with political parties, and if he does not pass at Parliament in the second phase, he can propose another MP, another candidate, with the House of Representatives being able to propose his candidate or more candidates. So that's where the deblockation is. There's a decline in the possibility of a blockade. And, for example, the finding that the House will disband unless three attempts to elect the president of the state and two vice-presidents and prime minister of government. Well, normally, everywhere in a civilized world a home is disbanded by law, because the parliamentary majority that won the elections is not politically mature or capable of answering the moment and it is quite normally embedded in a civilised relationship. And finally, I mean, please, there's another step, but nobody notices. He won't discuss it on that background. Where the progress of this and in the spirit of the protection of rights, the fundamental human rights contained in the European Charter referred to in Article 2. The Constitution, which helped us the American administration with its experts and adapted something similar to a very passing, very high-quality acceptable constitution, from a sociological aspect. So, with the power ratio, political and other conditions is BiH's international political position. Gentlemen will not respect that, and in the legal theory of constitutional matter, it is treated. To propose some fictions, which do not have a real basis for real reality and the parliamentary majority, it is a simple fiction and thus are constitutionally-legally said to be a fictitious constitution and such a constitution would definitely not be able to function. What has been offered, and we really thank the Amreic administration and Mr Ambassador personally, how much energy he has made, the effort he has made to show us the way to civilization, to Europe and to support the European Parliament and the President of the Commission, so it has a conscious MP, who is acting responsible after these letters and Brns' undersecretary and this president, I don't know what else we need to do with that aspect. I am fully politically aware and I 101 respect a different rhetoric and different thinking and democracy, but please, I can't possibly understand, I can't understand the logic that someone is trying to convince me that two more than two is not four but six or seven. It falls every logic and I can't tie it up, and here I am in a situation where arguments and facts can't stand up to certain ballistic rhetoric. You know, I'm very good at rhetorical talk, that someone likes something and is running an election campaign, but that's not my intention, because I'm a very responsible MP and I'm just saying for the sake of the public, I'm one of the MPs who came here three months ago. I have volunteer status here, and I'm not a professional, but I do this job honestly and honestly. And finally let me say, please, let me finish and I won't discuss this again. I think it's us, here's what I say in front of the public right now. If we had tried an item per item to read and we had started these amendments, I think that in the relaxing atmosphere and those people who were apriors who were exclusively against the adoption of these proposed amendments would have become slowly convinced of the arguments. However, when certain political options and MPs from some political options now speak, as these leaders, six leaders, were at the beginning of eight, who proposed to join these processes and mediator, the US ambassador, two had already given up, and those who have now suggested that they participated actively in this process might have some amendments agreed and relaxed. I mean, in the end, I'm only interested in one thing. I am a man by vocality, and I believe that this constitution is tailored to the citizens of BiH and in the interest of the attractive, and I really do not agree that it puts any people in an unequal position, and especially here I would not raise my hand for such a constitution that would put the Croatian people in an unequal position. That is not true, because they have all the mechanisms well described here, to protect the vital national interest, and especially the role of the Constitutional Court, and now we have members of the Constitutional Court elected by the Presidency, not the President of the European Court of Human Rights, and that is progress, and that is the point, when international factors gave us the chance to decide for ourselves what my distinguished colleague Fatima said. I was delighted with what level of political mature thinking and calling on all other MPs, and I call on all MPs to, indeed, in the candlelight atmosphere today show citizens that we are mature MPs, and to give to the European Union and the US government that we are ready to partner for Europe and Euro-Atlantic integration. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23596	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. We have two replicas Mr Zorić and Mr Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23597	I heard here from fellow Sipović that he is a volunteer and he then concluded that he is a volunteer who does his job with honor and integrity. Does this mean that those who are here professionally hired not to do their job with honor and integrity? What a note that is, please. I work professionally here, and it's not three months, but it's three and a half years ago, and before that, I'm doing my job with honor and honesty. Do we all want to stand up here and 102 say how we do our job? Let him stand up who does his job dishonestly and dishonestly, and see if anyone gets up. So what are you guys talking about here? Is that Zlatko Lagumdžija's rhetoric?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23598	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Sead Avdić, then Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23599	He has the advantage of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23600	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23601	Let me just say I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23602	Thank you very much. These are small steps for Parliament, but large ones for constitutional change. Mr. Sead Avdć. Here's Mr. Sipovic's replica. But Mr. Avdić, you've had a replica before, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23603	Which I was directly called. Well, I have no intention of answering your findings. I didn't say that MPs who are professionally represented, here employed not to do their job with honor. I just want to, I just wanted to say to a respected colleague my one willingness, my one enthusiasm and my honesty to help these constitutional changes as a volunteer and, responsibly, to do my task entrusted to me in front of my political party of the SDA and to take an oath. And I didn't want to, I got rich here with discussions of my distinguished fellow MPs. Sir, I have no intention of disabling anyone in terms of these, I just want to call everyone on purpose and respect and influence my own discussion on the improvement of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23604	I thank Mr. Sipović. Replica Mr. Avdić. Let Mr. Živković and I no longer report for discussion. Mr. Jovanović, I don't have you, and I'll make a note.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry I have to replicate because Mr. Sipović's exposure best shows how concentrated he is when he simply tries with an empty story without covering to defend certain things, or comment on other discussions. He probably did not read what he said about the powers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's president, a man elected from the Parliamentary Assembly and the House of Representatives and a man who is parliamentary. The MP becomes president and this president can disband Parliament. So where is it in which country? Did you read this? The man, the president of the state, is representing the state, signing and declaring the laws. It appoints and resolves the envoys in accordance with the state law. It shall sign international agreements in accordance with national law, etc. etc. These are the powers that today's Presidency doesn't have. Three men. And that's what one man gets, one man who's an emissary from this house. And you're defending me and trying to simply replicate and explain the justification of this solution. That he was directly elected, all honours, let the nations choose in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and let them have all the legitimacy. And this is what delegates in the way of the election these powers that are out of their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23606	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23607	I'm a respected colleague of Avdić, and I appreciate you very much, but apparently, you haven't understood my one explanation. And here we have, in constitutional law we have more systems. We have moved from the presidential system to a parliamentary one where Parliament leads the main word. And please, an example of such a constitution, here is the neighbouring state of Italy. Parliament elects both the president of the state and the election and the Prime Minister. So, therefore, I'll tell you what better solutions are. Better solutions are this parliamentary, this present one that we have received because Parliament can demand responsibility from the president and two vice-presidents for the conduct of their functions. He can even start an initiative for their shift if they don't do their job. And now in this situation, they couldn't do it by this constitution, because they were directly elected, so they could do some things. And look, there was a presidential system back then. Please, under this system is a presidential system where the Presidency is the holder of the executive power, and the Council of Ministers has become the authority of the Presidency. He couldn't even suggest, he couldn't propose a budget. It is therefore a qualitative shift in such a complex multiethnic state that Parliament and MPs are unnecessarily elected and asked someone why the MP should do so. So that MP who gets the legitimacy of the electoral yen, why can't he run for both the president and the prime minister of the government, or resign to his office. I think this is the President's choice and it's much more appropriate for our terms and time will show that this is a much better solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23608	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. The word is Mr. Živković. Let Mr. Jovanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23609	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of today's amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina took place on the first floor of the Regional Conference, the First Regional Conference in South East Europe on Population and Development, hosted by our group on population and development. 104 I apologize for not being able to attend the debate from the beginning to the end so that I was partly at this session and honestly tell you maybe it's better that I wasn't at the full debate because I was tempted to report very often to the replica. There's a lot being said here today and what's standing here, but it seems to me a lot more and what doesn't stand. And I think that Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the exam today, it's on the exam and in front of the international community, in front of the representatives who are sitting here and which are part of what I would say today's session, perhaps in other parliaments in Europe that could not be the case. And we are also on trial before the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether we will show both the international community and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are able to bring amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and show that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country capable of living without the tutorship of the international community and their active presence here in the country. I am afraid that today's debate did not give them the right to think so, although before that we had round tables and plenary conferences on the role of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in today's debate, it seems to me that we have not shown that we are really ready to take over Bosnia and Herzegovina in our own hands. Also, I wanted to answer and tell those who mentioned the people and the entity from which I came that it is not right for me to tell them that we are putting salt on food, that I want to be here and from this place to say that it is not my wish, that it is probably not my people's wish, that it is certainly not those in the SNSD Club, because we honestly think that the problem that weighs you is not a problem called Republika Srpska, but it is a problem called the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have given you our hand and we have said that in the next amendment to the Constitution we will actively advocate and not run away from that change, but we also want to say that what the Venice Commission said cannot be taken only part by piece, but it must also be read that according to the Venice Commission, any solution that implies the abolition of two entities acts unrealisticly in the medium term perspective. Also, the most realistic option for such a reform that would also be in line with the general European trends would be to make legislative competences within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina a concept.....level. That's what the Venice Commission also says in this document. The evolution of these constitutional changes wasn't since yesterday. Those who say the public hearing was yesterday do not remember that these public debates were from five years ago, even more. It is not known how many NGOs, international organisations, MPs' clubs, MPs and groups themselves have come forward with their proposals for the Constitution. It seems to me that every corner of this House hides someone under his jacket has a version of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we're going to talk that way, we're going to find a lot more where we disagree. But I'm talking and I want to talk about what we agree on and what we can agree on. I think that, given that there have been many stories in Republika Srpska that these changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been given to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that Republika Srpska has not lost and that changes to the Constitution for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the ordinary citizen mean a more functional government and a European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23610	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Jovanović has been before. You won't be angry. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23611	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, listening to so far's discussions may give us the impression that we from Republika Srpska should be overly satisfied with the proposal for constitutional amendments. But if we look at the current constitution and what is proposed, it is clear that only Republika Srpska makes concessions. Here, I'll be specific. Republika Srpska has waived the election of delegates to the House of Peoples from entities. She gave up the election of an entity presidency member. A large number of competencies have been transferred from Republika Srpska to Bosnia and Herzegovina level. In a way, she also agreed to extend the Council of Ministers. So these are all concessions from Republika Srpska. And my recommendation to some future negotiators who are talking about another phase is that in future those who negotiate take care of whether and how much concessions they make. What I also want to say and it seems to me that for the first time the international community has said it will not impose constitutional amendments. And for the first time, she said she would accept those, those solutions agreed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has probably disappointed many here because we have had experience so far that everything they want to do with the help of the international community and realize. So let me say if there's anything wrong with all of this, I say for the first time the international community has said they're not going to impose anything, but that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina agree. And finally, I don't know if it's a mistake, whether it's not seen, means specifically when we talk about principles, I don't know if it's accidentally or intentionally omitted when it comes to the extraordinary calling of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers has been dropped. I thought it was agreed at the political party's re-representation, but because of that, I did not submit the amendment, but it is said there means who can call for an extraordinary session of the Assembly, so it stands out in the amendments that the president of the Council of Ministers can do so, and the agreement also means the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers, and there is no Council of Ministers in the amendments. Also, in my opinion, there is an unclear provision that says that, Amendment III, that the Parliamentary Assembly can launch an initiative to vote for mistrust to the president and vice presidents, but for everyone. I don't think that's clearly defined. Maybe there'll be other acts to define later. Perhaps by election law, or by the Rules of Procedure, but means simply by this one MP can launch an initiative to launch an initiative means to replace the president and vice president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23612	I thank Mr. Jovanović. The replica was reported by the chairman of the dom gospodin Raguž, and may Mr. Mladen Potočnik prepare if there is no reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23613	Oh, here's a little short. I haven't replicated anyone, I don't mean anything particularly to Mr. Jovanović, but I think this assessment that Republika Srpska has given up its powers, I mean absolutely can't stand the argument because it has only transferred those powers to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina within which you have the full possibility of controlling 106 legislative executive and any other process in a much wider space, and we should all do so in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I can't see, God forbid we're all in the same situation to give authority to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we can make legitimate and legal and equal decisions about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23614	I thank the Chairman of the House. The word is Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23615	Mr. Chairman of colleagues and colleagues, present guests, I will vote against these amendments for the next two reasons. The first reason is, as you know, I gave the amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina more than four months ago, which is four times on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, let's say ignored or put aside, unlike these amendments that went in a quick procedure. Second. The change of the Constitution must be seen, above all, from an organisational economic point of view because it is the essence of every constitution of territorial and functional order. As long as we come out of Bosnia and Herzegovina here from the point of view of Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat or entities, we will not take a step forward. Mr. Chairman, it would be nice for you to listen. Secondly, this country's problem is the people of this country's problem. And we're dealing with nonessential things. The essential things are, I repeat, an organisation of a state that must be a citizen service and must be in the interest of a Bosnia and Herzegovina man. Unfortunately, mine are determined not for these amendments, but for changes that will really bring good to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23616	I thank Mr. Mladen Potočnik. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić, the second vice president requests a break 10 minutes before his statement. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. So at 7 and 15, we're going to proceed with the plea. Since Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a break, he's asking for a word to explain. [[PAUZA]] We've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23617	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate is closed and the vote has to be approached, I simply asked for a 10-minute break with the clubs to see how the situation stands and since, please, everything will be known very soon. So since this was a discussion of principles, and my proposal is, therefore, after these consultations I had with the clubs to declare our principles, not to prejudge what is going to happen on the amendments that have been submitted. So there's a debate going on and every amendment is being paid attention. And that's why that was the reason for the break. 107 So the reason for the break was to look for a solution and here I think if it can relax relations to say the principles to get into phase two and talk about the amendments here we are finally ready, it is also our obligation, so it is our obligation to declare ourselves separately in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23618	Here's a word, first Mr. Belkić answered, and then Mr. Elvir Jahić, then Mr. Sead Avdić. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23619	Here I was going to ask the question, but apparently after Nicola's move that I can practically only conclude that the Proposer absolutely has no views on the amendments that have been tabled, nor considers it necessary to comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23620	Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23621	The SDA Club is requesting a 30-minute break for further consultations.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23622	At the request of the SDA Club, I'm setting a 30-minute break. Mr. Elvir Jahić asked for, excuse me, on behalf of the SDA Club. [[PAUZA]] Would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23623	I just wanted to explain that the reason for this break requested by the SDA Club is to make sure that there are additional consultations in the sense that we really do make the difference between the principles that we now have to vote for and the amendment. So we don't connect it together. Here in this context, we have done these consultations and we appeal that in this way there is a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23624	Before I give my word to Mr Špirić, I think today there was a lot of goodwill and suggestions that were presented to the Bosnian Herzegovic public. There's no reaction yet, so here we are patiently waiting. I think it's time, as far as the debate is concerned, it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23625	Who are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23626	We're not waiting for anyone. Here's my word to Mr. Špirić now. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23627	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, chairman of the presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, distinguished guests. I think that every break that is sought with the aim of finding a solution and compromise is on the line of battle for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. And that's why I think we should show, no matter what we've had today, we've had exhaustive debates, arguments for and against, and I don't think, of course, that those who think differently from me are less important, but I don't think we should save time and effort. No need to save any pauses and additional consultations to make this first step. I just can't believe we won't, so this session is almost safe for me historically, to get 2/3 of the most of these amendments, or to fall. Only now do we have to appreciate what's better for the citizens, what's better for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's better if the amendments are adopted. I just can't believe someone's bringing in an amendment to principles. And that is why my request is that we vote on principles and open a debate on amendments for which many MPs who put them on time think they mean improving the text of the law. So, I wouldn't want this story and all the hard work that's been put to waste because someone's already made their own decision to vote against it. That is why I think it is worth it to all those who have any dilemma about how these constitutional amendments will continue, who will be conversing on these constitutional amendments. As far as I'm concerned, you can talk about everything tomorrow – it's not forbidden. What's legitimate is it gets 2/3 of the majority. But I ask you, so before we enter the decision-making phase of principles, to separate and what is our business obligation. Principles are one thing, amendments are another. If someone slows down the full principles, they should clearly say that the principles don't suit him, that this is a waste of time, that it's not a petrified measure, and that we know it. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't finish this job in a way that the constitutional amendments are adopted that we're really going to wait for a while, not at the bottom of the ladder, but the question is whether the outstretched hand that's clearly provided by Brisel today from Washington will be in the future towards any of us. And it doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter if any of us stay in political life. It's important and the worst thing for this country is that we've contaminated politically, not decontamination. For sending messages that these amendments are not a step forward. As far as I'm concerned, my attitude is clear. But I'm asking if anyone thinks they need to talk to me, to my club, to other clubs, to use this night for it. It won't be long, believe me, if someone thinks there's going to be pressure so there's going to be bigger concessions, that this is formally done, I want to convince you that it won't be a more favourable opportunity for a long time to get to the first step. I would like my assessment to be bad and that those who think that tomorrow will come honey and milk to give it to citizens by voting against constitutional amendments that Nikola Špirić will have to apologize to the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina from this pay phone. I don't take it personally. I've shown it countless times so far. So please, if there's any need to take a break, don't save time and energy and health. That's what we're supposed to do. If there is a sufficient number of those who have sworn that they cannot go beyond the scope of this agreement to fail and we need to know, or not to fail, that they are not adopted. But I'm asking you not to look for phase two before phase one. The biggest disgrace would be for this parliament if principles were not adopted. That we don't talk about amendments. We'll talk about them in phase two. So please think one more time before we make a statement about principles. Thank you very much. Don't mind me. Much has been invested in this, even though many think it was hidden from the public, there were 109 NGOs, professional associations. No one was forbidden. I think the public was informed as much as they wanted the public to talk, but I beg you as colleagues, don't save effort, energy and time. Don't make a quick decision. It's the easiest thing to do right now if someone counted that they have, I don't know how many, or for passing or for falling. If I knew they had 2/3 right now, I'd be asking for the consent of at least one or two more MPs. So if we think we can do it in one dialogue, if someone has the fear of what they're talking about, here's what I'm calling for us to sit down, take another break and talk about it before we say it. That's my suggestion. You don't have to respect him, of course, but here I call you one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23628	Thank you, Nikola. We have been calling all day in the debate and we are calling on to continue to respect the arguments and to get out of this all stronger. But there is still no relevant response to any amendment that has been submitted. Mr. Nijaz Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23629	Well, I've been betting with my colleagues a little while ago, either Špirić or someone's gonna be looking for another break, and then one more, and we're probably gonna move on tomorrow, and then the powers and that. If we're going to go to exhaustion, recruiting people, twisting hands, saying this casually, all the arguments here are being made. Špirić don't believe in you. You just said in the towers very well-checked, if the principles go through, we'll reject all amendments. So, let's say by procedure it's the first thing we can say about principles. There's no need to reconsider. Whoever's gonna be in, you'd like that, and I'd like the opposite. What that love of yours means, will, etc. You're a messenger like me, so let's act democratically nice, give it to Boš, let the democratic will pass. Democracy is often cruel. It's not always justice, but all one thing. We have a Rules of Procedure, we have a way of deciding. We've been deciding all day, if we're going to take breaks, we can do it by dawn. Now our club's gonna take a break, so every five minutes we're gonna be looking for a new break. Not then, we can do it for a month, but all in any way you are, but I'm taking one chance to express one sharp self personally, not in the name of the club, but as an MP of this House, it concerns a precedent. I know something about this parliamentary democracy. I think in the history of European modern parliamentary democracy, there has never been a case like this, as we have today. Let's say, ambassador, ambassador of the world's greatest power, the honorable Mr. Meklehejn, is there all day long, and we're glad that he came here to see how we do it, but that every break, there's a dribble, lobbying, processing of certain MPs. That, probably in the modern history of democracy, we don't record it, even if it's big America. A great American democracy, a truly great American democracy, is ashamed of it. This has been a shame to this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23630	Please, Mr. Duraković, we're talking about us. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23631	Please, it's my protest and it shames the American diplomacy itself. I don't know if it's appropriate for us to wait for every break to see if Mr. McLeain can process anyone or wait for you from various clubs to convince him to vote the other way around. If it's democracy, then I don't know. Let's see that you finally put that chair on the vote to vote on principles, however democratic it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23632	We have two replicas. Mr. Špirić and Mr. Džaferović. I beg your pardon, Mr. Špirić. I, today, have made every effort with your help, to hold a level of debate on everything here and, I really think that we ourselves need to look into our eyes and that responsibility is on us and I ask you to focus on us, on Parliament, on amendments, on principles and thus bring this day to an end. I think you have to appreciate this. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23633	Dear colleague Duraković, I have no real intention or need to lobby anyone. This is what my attitude is all about. He's publicly spoken and as far as colleagues from different clubs are concerned, there's no need for me to lobby them. They're for this. I'm sorry you don't believe me. So I'm sorry. My goal is to make sure through dialogue that the necessary level of trust can be achieved. If you have that number of MPs who don't trust me, there's no problem. There's no problem if the Federation doesn't have a two-thirds majority to change the constitution. But I'm telling you again that you're gonna need to sit down together and talk about this, about this. The question arises whether we will get that critical political option of the will that you expect. You don't trust me. Here's my real okay. Do you trust others? But without trust, without a two-thirds majority, there's almost no change. I can't understand that someone's looking forward to it. I agree that they can have two diametrically opposite views. I don't think the right is more legitimate than yours, but what I can't believe is that after 10 years of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the first attempt at a deal is a failure. That's what I can't believe. I want you to enjoy it, but I'm not convinced that the public will benefit from it. I'm not convinced, as you're probably not convinced that my story will bring better. And that's where we're totally different. But, you see, I have no reason to lobby anyone. I have to talk. But I have a feeling that's what the other side does. And I have that feeling. I have no need, except in one human dialogue to talk to an ambassador who is also a man like everyone else in the EU who follows this process and is not concerned about themselves. Nothing will happen to America and the EU to ruin this. So nothing will happen to them. We'll pay that price. They came here to say hey, we're stuck in phase two. What's going to be the second phase? Political consensus as first. If in phase two we convince each other that what we couldn't do in the first phase goes through, okay. If we don't convince him it won't be prescribed as in the pharmacy. If someone is looking forward to not voting for this influence on the international community, to change Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal arrangements, I fear we are mistaken. 111 Therefore I ask you to believe me, for I am not here to cultivate mistrust, but trust. I trust you. And I want to, let's talk about everything for an hour, after a break, after a vote, after this goes down in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23634	Thank you Mr. Džaferović has asked for it before. It's a replica question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23635	My colleagues at the club ask me if the debate was reopened and they would apply for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23636	Yeah. Okay, Mr. Duraković's replica. Here we are looking for solutions, you've all said, you're all calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23637	I'm the same for solutions and compromise fellow Špirić, and you don't need to repeat a hundred times to convince me and someone to convince you, neither can I convince you nor you convince me. It's democracy. I have one attitude, you two, my Bog. Parliament is here to discuss. I don't see anything wrong, absolutely nothing, but you can't deny people the right to think differently. You're surprised, I'm surprised why these people, and I'm surprised at you, too, because you're up for something that's wrong. I mean, here we are in the same starting positions. So I see no reason, no reason for any lifting or for any emotional charge, let's simply act democraticly, in accordance with parliamentary procedure. On the agenda we've discussed, we've come to vote on the principles of who's against and I don't see what's ugly, what's problematic, what's wrong. If anyone thinks what's better, what's worse, I'm not sure, but all of it. Whatever option passes, it will be democratically voted. Therefore, do not act like little children. I think you're gonna do this, you're gonna do that. My Bog, do we have the right to our own, autonomous, political stance? I have, I don't want to impose on anyone else. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23638	Thank you. The word was sought by Mr. Džaferović and I think that after that, there is really no need for further discussion. I'm all alone. No, Mr. Džaferović was before you. You want to continue the debate, I'm ready to work day and night. All right, here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23639	Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't be surprised that this is the way the debate is going on about changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we've waited eleven, ten and a half years for this opportunity here and we shouldn't allow ourselves to fail so easily. Because when there's going to be a second chance Bog knows. I don't know right now and I thank all those who helped us get into this situation to discuss amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thank Bog that 112 to this day is US Ambassador Mr. Duraković, but not only he is present, this is a historic moment for BiH. This is where the ambassador of the European Union and the doen of the diplomatic crust and many other ambassadors are present, let them not be angry that I will not mention the names of the Council of Ministers, and here we have members of the Presidency who, by the way, rarely come here to Parliament. So there's no exception to that. I thank the U.S. Embassy for mediating, and for that, it is ultimately present here. It's not about any exhaustion, it's not about any fatigue, I don't want to exhaust anyone and bother anyone. I just want to point out the seriousness of the moment BiH is in. For the first time, we have guarantees from the international community that we can go one way, we can go through one process and before it decides to vote on the principles, I want to say that we all think hard when it comes to principles. The principles are one thing, the amendments are, of course, the other. One is the procedure for principles, the other is the procedure for amendments. I think it would be a great sin towards BiH if we were to strike this thing against my principles right now. I therefore support, here, this and the atypical vision, as it is called, the debate, that we simply all think again, to consider the principles, the proposals, which have been heard here and not to destroy something that is certainly good for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23640	Thank you very much. Was it a replica or a debate? Replica Duraković, then the debate of Lagumdžija. Just the time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23641	I'm really sorry for the esteemed reunion. I won't speak for a minute. Appreciated for taking a few words today, but I have to when I'm called. Mr. Džaferović, it is my honor, too, to be very honored to have a diplomatic court here and I have nothing against it. It is an honor both to this parliament and to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I didn't question that. I am honored that the world's greatest force is here and that it is alive interested in what we are doing and deciding, but I have warned that this presence is not represented in a way that in the times of these sessions that have been frequented, lobbying, persuading, etc. You yourself are here to maltlet and convince, here are the hours of Mr. Žilić, who has shown a predetermined disagreement. Is that democracy? You take him to clubs, you bring people from the top of the party, you tell stories, and you say he doesn't have any MPs, he does. That's what we all see here, it's quite transparent. So don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. I repeat, it is my great honor as an MP and as a Bosanac and a Hercegovac, that these gentlemen and our Excellencys are here and no one has questioned it. So be specific when you're imputing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23642	All right, Nijaze. Short Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23643	I'm glad Mr. Duraković that you've corrected yourself in this re-enactment, but here's a stenogram and look what you've said before, before I discussed here at this pay phone just now, and I'm glad you think so about the presence of 113 diplomatic crusts, distinguished Excellencys, ambassadors, and so, of course, I'm glad you think so, too. As for Mr. Mehmed Žilić, Mehmed Žilić and I are friends and he is a member of my party and you will not talk to me or anyone else when I talk to the members of my club and what I will talk to the members of my club, and tell me if I went into your club and talked to anyone from your club, here you are, right now in public, and you will not deny me that right. I'm going to talk to my club members as much as I think I need to talk, and that's democracy, and it's not a democracy that you're preventing me from talking to my own party with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23644	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23645	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's just a correction. What I'm saying now was actually raising Mr. Duraković's hand on the line, so I didn't answer for the debate. I think it's a good thing this opened up like this, because obviously some things need to be cleared up. It's too big a thing to just go into the fog, as it looks like some people want to take the whole country into the fog. It's a good thing that colleague Duraković suggested and told us that he bet someone would take a break and win a bet. There'll be a break. Niaz, you won the bet, if you bet, and I bet you'd turn down the principles, you who advocate the amendments. I bet you'll reject the principles and practically bring down the possibility of talking about amendments at all, even Seju Avdić, the wrong thing for you to say, let people see what we're going to do with these amendments, when you're already talking about what you were doing in the hallway, Avdić came out with the amendment, so there's a piece of shit on him, so the whole hallway heard you there. It wasn't by the clubs that they were towers. You should talk a little bit about these amendments, but, well, I don't have to defend him, he'll defend himself better, in the end he defended himself very successfully from me, and now you're defending him, as far as he came. What I'm saying is, Mr. Chairman, let's get this straight, let's at least let the clubs come out here. Are we, who talk so much about amendments, about what's been offered here, are we actually going to stop our own amendments from coming before this Parliament, by being against the principles, and we're full of mouths that everything is fine, just one little amendment and then counting down there as much as you have, whether you have enough to break the principles and not counting on whether you have to pass your amendments? You out there counting down the hall had enough of you to break the principles. Yes, my good Zoriću, I count as much as you do. What's most tragic is that you and I know well that your story of amendments to amendments is a story for little children. You want to bring this down in principle and then you can't talk about any amendments at all. And, most tragically, in one voice there or here. Now I'm asking you, is that good, one big thing to get something that's going on or down in principle? Is that a good thing? I don't think so. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23646	Don't throw it away, let Mr. Lagumdžija finish. Please. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23647	I don't think Mrs. Ružo is correct in hiding behind one amendment, after which everything will be fine, and trying to bring this down already on the very principles and not lying, say fine we're against any principles. There's no problem. Against the principle that changes are being made, and this story of amendments to entity voting. It's a story for little kids. We want to take this down while it's a little bit, God forbid it grows, it could be a problem. Mr. Raguž, since you've been listening to others, it looks like I need to look a little unarticulated, so you'll let me go then.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23648	No, I've always let you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23649	You look like as soon as someone starts bowing, you say it's okay to let him go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23650	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23651	As for the ambassadors who are here. I think all the masks are down, it's perfect what it's all about. There are ambassadors all day long and the European Union and Turkey and the chairman of the European Union all who were there and you wanted guarantees from these people, the guarantee of their governments, their countries, and now there is a problem with being there, and you, Mr. Chairman, as chairman of the Commission for External Relations, I am surprised that you have not interrupted Mr. Duraković, NOT now will you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23652	I warned Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23653	After he told it all. Well, it's a miracle that people were, you can tell they were diplomats, otherwise every single one of you would have come out of here. So now it's not like we don't need guarantees anymore, but we need to get people out of here. First we'll drive their ambassadors away, then we'll get rid of their guarantees and then we'll be alone here. Just to see who's gonna turn off the light, so we're all alone. Unfortunately, this is sad, this is a tragedy for us to lie here. To lie here and tell the story of the amendments, we actually want someone to turn off our light and that those guarantees for days we've been looking for guarantees, and now that the guarantees have come, now it's goodbye, it's turning off the light, from where here. That's why, Mr. Martina, here I was asking, let Nijaz correct me, if I didn't ask. Rich Nijaze, did you tell you I'm not sure what's better or worse, now, repeat the man, say it. I ask him, Nijaze the Rich is whether you're really not sure what's better than what's worse, so when you're not sure, so why don't you give the principles, which you don't keep when you're not sure, no, I'm not sure whether it's better or worse, but I want to kill the principles while they're small, the amendments won't be talked about and then great. 115 So don't lie to yourself. You're not sure what it is, and you've got everything there, like that one of your Berize, what you're looking at is the founder who didn't read, and he was against it. You should listen to me, you better listen to me than on your cell phone to take orders. That's why, Mr. Chairman, since the masks have fallen, I suggest that the clubs be heard here, however you like, if we ever want to talk about these amendments, which they have proposed or we shoot this when it's small, I just want the public to know what you wanted. There's no problem. Say, we're not gonna do anything and tell people to come out at least so they're safe when the light goes out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23654	He's looking for a replica. May I have your attention, please? You'll all get your word. You'll all get your word. Replica, Chairman of the dom Mr. Martin Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23655	Dear Representative, Mr Lagumdžija, since in every word or sentence, you speak my name either as president or as Martin and as your entire frustration you focus on me, for no reason whatsoever, because I have provided maximum working conditions for everyone here today and that was my responsibility here today as Chairman of the House to make demands for a break, to offer room for a solution, and that is not enough for you, but now you want to accuse me of attacking the international community as the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission. That constant replacement of yours is, in fact, one of the generators of the political crisis over constitutional amendments. I am responsible for saying this to you in front of the Bosnian Herzegovic public, because what I said here today about this speaker, rather than offering amendments, as a way out of this situation. But these amendments are Mr. Lagumdžija and principles. Tell Janvo here that you accept the principle of equality in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Hercgovina, so let's vote on the amendments. Don't manipulate it. I publicly articulated each of my views and, secondly, this experience with the amendments, so we had to see it on the Constitutional Commission, how the Proposer reacted, who asked for a break and how they were extorted, accepting certain amendments, and about others there was no point of view at all. Well, we have experience. We have experience. So, leave it, if we're going to work day and night, we're going to open a dialogue on the arguments offered, don't label it. I didn't label you here in front of others, not in public, not in any way. I don't think it's fair. I warned Mr. Duraković to turn to us, not to the international community, that there was a problem with us. I think that's the problem with us, not the international community. I pay my respects, I've been showing my respects all day, and come on, if we're going to respect each other, here's my friend Mr. Špirić, who's now calling me to talk. Half a year we offer both public and reasoned and in public debate etc. Well, if it's necessary, I'll get over it, I'll talk about the minimum now. Is it fair? I don't know what else to say, but so far it's been like a pinball, it's being rejected, because it's thought there's a certain kind of instrument that will pass. Now that that's happened, let's go. I want to talk now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23656	Thank you. Is the answer to the line, Mr. Lagumdžija? The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23657	I don't know if Mr. Lagumdžija can hear himself when he's talking and what he just said. So he was talking about lies, he was talking about some orders, and he was acting like he was ordering this whole parliament. I also fully understand the Party for BiH MPs' club and the seriousness of the moment and the importance of the moment, that's for sure. I'm not looking forward to it at all, Mr. Špirić. I'm very sad and worried about going back to the amendment. It was practically the whole question, the amendment, the amendment, the amendment. The BiH party has one single amendment. If you remember, it was a long time ago, then I was talking about our positions, attitudes, etc., we said that the principles and principles on which this project rests, the amendment rests, it's not acceptable for us, but in the sign of operationality, let's give this amendment, which enters into the principles and opens up the first step, namely the process of changing the queen. These are our reasons. So if this amendment were to be agreed, so I am speaking publicly, if it is possible to support this amendment, we will vote both for the principles and for the project. So, as far as Mr. Avdić is concerned, I don't know that I'm Mr. Avdić and I saw him in the hallway, or I said anything to him. I don't know, it's possible, but as far as I know, I'm not. Here, it's Mr. Avdić. So we're ready and we're ready to take a break and talk about the amendments we've submitted. But I, after a break, got up and wanted to ask, but after Mr Špirić's explanation, I realized that I could only conclude that there was no answer, there was no echo on any amendment, which was submitted, including ours. But here, if this Parliament thinks there's room for an agreement, we'll sit down and negotiate. I think our views are quite clear. I'm really asking that, I don't think there's any need for people to be offended, that people are saying they're lying, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23658	Mr. Lagumdžje was, so Mr. Duraković, so Mr. Avdić. So here we have the order Kunić, so Mr Gligorić, so Mr Duraković, Lagumdžija and Mr Avdić. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23659	It's my turn now. It looks like Mr. Duraković is a censor for tonight, playing the main roll and saying I'm setting myself up. I answered Mr. Duraković, but you don't respect anyone. You can't see it. You can see yourself. Look around. It's not just you. But there are MPs, all of them. Your Honor, this looks like a big direct order to me. I think Mr. Lagumdžija was right when he said that some things are getting too far, too far apart. I think there are clear views and I think we should move on to a vote. It really doesn't make any sense anymore. I was against change, even an initiative to change the Constitution, because I knew how it would be. I guessed. The campaign has been held for the last 10 years for changes to the Constitution. Germany changed its constitution after 20 years. I guess we'll have to think about it, about that variant. In this country and this parliament, we never discuss economy and economic development. They just want to achieve certain political goals. And that's over 117 people's political goals, but it seems to me that someone who has served as one to achieve certain goals will no longer do so. And I'm glad. Finally. And those who are against these constitutional amendments, I guess, I'm not saying we're going to have a hard time getting to this. Let them know. We're having a hard time accepting this. It's been said a lot tonight, I didn't want to answer it, I didn't want to do it, but we're having a hard time getting to this. You know whose damage it's going to. But I think, I think, and I hope we get one, one very good lesson from this debate today, and that certain political leaders who are easily entering these things will think more about it. So don't let anyone hope tomorrow, but tomorrow they'll have the support we're ready to give tonight. Don't let anyone think we're too happy. We're not happy at all, but we wanted one solution, and we wanted to give support to the international factors that have put a lot of work into it, so in some way, we wanted to support this. Let no one be fooled that in future support, that consent will be granted lightly. Please. You heard everything here today. Here today they heard some things that are not easily digestible under quotes. So, I suggest, that I accept this entirely, Mr. Duraković, as he suggested. I'm asking you to make sure this goes away or not. And then they'll talk further and find a method of working out how to talk. We've had in these constitutional amendments very large traps that are a great reminder. Very big, bureaucratic pranks, I called it bureaucratic pranks. No, we'll read them hard in the future so we can accept them. Very, with a lot of analysis, with a lot of seriousness, with a lot of responsibility. And finally, to conclude, I'm glad we won't have, I hope the middleman who's only going to put pressure on one side. Until now, there's only been pressure on one side in the last 10 years. Concession, you know who had to give the most. Gentlemen, imagine if it will be in the future when there will be no one who orders it to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23660	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Just one sentence. So, I've been taking breaks at the SNSD Club and the SDA Club's demands. So there's no directorship, I've respected business demands and I'm the State's Rules of Procedure. And here I was right about the time it was supposed to go on. We have three replicas: Lagumdžija, Avdić and Milićević. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23661	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I don't know where you got the idea at all, now that they say, you and I know what we're talking about, many have forgotten. Given that you are truly in one inappropriate way invited to some of my frustrations, which, I'm sure there are, but they are not in any way such that I present them in Parliament. We all do, but at least I'm careful not to show it in Parliament. I didn't show it here. I don't know where you saw it like that. I have... resented rather than being the chairman of the House of Representatives, I have resented Mr. Martina, because at the same time you are acting as chairman of the International Relations Commission and you should have sensitivity on that basis for what you failed to do. And since you have called me here directly to support your principle of equality in constitutional amendments, please, you knock on the open door, when I and the party from which I come, the second thing is that the principle of equality begins then hides behind some very specific amendments, these or those 118 types, and the principle of equality, you know well that I am the signatories of so-called. The Sarajevo Agreement, which allowed such equality in both entities four years ago, as such, insufficient, but better than what we had in Dayton since '96. until 2000. It's obvious that my friend Berize here, I hear myself, too, and whoever heard me in time and space, always hears the same thing, and you can imagine whether in time and space when he hears you, a man hears the same thing, and don't ask me if I hear myself right. It's obvious, from this point on, I'll insist on it later on. No, you won't, the principles are stories for little kids, we heard you're not sure, we heard you deny guarantees, then you heard you're pushing people who give guarantees, then the only thing we can conclude is that you want to put the country into an adventure and that, it just hides everything under the company of patriotism. It's an entity vote amendment and I'm gonna finish that thing for you. The amendment you call entity voting, it's one of the brakes that's left behind, and it's behind the question of principle, let me, I didn't think I'd have to answer that question to you and my colleague, of the four brakes that existed, as senseless, three of them are alienated and the one that remained, and I'm very clear, you're ready to burn all this rest just because of the Azra that you asked me who signed Dejton, the three who are underground, the two in The Hague and your founder, who is still at large, brought us into the Dayton adventure and don't falsify your founder's child. Doss more. We want that child on the right track, to start schooling and become a European child, and you want to fill it with us in 2006 as if we did it. And don't let us play here anymore. This isn't a kabuki cheap play. This is a serious story. So let's see who wants to walk this child and don't give him to us, you'll sleep with him like I do, when this is all over in this country, which is what it's called, but at least I don't want you to put it to me now in 2006 as something I've done with those who are missing, one is not missing, and he's here present through you clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23662	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23663	I think we're going into 13 hours of debate over constitutional changes and yes, I'd say the attention is dropping and I'd say the degree of tolerance is getting lower and lower. It would not be good for us to discuss extremely serious issues in an atmosphere like this. And it would be good to really refrain from replacing the thesis or intellectual provocations that lead nothing. It's objective. Let's sing to each other. Which means I haven't learned from my colleague Kunić that in this color of intonation, perhaps even with threatening intonation he's talking about some things. There is really no reason, and in this context, we have shown our full will and desire to seek compromise tonight. He doesn't want to compromise. So there's absolutely no political will minimum to agree on anything. Take this or leave it. Well, people don't do politics anymore. So figure it out more than once. The blackmailer is therefore simply a dictatorship out of the question in this House. There's no dictatorship in this country. Which means I'm asking you to compromise. We're looking for a compromise. In the normal procedure of the parliamentary one who has proposed amendments that is the Presidency, what we have been doing for 10 hours should be evident. Isn't it logical to say what he could accept, what he couldn't accept, that everyone would give their assessment of the comments made by the HDZ 1990 Club, the Party for BiH Club, other MPs that were on display, etc. Refuse it all. Yeah, right! Please refuse all of this, and then we'll vote. 119 No problem at all. Don't transfer responsibility to those people who thought for themselves tonight. On condition, think for yourself. I'm sorry. Which means the Presidency is responsible for the fate of these amendments. He proposed amendments, let him defend the amendments, and let him say what he meant about the comments made on the amendments. I think it's logically necessary, correct,_____________ We didn't get that far. Well, we've come this far, we have. I think the time of the situation is already here. I'm sorry I'm not, no, no, I'm sorry. So that's a prerequisite that we can simply vote this first vote on principles. The preduslov for the presidency to say what it thinks about it. If he says it makes sense to discuss and that we can open the subject of entity voting how not to, why not plead for a simple first reading. I'm on it. Why don't you take it out. But if you say it all out of the question, just take it or leave it without gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen simply a dictatorship in this country has passed away as a failed investment and political and formal legal and in this context absolutely unacceptable from the aspect of the simple logical opinion of reasoning and simple logic constitutionally legal and each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23665	Thank you. We have three more replicas. Mrs. Milićević, by Mr. Živković, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23666	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. We said 13 o'clock we're going in and I respect it so we're all responsible for, today we've been here 42 all day. So I'm the one who saw that we've all taken seriously what's in front of us and I respect the presence of these people sitting here all day and saying hello. I also respect, people probably assumed what kind of story this is going to be and written down guarantees for phase two. I do not belong to MPs who are satisfied with these constitutional changes, but as an MP who is three years and more than three years in this House fully aware of what we have discussed together and publicly and individually about the disturbances in the functioning of this house, I believe these four amendments are the beginning of the story of taking the dark off of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a dark fairy, as a protectorate and trying to get us to stand up to our feet and to talk. Look, if this is enough, is this bad, if we don't do this today, or tomorrow, if we don't move something, then even one inch ahead is better than staying zero. First amendment, jurisdiction, so gentlemen we argued here, talked to people who counted days for the Ministry of Agriculture properly. wrote that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have the Ministry of Agriculture. So you have to say no, now it's not acceptable. So the Ministry of Science and Technology is about to become. Where are the people who talked about it here now? Where colleagues who convinced the Bosnian man needed the Ministry of Agriculture to support these farmers under tents. They're against this now. We didn't say this was the end of the constitutional change story. We said this was phase one and we have guarantees for phase two. 120 As for the Second Parliamentary Assembly, we have witnessed that 42 MPs, that there are a small number of MPs in the House of Representatives, we have witnessed that when five people go somewhere on the official road, that this House cannot discuss, that it cannot sit. Are we going to honor the next meeting of 42 places and get people in a position to make a giant slalom running with the commission to the commission because they're on five commissions. One of the amendments predicts that. Third Amendment to the Presidency. That's not true, someone here has twisted and said the president can disband the Parliamentary Assembly. That's not true. The Parliamentary Assembly may call off the president and vice president. Who's gonna be the candidate? Well, gentlemen, we've had our chances so far, we've had 2/3 of the delegates' club presidency because we've delegated them. We leave it at will and opportunity when the president and deputies are delegated to choose the best one behind whom most will stand and who we will assess to be the best, even if he is a Srbin, or a Hrvat, or a Bošnjak. Fourth, Council of Ministers. So we had a situation that we always had this side empty. If anyone criticized them, I'm here to criticize them. However, the way the Council of Ministers was organised, so you couldn't bring people under any circumstances. Only by force of opportunity. Now finally, we said we have a president of the Council of Ministers, we have another way of deciding, we have a ministry. Therefore, whether it is a shift in functional Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm in that amendment, I'm telling you, maybe someone would have said it now, but Republika Srpska has so far had some kind of mechanism in the Council of Ministers losing it. I don't want to talk about it right now. I'll talk about it when they ask me at the base, I'll talk about it, I'll answer those questions, but I want to tell you that we've always needed this feedback from the Council of Ministers, that we've missed it here with these changes. There is, after 13 hours it's not bad, you know that when a pessimist and an optimist meet and asks the pessimist how it is, says the optimist bad, he can't be worse, and the pessimist says, "Yes, he can." I'm afraid, gentlemen, that if we leave it like this, we'll take this as a start. It will be discussed in phase two, or we will freeze one parliament without instruments in the way it has been for the next four years with the programme means that it is intended for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a European country on its way to the EU, or we will put 42 MPs on fire for the next four years. I, in that sense, appeal to look at and say what we've moved over by a centimetre. I won't say that's enough. What we moved and what we opened the door for. And one more thing, please as people I was the first to be when this assembly was formed, when it was sworn, then I was my first experience of this Parliament and I'm going to tell these now international communities, it's no longer Mr. Ežadun, and I'm sorry to say, it was that I was in the car coming here to the Parliamentary Assembly and I heard that the Council of Ministers Law was imposed. And then we came out, the MPs from Republika Srpska, and we said we weren't ready to talk about the law, about anything as long as we were shown mistrust in ourselves as people and MPs who were legally elected and impose laws on us. I'm looking at us now after three and a half years, thinking that we're the ones who called and said we don't need mentors. So we ourselves call on mentors. I'm looking at these people here as someone who's kind and who's trying to give us space to be, to prove that we're on our own and that, not in the future, we're going to be able to make decisions and think for ourselves. And that's why I invite you as colleagues and people to honor what's scheduled, and hopefully leave the door open for dialogue. I hope I didn't cause any replicas. Thank you. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23667	Thank you. Please state to all of you who are applying under replicas, and then ask, conduct a debate. Mr. Živković, was it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23668	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, was a correction to Mr. Avdić's incorrect allegations. I don't know if there's any point in saying now, since he's out of here and he's talking about a compromise and that we need to talk about his amendment, and that everything else is a dictatorship, an ultimatum, a blackmail, etc. to say that that's not true, that it's an incorrect allegation. Until now, what we've done about these amendments has been a compromise. Until now, what we agreed was a compromise, and if anyone made a compromise, we made that compromise. And this is the blackmail of the dictatorship and the ultimatum that MPs are doing here and ask us to come forward before the Rules of Procedure and then vote on the principles, etc. And it is interesting that here several times they have mentioned MPs to think with their heads, people who are either in political retirement or have no political perspective or have no political parties. I have my own party, I have my leader and what I have done so far, I have done because I think these constitutional changes will make Bosnia and Herzegovina better, that Republika Srpska will not lose. But also, you know that I'm a gynecologist and as far as my political career is concerned, I don't have to deal with it, no further blackmail will work on me, and if it comes down to quoting whether anyone's going to be involved in politics or not, right now, you know that I don't have to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23669	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, the replica was the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23670	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, it seems to me that the debate is going in some wrong direction. I thought I'd also say that here all the time he's been calling for a compromise without being willing to compromise. I don't know what compromise Mr. Avdić is talking about. We're expected here to say here we accept it, there's no entity vote, come on now you vote for principles. Mr. Špirić comes out and says people, let's get to the bottom of the principles so we can talk about when the amendments come up, and we'll vote on the amendments, and we'll see what happens. It's a business beat. And then when Mr. Kunić loses a man of patience, then he's just surprised how Mr. Kunić can raise his voice now. Watch out, please. I'd like an entity vote, please. I ask you colleagues in these four years, this is the sixth time I've been in this House, when there was a problem with entity voting when it was a political agreement before. Tell me one example when we're entity-voting anyone who's challenged a political deal. Neither on defence nor on VAT, means indirect taxation, nor on any project where there was a political agreement. What do you gentlemen want? You want no political agreement to go away. Is that why you want me to have no entity vote? If that's what you want, it's not there. It's not gentlemen, let's play it open. Well, he's right, Mr. Lagumdžija. Well, it's not an entity 122 vote. The problem is entities. The problem is the desire to adopt something without political agreement and without consent. So come on, please. I think we're losing patience. I think after every break we have even less patience to talk about this. We're ready to talk. But don't let people abuse our patience and our willingness to talk about everything. Don't blackmail us with something that isn't real right now. Please, we're offering deals, we're offering you an appointment, we'll talk about everything again. But don't make it a condition for us to vote on the principles after we make it absolutely clear that we're giving up the entity vote. Don't ask that as a condition of voting on principles. That doesn't make sense. Let's say business here, let's say business, so let's say principles. Well, I guess all that's done is some principles worth supporting. I guess so. If something isn't done, if something isn't done, they have amendments. Well, come on, then, ask for a break and let's talk. Don't do that, look we'll talk. But don't force us, I beg you. We're not gonna have any more nerves, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23671	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Belkić. You do the same replica, don't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23672	Yeah. Mr. Novaković, I, nor the Party for BiH MPs' club exhausts anyone, exhausts, or irritates, I hope. But obviously, that's how people see it. When it comes to entity voting, it is therefore not about political agreement not agreement, etc. If you've followed, I've tried to reduce our discussions within the framework you agreed on at the College if you remember. And I've only talked for five minutes and explained and said that if we are talking about what we are talking about, here's what we accept has instruments in the Council of Ministers parity, if we have a House of People, a broad definition of vital national interest, we have a consensus in the Presidency on the most important things of rotation, etc., we are not clear and we are wondering what entity voting is for. Of course, of course we expect that the Parliament will begin to create a general interest through political agreements of political options. I just wanted to explain. So we don't go the thesis, or you're the position you're talking about. So we don't deny the need for trust. But now I'm asking what an older chicken or egg is. Does the institutions and this queen we have produce trust, mistrust by definition. Or by nature, we're untrustworthy people, so we need such institutions. I'd say the truth is halfway there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23673	Thank you very much. So for the debate, I'll tell you who else has it, and then on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Tihić expressed the same desire to. Replica Mrs. Perkanović, then debate Mr. Gligorić. Is it a debate or what? Please briefly, Mr. Gligorić, so Mr. Križanović, after Mrs. Perkanović's replica. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23674	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I will look back at all the discussions that came here in front of me from these benches, which have been discussing all along in favor of the practical principle, against the amendment. Under number one, I am surprised that this comes from the ranks of those who advocate the declaration of Bosnia and Herzegovina and European integration. This is a chance. These are the conditions for European interactions I don't know why it blocks European integration, or why they won't even discuss the principles that lead us to European integration. Under number 2. something Mr. Duraković has repeatedly mentioned to me is the story that the constant pressure is being made from outside to MPs, that is, on us here today, who are discussing a solution, i.e. finding a solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for a better future for all of us and who have opened the story of the amendments in general. Why am I saying that? For the reason that no one puts pressure and that we all here think for ourselves, but I'm also afraid to use Mr. Lagumdžija to take off the mask. I think the masks are down and the pressurers are in here and the pressure's on us inside. Pressure is done in several ways. Pressure is being put on within its MPs, inside MPs who are from other political parties, and do not share the same political opinion. Pressure is being placed on other peoples and their opinions and pressure is being placed on the international community. These same MPs called on the international community to impose laws, to make various solutions, and these same MPs are tonight discussing how they do not need pressure from the side and how the international community is here to push, which is without right. I'd like to have, constructively, come to a solution and question your opinions, or your discussions, your performances, and really, will you listen to me or not? I mean, I've been listening to you for 13 hours, you know, it's really been coming out of these lines all day, and I think it would be polite to hear me out. I want and I want and I want and it is in the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina today and they are looking and waiting for us to find a solution to European integration, because we all have a future in Europe. It's not the future for us to stay where we are or for God's sake to go back somewhere deeper and further than we've ever been. That once again if you need to take a break to consult each other and join us who are willing to support Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23675	Thank you. The word is Mr. Gligorić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself. I don't have any more logs. Is it a replica? At Mrs. Perkanović's exposure, or. Good after Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23676	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make a concrete suggestion. There's no need for us to get high here anymore, as our people would say. I agree that masks fell off one or the other, it doesn't matter anymore. Let us plead as the Rules of Procedure suggests, and this is about principles first, so if we get support then we get amendments. 124 I just want to say if constitutional amendments don't get support let those who questioned that part take responsibility. But I tell you, after you gave the world and the United States and the EU and the guarantees they gave. It's not worth it. They can shut down, too. Then, Mr. Beriza Belkić, the two of us won't make any more arrangements. We will remain entities of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with its powers, will remain Republika Srpska with its powers and we will live. With a decision like this or a decision like that, we'll live. So just make sure that on the pressures of that kind of thing as come on, we take this down, and then somebody's gonna secure some new position. No, I don't. There's no new position, be aware of that. There's been a compromise, but here I really don't want to convince someone with the attitude that I have. And it's really more illusory to tell stories, give arguments. No one mentioned today that we intend to help negotiator Igor Davidović finish negotiations with the EU. No one even mentioned it today. It doesn't matter. When we formed, when we said it, it was important. Nothing in this Bosnia and Herzegovina matters. Some people have made that decision, maybe they're right. Maybe we don't need to. Maybe in 2014, we'll open up the issue of transfer of jurisdiction from the entity to here. But I don't think you'll have any more allies to talk about. As you have the right to say from the Party for BiH or others, we will not simply not want to. These are your excuses, so to speak. You won't. Well, tomorrow I'll say I don't want to either. I have the right in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this House to say, neither will I. I'm right about that. All right. Well, here's 10 years, I won't. Now here's what we've done to make progress, but that's not enough for you. Well, I don't want you to cut off my hand. I won't. I won't. And that's what you intend to do, and that's how you want everything from the past to pass on you have only one goal that the territorial organisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is different. Therefore, there should be a will for it. The international community has made it clear that you gentlemen will bring it yourself in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No more Dejton, no more forced solutions, no military bases, that's what we're aware of. Only our will. Maybe after these choices, when some normal people come along, etc. Maybe we'll make a deal. But today, it's gone and it's sealed. We'll put it in the bunker and let it wait for a better time. But you bear Mr. Belkić's responsibility for something like that. We've moved something we've done and it's not right for you. And that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman to let us know about it. There's no reason how he secured most or minority it's old lobbying and let him in this parliament. And that's perfectly normal. Here I am asking you that would be the final solution and that it is not worth changing the mind of any of us here, because here are stakes far greater so that he would now hear Mr. Gligorić's story and say, if you opened my eyes and now I will vote for constitutional principles in the first reading. That's not gonna happen, and don't let us cheat and don't bother. I think the debate was correct today we've been conducting procedureally. Conditions have not been created in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have in Bosnia and Herzegovina one tas, one power pulling down, pulling down, my God. We're not in the living mud, we're going to fall a little bit, but we're going to hurt our knees, but we're not going to completely fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23677	Thank you, Mr. Beriz Belkić. 125
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23678	So I don't know, Mr. Gligorić, uh, do you deliberately want to challenge the replica, turn to me and tell me and explain that there won't be an OHR, that there won't be this, that you'll never speak again, some hand, feeling, not cut off. I really don't understand what you're actually trying to say. But since you're talking like that, it's all true that maybe there won't be any of this. But you know what else won't be missed by God, tanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23679	Mr. Križanović. Please time only.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23680	Please chair, I'll use legal and constitutional arguments. Please, as a messenger to me, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23681	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23682	You of these procedures that you have prescribed in the Rules of Procedure cannot be stronger for me than for the Constitution which guarantees me a member of the 10th Amendment Procedure. And don't let anyone deny me as an MP and as a citizen of this country to plead on the amendments by sneering to vote on principles, and earlier what they said with some blackmail that if those principles were accepted, then the vote on amendments would be accepted. Please, to me, I am ordering from this speaker cannot be the Rules of Procedure of Article 111 in which he says – unless otherwise prescribed in this section, a legislative procedure is followed. Do not hesitate to vote first on the principle of one Rules of Procedure which does not have the power or the law and that you are denying me the amendment procedure as an MP where I am guaranteed my human rights under Article 2. And don't, and I'll show the reserve if the principles don't go through, and I think it's very defective what's been introduced into the Rules of Procedure to vote on the principles first. I'm basically looking at the width. We can say in principle we accept the principles of changing the Constitution and going to amendments. And when voted on individual constitutional amendments, MPs will also vote for individual amendments. Please don't give me a business bureaucrat, I want to say that this Rules of Procedure are not in line with this, and it says in Section 2 that I can't have any law, and especially the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, so let's also deny me my human right to decide to vote on certain amendments. I ask you gentlemen, ambassadors, please, the international community here is being raped in this way by the civil rights of me as an MP who gave me the electoral body of citizens to practically prevent citizens from voting for individual amendments. It's going to bureaucratic manipulation. I appeal to constitutional provisions and the European Convention and cannot be challenged by anyone with the principles. I am seriously asking you to violate human rights and Article 2 in this way and in this way to the Rules of Procedure and in this way to this rhetoric. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will address the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether I, as an MP and these MPs here, have put forth a great deal of effort and 126 efforts by someone with a bureaucratic sentence of principle, wants to deny my civil right, my parliamentary right to decide on this. I'm asking a crucial question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23683	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. Mr. Križanović answered for the word. I don't have any more reports, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'll say right away that I promise to be very brief. First of all, because I doubt that any further debate can affect the change of appearance of already formed opinions on the definition of changes to the Constitution. However, I do have a real need to say only two things. First in recent history, I think there is no country like Bosnia and Herzegovina that, after this tragic war that was so fortunate, it has so much support for the international community that was both military and police and financial and technical. We didn't use it as close as we could. Why we couldn't use it. Because of the circumstances that we've had and the political, but the good part and the constitutional limit. We were unable to formulate neither development policy nor cultural nor social, sports, or agricultural policy. Nothing! So again, we have what is said here by the outstretched hand of the international community. And support for this phase of change and for the continuation of the further process of change of the Constitution. I'm afraid to think we won't take that chance again. And we don't have, we have to understand, forgive me if it seems like some kind of sermon, but we really have no other way than to realize that we will have to go to the future and always in this Parliament with a lot of patience to come up with compromises. And now I haven't addressed my colleagues and colleagues who dispute these constitutional changes, but here's just a quick question about this ski and how they think about making the deeper changes they're up for. I am for them. You can make it with me. But do we have the majority here, the critical one to say the required mass of political consensus and compromise for the new story of constitutional change. I join those who say we don't. So I ask you again to think seriously and take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23685	Thank you very much. Is it a replica? Mr. Jahić asked for a word before you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I know we're tired, that we've already entered into whether 13 hours of today's debate, but it's really a serious topic on the agenda and we need to have respect for each other when we talk about these things. What we all heard today, the most commonly used word today, was a compromise. It is constantly whether it is a compromise on the one hand and the other and whether the other claim we have heard today is that everyone wants to adopt constitutional reforms, but normally with certain changes and compromises. Give it if it's a common denominator of everything to really see what we can do, 127 because I'm really afraid that we'll have this chance to talk again soon, to reunite around the Constitution, because some other things, some other phenomena, some other processes will start. I'm afraid we won't have time for sure once it's in a nearer time period. So it wouldn't be good, someone here suggested that we really plead as clubs, if we were ready to support the amendments. If we need to sit down again and do, let's see what these things are and what we could do, what concessions, so I care about adopting constitutional reforms today, but it's normal to care about being as many MPs satisfied with these solutions as possible. So all nations are also to be representatives of the citizens of all political parties to be as satisfied with these solutions as possible. Obviously, there may have been some kind of failure to be in alone, I don't mean procedure. But here's the consultation, etc. and in some other elements. But, in the end, let's take a break and see, so the presidents of all political parties to see what to do, if we really want to, keep repeating and compromise over and over again, and we want to adopt, we're not going to fall. So let's see what else we can really do to that background. Unfortunately, today the whole part of today's debate was, in my opinion, a political campaign, marketing, so let's just see what we're going to do specifically to find a common solution and get out of all this. Here, let's think about it and see if we need to take a break, but let's find a solution. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23687	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23688	I know we're all tired, but I have to say that it's a really sad message that we've sent today to the citizens of this country, but especially today here to the international community. It is a sad message that politicians of this country show and clearly, which is that they are not at the level of the task entrusted to them. And that the international community can't leave this country to its politicians, because that people don't have another time. So I think the question of the Bona Powers that we've fought so hard to take them down, now I'm thinking about whether that's the solution. With politicians like this country, it's really a question of whether a deal can be made. I'm asking you colleagues all together a chance is the last chance we have today. Don't let all this work done in the last year, all this energy and power that has been used by the responsible people within political parties and by the international community be thrown on the floor. Don't let one amendment ruin all this business. That's my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23689	Thank you very much. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I give my word to Mr. Sulejman Tihić, chairman of the presidency. Here you go, Mr. Tihić. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23690	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, here I would like just a few words on behalf of the promoter, although I simply cannot overlook the fact that I am also the president of the Party of Democratic Action, and that I cannot speak, debate and express my views. However, I am now in this position in which I am. But there's only one thing I'd like to say as party president, you know. I would ask that no one protect Mehmed Žilić from the Party of Democratic Action, that he is not protected and cared for by Mehmed Žilić, that something the Press Party will do to him, or in some other way harm or harm. Mehmed Žilić is our MP, he is our friend and don't worry about the MP for Democratic Action Mehmed Žilić from other parties. That's what I wanted to say as party president. You know that as chairman of the Presidency, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I can only speak to the current Constitution of what all three members of the Presidency have consent to. And today I've talked about it in my opening notes, and I don't want to repeat some of the things I've already said here. However, I must say, given some of the statements that have been made here that there have been no pressures in the making of this agreement that some are saying that there are now these sessions. It wasn't easy, there wouldn't be any. And all those who think that America, the EU, or someone else will turn their hands, or that they will make someone vote on the amendments badly wrong. We have to solve these questions ourselves here. To solve as much as possible, as much compromise as possible at this point. Therefore, all who feel that because we are not, I say, to get support, the necessary support of the amendments, that there will be some kind of pressure from the other side, I don't know the international community, anyone, they are seriously wrong. There's no pressure. What the Americans and Europeans and all the others who helped us in this project could do, just help us out, provide professional assistance, explain, eventually convince us of the correctness of some solutions, they have done so so far, and have promised to do so in the second stage, provided we accept this phase. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, things can be settled, only negotiated by a consensus of representatives of all three peoples. There's no voting, because then it wouldn't be Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then she would have called herself something different. You know. And Bosnia and Herzegovina can and should only survive as a community of equal peoples and Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak. And they, or their political representatives who have been elected, can and should agree, no matter how satisfied we are with some political attitudes, the options of these parties that appear on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of one of these people. Normally, as the Presidency, as a proposing, we have a great responsibility. This is the first opportunity we've had in over 10 years. A second chance I don't know when we'll have. We'll have a second chance if we adopt these amendments, because it's going to be phase two. If we do not adopt them, it is a big question when this group of political parties will again sit down and discuss and reach this level of compromise. And, when I listen to some of you, here, part of the MPs was also in the negotiations, I listen to myself, how I talked about ending entity voting, how I stood up for you, I don't know what you're talking about right now, and what kind of discussion it was, what kind of temperature it was, interruption of conversations, discussion, controversy, controversy, etc. But eventually, when it comes to making decisions, compromises must be made and we have made them. Everyone's made a compromise on their side of 129. Nothing is connected here, everything is related to something and the authority of the state with an entity vote, and I don't know how much the election of the president, the vice president, you know how much that definition would be determined to be both the president of the state and the chairman of the presidency, etc., the Council of Ministers, these were all those discussions that you are discussing today and where they may have been, where the discussion may have been far more acute. Here, however, is a parliamentary debate, where there is a level of debate, perhaps because the public is involved, but when we were alone, it was more severe and controversy that was being conducted and, behold, I often say listening to my colleagues here and their reasons, I remember my discussions and my efforts, but we also need to be aware that when the time comes and when we spend negotiating, we have to make compromises. Through the debate on principles, there have been a lot of talk about amendments and individual solutions, what should be and how should be changed. I, of course, can't speak my mind here. They may state the position of the Bureau, i.e. they may state the views of those parties which have signed the Agreement. I think this is a very important issue, and we cannot simply let this thing go to waste, that here because of one vote or something this project, which is behind both these political parties and other political parties who have supported us in this debate and in this debate, that now simply by one vote or two, this whole thing is going to go to waste. I think that we should work to reach an additional compromise and see what else can be done, in order for these amendments to get the necessary support and, if they can support as many MPs as possible, not just those two-thirds necessary. Therefore, on behalf of the promoter, on my own behalf, I request an hour's rest, to speak to the presidents of the parties who are signatories of this agreement, on which I would consider these issues and, afterwards, inform this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23691	All one thing, we'll find the formula, if the promoter can't ask for the club and, so I'm setting a break for an hour, but I'm pointing to the fact that a significant part of the political spectrum, which is presented today, is again in this call that only the leaders of those who signed the agreement, means, reduces the demand for compromise. Think about it. There are people at your disposition who had amendments, or club chiefs, try talking in an hour. It's 20 to 11. We're continuing 20 to 12. Here you go, Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23692	Who asked for a break? You can't have the SDA looking on the same agenda wheel twice break, you can't. You see in the Rules of Procedure, if you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23693	Please, who's up for a break. Mr. Džaferović, as a member of the College, has asked for a break now, and this must be made known to the House. I'm asking the House to come forward with a motion for an hour's break. 130, please, MPs, I'll give you a vote. Vote now. I find that with 31 votes against, 5 against, 2 abstentions, the House has set a break of up to 20 to 12. Please be specific. [[PAUZA]] I have to thank you again for your patience, but I think it's in favor of finding the best alternative to this situation. The word was sought by Mr Elmir Jahić on behalf of the SDA Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23695	And, if Mr Džaferović asked for a break, I would like to propose to Parliament, since it is extremely late, we are all tired, and obviously these consultations are not yet completed, so I suggest we continue the session around 15 hours today, since we have already entered after 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23696	Mr. Vinko Zorić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23697	I suggest if there are rested people to work, so the quorum to keep working. I'm not tired at all. So, I don't know why the break took three hours when an hour was asked for and what the deal was to tell us now. She's wanted for some new moments. In the morning, he has an appointment for the House of Peoples. It's not right for those before us to vote the Constitution, or it's going to be done here. I suggest we vote. The debate was over a long time ago. Why didn't someone suggest this at nine o'clock? Nothing was done, just going on about a lot of people getting tired and leaving. I'm rested, if I have to work till morning I'm here. So say the club's representatives that I'm headed for.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23698	Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23699	... looking for a clue in finding a solution. So there was a warning to give us a chance to talk, to see, etc. No one's invited us to any interviews. We've waited three hours here very disciplined, but, look, we're ready to work and we're rested, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23700	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23701	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if someone is already making a dilemma that we are, therefore, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives are two equal homes and we don't need it to bother us that a session of the House of Peoples is scheduled to plead. So, they can accept or they can't accept the 131 that we're agreeing to. As far as I'm concerned, it's a procedural matter. If anyone needs time, we, here, have to say, as far as the mood goes, so, MPs, I have to say that which by election law comes from the RS, we are ready to vote now for, but if someone appreciates that it takes time for additional consultations, in order for this to pass, we are prepared to respect it to come on the basis of the same principles and the same agreement to vote now, in two hours, in a day, in half a day, but, please, we need to provide support, now, obviously, from the Federation. If anyone appreciates that they can provide and take over, we don't mind. It's all clear who mentions the Federation. So, out of 11 from the RS, we have 10. If that were the situation in the Federation, we wouldn't be thinking about whether we had two-thirds. But I don't share this with the Federation and the RS, but I appreciate that if people ask that the agreement be accepted, the amendments accept. If someone is able to get most of this to end now and it's sending a message, but let's not spill the last bar, if there is one, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm not tired, believe me if we're looking for a solution we can stay here and talk as much as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23702	Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Potočnik, then Mr. Duraković-
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23703	Mr. Chairman, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, we would prefer to work tomorrow, or Thursday, but if the others agree and have strong enough reasons to do so today at three o'clock and if we appreciate that we will do something useful today, something that will allow these amendments to be adopted, we are also prepared in such a way of working. Of course, if I didn't repeat what Mr. Špirić said, this is where the principles were laid down. So here we have a certain agreement, we have certain amendments, and as far as we're concerned, at any moment we're willing to vote for these amendments, either now or at three o'clock, although we would prefer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23704	Thank you very much, Mr. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23705	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as far as I understand the break has been requested by the chairman of the BiH presidency for an hour to consult with the parties to the Agreement, to see if the proposal, which is related to the amendment to vote in Parliament, could be agreed and we did not get an answer whether it was accepted or not. If it's not accepted, then I don't see any reason to delay the vote tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, because there are no new elements. I don't understand taking an hour off, extending three hours and finally saying, I'll see you today at three o'clock. That's nonsense, I mean. So I suggest you put it to a vote whether we vote now or if we have a session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23706	Thank you very much. Mr. Duraković asked for a word. 132
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23707	Okay, I just said it, and if a lot of people have responded to it. I've predicted this outcome, and it doesn't matter if we vote tomorrow or today, so I guess it takes someone until tomorrow to continue briefing and dealing with certain MPs. Well, as far as I'm concerned, it's all one thing for me, but our club is willing to stay here, if it's due until the day after tomorrow, because I don't see any reason why this is going to happen tomorrow. Today we debated and made arguments, counter arguments, anyway. Why don't we vote on the principles and see what they say in Bosnia? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23708	Dear colleagues and colleagues, voting so it's not too late. Please, do you have anything else, Professor? It's never too late to vote, it's just, and it's exactly half past two in the morning, right? So you've heard Mr. Jahić's proposal, so we suggest that since this break is requested, here I am formally appearing as a proposing or one who requires a break and in fact it was the Presidency because it can't formally ask for a break, in order to conduct talks with political parties, these talks are ongoing. As far as I know, they're not finished, and we from the SDA Club because it's really late now, the morning is half past two, we suggest that since they already ate it today, today as Mr. Jahić is at 3:00 p.m., we continue with this session. We break up now and move on at 3:00 today. So tomorrow morning and noon, today at 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23709	Mr. Križanović, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23710	So here, participate, let me say all the representatives of the clubs around this dilemma, continue or end this work. I can say on behalf of the SDP Club that we're also rested and ready to work all night and all day, that's not the problem. However, we appreciate the suggestions, i.e. the SDA Club's proposal, that if there are any other legitimate reasons and the necessary time for further consultations, we accept that an interruption is made by 3:00 tomorrow. Thank you. Or tomorrow or today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23711	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23712	What Mr. Džaferović has now proposed is 15.5 hours ago, Moranjkić suggested. And everyone attacked him in this hall. And I don't know how it's worth more than someone's. The man knew what you knew this morning at 10 and you didn't believe him. The rose today suggests that for two months, let's have another debate, you ignore it. You're ignoring everything. Every constructive proposal that's been made here has been ignored and now for three hours there have been some consultations that someone goes out there to the pay phone and tell us, that's what we agreed, nothing has been arranged. You count on someone's murder, but it burns all the time 42 - 28 - 14. And what is expected for tomorrow, that someone will go home and not come back? Is that what's expected? I don't understand. If the SDA is tired, there's a quorum going on, we're working. Here's everyone ready to work, as far as I can tell. Only 133 Mr. Jahić said on behalf of the club that they are tired. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23713	There are no more applications for discussion. I am obliged to put this proposal on the House's plea, so let the House appoint a brother. That's the correct thing to do with the fact that I think we should go if there's a decision like that before 1500 hours, but here's the deal. So, I'm putting Mr Elvir Jahić's proposal to postpone the vote for today at 300 hours. Vote now. This proposal has both a general and an entity majority. We keep working at 1500 hours today. The session was suspended on 26th of April at 2am. 134 Please take your seats so we can continue our work. At the moment, I can report this esteemed home that there are 40 MPs present, out of a total of 42 and 28 from the Federation and 12 from Republika Srpska. So we have a quorum and we can make a full decision. I can once again inform you that at 1:30 p.m., at the request of the SDA Club, we have approved a break and an end of the session until today, 3:00 p.m. Does anyone want on behalf of the Club or on behalf of the BiH Bureau's amendment promoter? Mr. Šefik Džaferović asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23715	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellencys, ambassadors ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the public information funds, we were asked last night to interrupt the session because we believe this is a historic session and that we must not ruin the opportunity BiH has. Today we have received clear messages from the international community and from America and Europe, that if there is no such phase, there will be no next phase. I ask that we do not leave this room and conclude this point until we resolve this issue by getting BiH's amendments to the Constitution. I just can't imagine the situation of this falling all together and BiH coming into such a position. I call once again, especially you who are indecisive, to think about all this and try to find a solution. Here they are, here is the chairman of the presidency, here will be the presidents of political parties, come on, we can do as many breaks as we need today to find a solution, to get out of this room and get out of this room richer and BiH and all of us together in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23716	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word was sought by the president of the Party for BiH Club, Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23717	I welcome all of you together and to remind everyone that the break is practically requested on behalf of the promoter. Namely, a procedural way to provide a break has been found. And, as I understand it, the break should have been used to try to find a compromise, or try to meet a solution that I remember Mr Špirić talking about. So, in the explanation of Mr. Džaferović, I have not heard a word that 135 attempts to find a solution have been discussed at all, or to be more precise, about the determination according to the amendments put here in the procedure. I would ask if, of course, it is possible from the promoter to hear if he has an opinion on the amendments, of course, including the BiH Party's amendment. Let me remind you, this is about an amendment suggesting that an entity vote be abolished in the House of Representatives, with all the arguments I've given, not to repeat them. It is true that today is a historic day, and that is why I am surprised by the bit and the proponent's attitude towards the whole thing that we have entered this procedure without the sure support of the project, that we have done through the amendments, I remind you through the amendments for two votes and we have not spoken to the political parties that have 6 and 5 votes, etc. So, here's the short cut, I'm asking the motionor's statement, of course, by respecting the fact that the promoter is not obliged, but then it's a clear message for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23718	Replica Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23719	We entered this project with your party and we had 33 votes and needs but it's 28. Your party is at a time when there has been no turning back, and it is good that there is no going back from this time, left this project and do not accuse us who have continued to be the state you have produced by your withdrawal from this project. I'm asking you to keep this in mind. We had 33 votes, and then after your party left, we fell to 27 votes, which, of course, is not enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23720	I'm begging you, we've exhausted the debate. You will receive a replica, Mr. Belkić, immediately. I'm asking you to respect, let's just talk about the new aspects that we've decided to take a break to this day. And I'll give you a line, of course, Mr. Blkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23721	Mr. Džaferović, let me tell you, it's true that we went out, but you should have said the reasons why we went out, and these are the reasons for the day to come. And that's why we're against these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23722	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović, one more replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23723	Dear colleague Belkiću,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23724	Until a minute, because the second time is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23725	There are no serious political parties coming out of projects like this. This kind of project takes part to the end. You have the obligation and responsibility as well as my party, that 136 participate in this project. And I ask you nicely, that at some point you have made an assessment based on certain reasons, that you are more forward to exit from this project, don't accuse me of being left to the end of my political party, which I have remained in this political project for the rest of my life. I think you should stay in this project, and today would be easier for all of us. Absolutely, I respect that and you should sit down, but I am talking about negotiations, talking about talks and talking about what is possible in BiH as a consensus. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23726	Thank you very much. First, it was a replica of Mr. Đedović. Is it a replica or what? Then you have the word so Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23727	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to rely on the discussion of my fellow Beriz. Indeed, last night a pause was requested to conduct talks. Was there a conversation, was there a shift, was there any progress? We will sit here again until dawn, with this form of work we will achieve nothing. We all know that well. Come on, I don't want to really participate in such a goal, Zorić. I want to find solutions correctly and give them, if there are party representatives and they are, take people back, consider the amendments, try to find solutions and let's end it correctly. We'll work here again by dawn and we won't make a pedal. Indeed, please do not torture yourself or others about this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23728	Thank you very much. The word has Nikola Špirić, second vice president of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23729	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, chairman of the Presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, distinguished representatives of the political parties, your Excellency ambassadors, I have the feeling that today's debate has a chance to look much like yesterday's debate and at the very beginning I want to say that this is not good, that it does not create legitimacy or additional legitimacy for this home. There's no need for us to bathe again in the same mud. This is not the home of the party president, this is the House of Parliamentarys to decide. That's why I think the break that was last night was supposed to result in a deal or a solution. And Beriz Belkić is absolutely right when he asks for an answer, whether there is a shift. So last night, we had an absolute mood, we have it today, that we vote to uphold the principles of the laws, the question arises whether a two-thirds majority was created in the Federation. Is it or isn't it? For that two-thirds majority in the Federation, on the basis of agreements and amendments, if it needs to be further consulted, we don't mind. And that's why I think we should now assess whether today we're going to make a den again, a common den, or we're going to have an answer and a clear sign that's not on the line of agreement. So none of this is a historic date for and historical versus but it's good to answer. We try, we fail, we have a problem, we have a problem, we talk, we want 137 talk, we think we will succeed, so as Parliamentarians we have to have some kind of answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23730	Is it a replica? Replica Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23731	I apologize, I said in yesterday's statement that I was against the way my fellow Špirić agreed, and I know this is not the political leaders' Parliament, but obviously we have buried positions here that are for these or those reasons the way they are. The only time we want to politicise, the only time we have to look for any of the parties that are looking for this, I agree with what Mr. Džaferović said, please agree to make a move or tell us that there is no movement, that we make a crawl. We'd better break the day, two, five, than wait till dawn, so we'll do the same. That's all there is to it. And correctly, so I am for the deal here, but it's obvious that the relationship of power is such that this way the deal won't come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23732	Thank you very much. The word is "Zlatko Lagumdžija," please. Let Izet Hadžić be prepared, then Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23733	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen of the presidency, prime minister, ministers, presidents of the diplomatic court, we mostly left this building around 2:00 p.m. last night, and we heard all sorts of things. A lot was said last night. You'd say what could have happened from 2:00 last night to 3:00 today, not much. And I think a lot of things happened. I think we all had to face ourselves pretty much, with all the alternatives, with all the options, which means our decision today, whatever it is. It happened, there's a lot of new aspects, a question has been asked here. There are new aspects. I think the people in this country, each of us talks on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the people, on behalf of the people. But I believe people are much, much more concerned today than they were yesterday. An ordinary man is more concerned today than yesterday. Even today, yesterday you could see in the media, you have a study of public change that clearly says how people treat this. It's not public change that we hang out with, our family. Public change is mostly that candlestick that we rarely even see. You can see that what they say and feel is certainly a much greater obligation and responsibility in front of us. Also, something happened today. I've been asked today by several journalists who are following this here, who stuck a large number of them with us here last night, to comment today's advances, the High Representative's statements and the ambassadors present here today who had a joint press conference, the EU, the European Commission from the United States to comment on what they have told us very clearly today. It's in itself enough time for everyone to take another look at each other's eyes before we press the button. We all know that Domu is here, too. Maybe there's a better situation than here, it doesn't matter. But whoever's ready, we heard most likely in this house in one voice and in the other last night, people who say, I don't know if it's better or worse and I'm going to be the same. So there are people here and amongst us who don't really understand what's better, what's worse, but who have their own attitude. Can we play with that? May we ignore, if anyone is here, I speak out of my own people, and then on the 138th name of the citizens, whose interest it is to keep everything the same. Is there anyone here whose interest it is to keep everything the same? Let's reverse the vote, when we won't support the principles, unless we're sure our amendments will pass. Let's make a vote if you want, who's in favor of staying the same, so we can eliminate it. Or maybe he's got most of it. Even if there's one third, no entity vote, here I am ready to stay the same. So, we're not in front of a dilemma whether it's going to be the way we'd like it to be, but we're Mr. Chairman now, we have maybe three options, if I may say so. We have a chance to fix something. We have the opportunity to take what is offered. And we have a chance to stay the same. And that's a line of priorities for me to vote on. But to fix it, it means that we have a passageway to both homes so fixed. Accepting it, too. We don't need a vote. That's what when we vote on principles, you'll see where we are. In other words, Mr. Chairman, so I don't enter the controversy here that we've already heard everything already said, I'm offering you two options. I need to talk to people I thought we had a majority. I'm ready to talk to people who want to join, see how to fix it. And I'm ready for that. And I would also like to talk to people who have told us today very clearly, our choice is that four years remain the same, and that the attention of the people we drove out of this room last night, some of us, is to stay away from bigger problems than we are, that they just leave us here with a safety umbrella so we don't kill ourselves and stay poor. In other words, Mr. Chairman, I have a proposal, just one of you. One proposal for you, and if you don't respect it, then I'll say what belongs to me by... So I suggest you, as chairman, as College, give us an hour to talk. We don't need Tihić here to get behind the pay phone, say there's nothing new. Or nothing spectacular new, because if there was, there would be a presidency with him. So, to ask you, I suggest you give us an hour's rest. If you don't give us a break for an hour, then when I sit down, the club president will pick up, I guess, and ask for half an hour, which you have to give us in the Rules of Procedure. I suggest you go...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23734	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, please, let's be patient. So, Mr. Lagumdžija, you shouldn't have doubted at all whether I was going to give or not, because we had experience in running this session, where everyone took advantage of their right of representation, whether through debate, whether through replica, or through a false allegation. And I now suggest to you, as one of the people who signed this agreement, that you use that hour, so you really respect what was heard yesterday in the debate. And let's find a deadline in this House, a deadline that will not undermine anyone's integrity, neither the Europeans nor the United States, nor this Parliament, and that we are really looking for a solution. Isn't that fair? But that deadline isn't for an hour, gentlemen, because we can see that there's no acceptance of something that's very argumentative in the day. Think about that deadline and I'll set a break for an hour. Thank you very much. I have the right... to ask for a break, to ask for a little more time, I suggest that it be maximum by 6:00 p.m. and that there can be no more breaks outside of the Rules of Procedure and the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the regulatory requirement. Here, that's my suggestion, if you accept it? 139 [[PAUZA]] ..let's keep working. All MPs, all distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, funds for public information, I thank everyone for the patience and apology of all those who have waited. The request for a break was an hour and you see, it was trying, it was done at the stop and it was reasonably extended this time, so that I am now asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure and to stick to the Rules of Procedure in terms of possible additional requirements for breaks and duration, so that we know who used the right to do so, who hasn't and to complete this process and to approach the decision-making process. Here, I think that was correct to say in the introduction. Anybody want a word? Mr. Žilić answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Žilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23736	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Excellency, I felt obliged to say two replicas and say my opinion, because believe me, I have been under very difficult pressure this 24 hours. When Mr. Špirić said, we agreed. He didn't mention Mrs. Kapetanović or Mr. Jahić. That's what hurts me. The pressures that last 24 hours, I took them as well-intentioned, really, to feel the moment of political and personal responsibility. And make sure I decide on my own advice. It's been hard for me in this House, which some journalists have carried out that someone bought me. It's hard for me to buy, remember that well. It's a very ugly thing, I didn't expect something like this in Parliament. I am working exclusively out of my own conviction that my belief is based on normal democratic principles. If after 10 years of the Dayton Agreement, and it is known to be a peace war agreement, there is a creation as it is, if we are going to work in the interest of citizens, then we should really create a real democratic constitution that will be at the will of all citizens. That's all I stand for and nothing else. And I appreciate the real help of the international community. I've experienced this help both in the war and after the war, and I want them to continue to help us, because they're obliged to help us. And finally, yesterday I experienced that my dear colleague Džaferović asked me to vote. I'm asking you to vote with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23737	Thank you. Replica Mr. Špirić. Please, yes,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23738	Madam Chairman, members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thought I would have no need to replicate because 140 tried 48 hours to give a positive turn to this debate, to come to the adoption of constitutional amendments. Yesterday, there were many reasons to leave this session after the presentation of the esteemed Srbin counterpart, although I am against it because the more difficult insults could not be spoken out of this acclaim than yesterday, Mr. Žilić, when you said, that you and the Srbin could be president of BiH if he is fair. That's how you made your point. But I didn't feel the need to replicate you the way you did to me. And you said it was hard to buy, which means it's not impossible. It's impossible for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23739	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Žilić, then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23740	Let me just say, I'm for that word, for the president, I meant really a BiH citizen, I didn't want to offend any Srbin. I was thinking of a citizen who would be accepted by all BiH citizens, for the president of the state. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23741	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. Please for a moment, we've all had our chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm a bit of a wrinkle. We probably did a little bit more work yesterday, but I think we'll be in touch. Even yesterday, Professor Kunić and I suggested that after the debate was concluded, let us respect the business opportunity to reach practically these constitutional solutions and give the opportunity to negotiate. And we made the most of it. I think it would be a good idea if there wasn't any new suggestions, that we could be clear about that. Since there is an ugly opportunity to talk to people within the deadline, respecting the argument for and against this parliament. Yesterday we really had enough time to talk about it. I think some people have remained completely persuaded by their attitudes as I have remained with my views. I'm not mad at my colleagues who, for their part, stayed in their position. I wouldn't want others to get mad at me, 'cause that's our choice. It would be good, therefore, if there is no other solution for us to approach this voting act, in order to make a statement in the first reading on constitutional principles. If constitutional principles get support. In that case, we can talk about details, i.e. about the four amendments we have left to vote on. I think it's the only way to do business like that. Those who asked for a break would do well to record who asked for a break and who didn't. If anyone needs it, I can give it to him, but I think everything that was constructive is said that the attitudes remained diametrically opposite and that should be approached by that statement. To speak now, to convince me or the other, yesterday Mr. Belkić and Duraković and all of us here per person were persuading, opening each other's eyes, telling each other the argument, but it wasn't worth it. I mean, both a day and two and three after that, certainly won't change the attitude of the people who made that statement yesterday, that he's practically unchangeable. 141 And therefore perhaps you would beg, as far as this lobbying is concerned, it is positive and is present in all states. But Mr. Žilić also said within the limits of fair play. And keep it that way. We will live with this decision, be it positive, wish it were positive or negative, we will live in BiH. If someone doesn't want to accept it, we have BiH, a complex state, a federal state, composed of two federal units, we have a constitution. And life goes on. We'll try to start economic development and maybe there won't be an end to the world. Maybe it won't be what Professor Lagumdžija said, that after everything, after supporting friends we've got from the world, it doesn't mean anything to any of us, it's just to turn off the light. I don't think we should do this, but we just move on, we'll live with this decision. We're the people here who will commit ourselves to the fact, and I end up with this conclusion that there will be no new constitution from the international community, that time has passed. There are no military bases like before. But when we can agree, when that time will be, whether we have a chance today, in 2014, 2020, it is before our generation or some generations to come. But never to enter a conflict again, but to use democracy. The very word democracy, it is a conflict, but it is resolved by a peaceful path. And that's how we're going to do it in the future, and I think we should end it civilizedly today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23743	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. I've got Mr. Izet Hadžić, Vinko Zorić, and Mr. Lagumdžija. Replica. Replica, Mr. Ćeman. Please take care of the weather now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23744	Thank you very much, very briefly. A colleague Gligorić knows that many times on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, on the legal issue, that BiH in this constitutional and legal arrangement was a federal state, we exchanged arguments and, of course, we disagreed. I know a lot of BiH legal and constitutional-legal theorists who believe that BiH is not, of course, neither the union nor the Federation. In order to be a Federation, it would be necessary to be state entities. As entities are not states, BiH is not a Federation. Let it remain as an opinion, although I had reason to replicate so far on many occasions and on the same subject, I did not want this to go any faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23745	Thank you very much. Mr. Izet Hadžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23746	The esteemed present, the esteemed Excellency, I wish I had heard first of all, the answer to what was a compromise, whether there was any compromise proposal, so, yes, let me put it more easily. Of course, I want to say my opinion. I expected that the proposal and agreement were six, so to call six representatives of political parties, that this is the agreement of people who are responsible for the whole area of BiH and not to be shared by entities. So, as far as I know, these parties are working in the entire BiH area, and that this document that we get is work material. Because when the question is asked here, why are they meeting, it's said, so someone 142 needs to make work material. That we do not view it as the end of the world that this work material should be commented, repaired, groomed. I, as far as I can conclude from so far all the discussions, that this adoption of constitutional amendments would be to say both historical and to say with other characteristics and great, there would be one problem that is called entity voting. So it was a compromise that entity voting should be deleted at least for state competencies, and what are common competences, to keep it as an entity vote. I'm offering another solution and calling, especially the embassy, an ambassador from the United States to support us in this. Let the entity vote stand but, that the BiH Parliament, the House of Representatives, will be on the '91 census for the next decade and that we will eliminate all genocide and other activities and ethnic cleansing, which is a major accident and injustice of the solution so far. So if that's a condition to remain an entity vote, then let's keep it on the '91 list. and we'll make sure that there's no way to secure it, so that we can provide the compensation mandates with the possibility of this national balance. So we leave compensation mandates to be able and I feel very bad about where the Federation Srbin are sitting here as MPs. Well, then let me say, that's it, so we'll tell the forces of the dark that there's no need to do genocide, exile, that no one will support it, etc. And this would be some to say, compromise, and I believe it would be good for this country, and I believe it would be the right way and message to the citizens that we want to turn to the bright future, and it's not like we're based on a further political struggle, so I don't want to say to the distortion, on the wrong foundations, which had an effective result of stopping the war in this space. So this is my proposal, I love to be here, what they say, and I believe you would get both support here and that would be a solemn act. The other thing I'm asking is that we make my point, and indeed, once again I ask the international community to stay in Bosnia. The citizens of Bosnia are better than their political representatives. They want more, and more is the modern European constitution. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23747	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić. The replica before Mr. Novaković. Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23748	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, the honourable members of the Presidency, your Excellency. Look, it seems to me that in this debate we're going towards something we didn't want after these breaks. Looks like, as the break goes by, we lose in this majority another one who was ready to vote. Judging by what Mr Gligorić said, if there is any more, we will lose another one willing to vote for these constitutional amendments. What, but I didn't get up for it, to replicate, but I got up to replicate Mr. Hadžić. Indeed, the material adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission cannot be called work material. So it's a material called constitutional amendments or amendments to the Constitution. Next thing I know, Mr. Hadžić and the others, some of the expressions he's been talking about, as little use as possible here. It's just that they don't challenge the opposite of the terms that I really don't want to, at least not in this debate today. 143 I beg you, Mr. Hadžić, neither are you the one who can say something about being genocide, nor are you the one who decides about it, nor am I the one who wants to hear it from you. It is your right to suggest conclusions. Your position and attitude of your party, me, whether it's unique or not, means a lot to me when it comes to the adoption of these constitutional amendments. But if each time another man from the U.S.A. is going to be against it. Then I don't see the purpose of all this happening here. I ask you, we are ready to adopt constitutional amendments and we have two days to talk about how we are prepared and two days to offer adoption, and two days to negotiate with everyone who wants to negotiate, to adopt constitutional amendments. But, please, to set up individually, each member of the party who signed the agreement and constitutional amendments, some of its conclusions and new amendments, brings to full collage, what we had at the beginning of what we have today. I think it would be a good idea to have very clear views of how much political party has a mandate here today, from those who have signed. Of course, those who have not signed, clearly, are their positions clear. Let's see if it makes any more sense to take a break? Is there any point in trying to find a solution? If it makes sense, I'm up for it. But, guys, let's see if it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23749	Thank you very much. Please, the replica Mr. Sipović, so Mr. Hadžić. I'll limit the lines of time, and don't let that get us in trouble. It's all of them. So we stick to time. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23750	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the Presidency, ministers, excelence, media representatives, since this is a continuation of the session, and the public has been familiar with my position as an MP in the House of Representatives and as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who has had no dilemma since the beginning as responsible citizens, to support these constitutional amendments, which are in this situation with the help of the international community, and representatives of the US administration, headed by an ambassador who we express great gratitude, which has also been invested by the international community and the support it has given us to come up with solutions in this situation. For me, there is no dilemma as a lawyer, which means the quality of these solutions in such a finding where political parties have given us the opportunity to change the Constitution on our own that will allow us to have the state capacitated at least 50% as far as I am assessing and passing this Parliament and an effective parliament towards Euro-Atlantic integration. It's a historic moment because a colleague called and said the other SDA MPs are pleading. As an MP from my SDA, I respect the position of our party, I plead, and I have never brought into a dilemma that I will support these amendments. For all reasons as a responsible man towards voters and citizens, what does this historic moment mean when Europe and America give us a friendly hand. I'm fully aware. To keep from elaborated, I've highly effectively elaborated all the particulars. And I'd just like to make one more suggestion, please, I'm asking a question. Now, since it's a public matter, as a competent man, I'm asking a question. Please, parliamentary intervention. The Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work say that first amendments should be made to 144 on the procedure. And so, that MP thing stands. And, allegedly, if the procedure is not voted out, it makes it impossible for MPs to plead individually with the proposed amendments. Or another variant, if it changes from the procuring officer, the BiH presidency, the amendment, that only then will it vote on the procedure. Please, as a responsible man, I respect the greatest legal act. For us, it is legal, legitimate, and this is Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH which says, in Article 10 of the amendment procedure – the amendment procedure, this constitution can be amended by the Parliamentary Assembly, including the two-thirds majority present in the House of Representatives, with the House of Peoples having to confirm it, it is understood.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23751	Time please, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23752	Please, Mr. Chairman, this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23753	Please, Mr. Duraković, let him finish. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23754	As an MP, I ask the question, whether as an MP and as a citizen of this country, I can deny my legitimate right to vote in favour of the amendments offered by the Presidency without being previously valued by principles. I think the sublegal act, regardless of this Rules of Procedure, knows the legal logic that this is the biggest legal act that is contrary to everything, that it has power stronger than all the other laws and this. And please, I appeal to the European Convention on Human Rights, which is incorporated into Article 2(2) of the Constitution. I also ask representatives of the international community, I ask a crucial question, and to you, College, answer the question of whether my legitimate constitutional right can be denied by the business principle that we first vote on principles and only amendments. I believe and remain in this position to ask the College to give me an interpretation, or professional service.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23755	Thank you very much. We understood the intervention. We understood the intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23756	And I suggest the same, since it is a delicate issue, that if it can be, and we will, it can be later checked to declare this BiH Constitutional Court as the institution that is the largest institution in the Constitution to interpret the provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23757	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. The replica was by Mr Izet Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23758	So I want to say something, and I have the right to do it, and I'm asking no one to deny me my rights. I pray to Bog that no one can experience what I experienced as governor of Tuzla Canton in '95, that they get 35,000 people expelled overnight and 8,000 killed. And other things not to count. My colleagues asked me not to say things like this. But I'm asking you if we want to send a positive message, I mean what I suggested was a solution. Let's keep an entity vote on the '91 census. minimum next decade. So two election rounds. I believe that Žilić and the people who have resisted so far will support it then it will be a clear message that it is not to say the violated equality of the people. We already have an entity vote. And please, let me finally make my point, this is some of my minimum support for this. So if you don't like me taking part in a game this tight and I believe this would be the solution and I believe no one has lost. Everyone got what they wrote and that's what to say, what and what's written, etc. Just to the election law, to throw this clause away. And let me say, uh, I really don't want to hear a lot of things here either.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23759	I'm asking the MPs to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23760	When you say it, we're... RS's okay, so we're from the Federation's office, too. I believe the Federation MPs will vote 100%, there will be no entity vote. You won't have that percentage if MPs from the RS vote. So 100% of the Federation's MPs are against entity voting because it has all its foundations, etc. So I call once again to say to the mediators and the American ambassador who I really thank for so far, I think we're on our way to a solution and that we're all close to a good solution and one big message that can't be bigger, from this session. So, what we're trying to say is that we sanction some bad things without going in one good direction in a modern civil state. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23761	Thank you. please, the following speakers, who appear only with any suggestions. We've closed the debate. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23762	Since the prednisher, after two hundred minutes of rest, hasn't come out with any proposal, I'll come out with a proposal one. Before the break, I was saying we take 60 minutes, not an hour, knowing that the clock at the promoter was three hours, because it took three hours tonight, but there you were, disobeying me. You took another hour off. 146 See, I'm like a child, a boy, and even a married man was a farmer. No matter how disgusted some of the ministers I'm talking about, I'll apologize. And like all other people in Western Herzegovina, there was nothing else we could do but plant tobacco. So we go out to plant tobacco and turn rain, fight, run to the house. There comes a good time, we go out and we plant the tobacco. The tobacco's growing. We read it, etc. If someone told us when that rain came, you'd have to plant tobacco, there wouldn't be a leaf. There wouldn't be a single list. So you need to look for timing. We don't think it's good timing. Why? Because it's a bad suggestion. Yesterday someone here, not someone, talked a few of them about responsibility. I think the one who proposed them is responsible for not voting constitutional amendments. No one else. I don't have to like someone and like something. Especially unquality. Something bad. I don't have to like the way I plant tobacco in the rain and the dirt when I know it doesn't have any effect. So JNA said when we served JNA, 01.04. stripping, no matter what cold, 01.04. And my people, are we this one, ready to make changes to the Constitution or not? I think we should be. And I, on the other hand, suggest that this process be extended, to include as many clubs and parliamentary parties that can vote on it. So, in the talks on constitutional changes and then that constitution to the satisfaction and happiness of all citizens and MPs who think, I think I represent this part of the country's citizens, to adopt it. I watch movies when the American Constitution was adopted, then it was singing, looking forward to it. I know from experience, I remember it and the famous Croatian Christmas Constitution was also sung, celebrated. Every day on Croatian TV there were 10 times my homeland song, etc. So it's supposed to be a solemn act and not an act of some kind, and I'm just like my colleague Belkić wouldn't be, I'm not happy this won't go away. Because in 2004, we launched or gave the initiative to change the Constitution. The Electoral Commission has prepared amendments to the Election Law if this is adopted. It takes a month to postpone the election if this is adopted. I think with twice as much delay, we can arrange constitutional amendments and make sure everything is in place. I'm not going to talk about the minimum because no one wanted to negotiate with five MPs or the president of the club of those five MPs, what they think. In fact, breaks and breaks were taken here and no one offered anything. There's no one saying we can fix something in this part, here it seems there's no need for most of us to adopt constitutional amendments, so let's see what bothers you. There are no representatives from our club who did not discuss yesterday and the main remark, it is principled that there is no equality with decision-making in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If we are willing to upgrade it, and we can start in the morning, our club is ready to participate in the process and vote such constitutional amendments. We offer it, we, I have here a proposal from the Election Commission, amendments to the Election Law, immediately after this session, if we continue the process of whether, in the constitutional amendments, we can adopt this law and we can do everything in the next two months, agree constitutional changes, vote, bring more needed, and they know that Mr. Jahići knows what else to do after the vote of the Constitution, amend it in the Election Law and hold elections this year or at the end of the year, early January or late this December, and not to disturb Christmas holidays, we can agree if it is possible to start and December or half of the first month. It doesn't matter. But let's make a deal. I didn't hear these guys take a three-hour break except for Mr. Lagumdžija, who invited us to go make a deal. And me and my colleague Belkić as club presidents and House Chairman, I have to say this for the public, we came at the closed door. They said there's six people talking inside, that we don't belong there. Only after another hour, was Mr. Raguž and Mr. Belkić invited to the interview. Although Lagumdžija asked for a break to join the others. And we wanted to join without a call, but no, we don't have 147 seats there. We don't suffer from it either, but we need quality constitutional amendments. That's the main problem. Let an equal decision be made in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You have five votes left. We're not looking for an exclusive. That's not what our colleagues from the BiH Party are looking for. A short time ago, although some called us retreating down the halls, we first had coffee together because the break was too long. We had to go with someone. Everyone else was at some kind of consult. And my people, please, now please, I'm begging you, yesterday I kept listening to requests from that phone booth upstairs, please, let's make a deal and get through, or continue the process of agreement on constitutional changes, or let's continue the session. So, no, the fairies came to the eye. We have nowhere else to go. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm on my own yesterday, after the first break that was for lunch, and replicating and reporting for the word, although several times the debate has been opened, and I'm gonna avoid it in this session, and all my club colleagues have been avoiding it, just so we're rationally wasting our time, but this is the need to say, and this is the offer of a club that has five MPs, if it wants to make quality arrangements and decide to do so. If not, then I suggest we continue the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23763	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. We have an incorrect quote, so the replica Mr. Živković, then Mr. Novaković. Business intervention, excuse me, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23764	I was really as a disciplined MP this, respecting the Rules of Procedure, after this break, sitting down and expecting that you or those who sought a break would inform Parliament, but certainly not, could not come to the turn. So let's let whoever asked for a break, go out and inform this parliament, say what happened, and then we'll open up if we need some debate, etc. By the way, what Mr. Zorić says is true, but here's to saying nothing, let whoever asked for a break report this rally. It can also be about these details of waiting outside the door, around the door, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23765	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23766	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that as far as I'm concerned, and correct me if I'm wrong, that he took a break from the chairman of the hour. If it hadn't been for the SDP Club, I'd be interested in who's been looking for a break so far, whether the SNSD Club has the right to take a break, since I know that no one from our club has asked for a break. He didn't ask, he was looking as co-chairman yesterday. No one in front of the SNSD club asked for a break. I wonder if we have the right to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23767	As far as the allegations are concerned, Mr Lagumdžija's request was given a break. At the request of Mr. Lagumdžija. So at the request of Mr. Lagumdžija, and my business powers allow me to set a break. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to make a record of who used that right. The SDP used that right, that's true. And here, before, I would ask for more Mr. Lagumdžija for a minute or two patience because Mr. Novaković had the replica. Are you or aren't you? Or is it a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23768	I had a replica, but I'm giving up the replica. I don't think there's any point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23769	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23770	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's perfectly natural, I'll start with, uh, doing business intervention. I did ask for a break, but I didn't lose my right to rest, because you yourself said generously, since it takes a longer break, that you as chairman would give us an hour's break. And if it hadn't been for me to take a break, it would have been for the fact that you actually just called me for my intervention, because if you thought it was my break, you'd have called me to speak first, and you wouldn't have waited for someone to answer. In other words, SDP, in other words
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23771	I don't have to call you, it's your right, if you ask me, you'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23772	In other words, but I don't think you need an MRI check, you know that you've been looking for an hour's break, so I'm entitled to another one. By the way, I believe that you will consult with subsequent insight into the documentation because you are very well, as we said in this conversation, respected the procedure and gave pauses that allowed yet one debate in which no one will be denied at least the right to speak, even when he was banging nonsense. So I really get this, as I apologize to those who waited longer than the break was announced, so much so we did one big thing. However, the BiH Party, HDZ 1990, finally sat down, drank a coffee shop, so it is still one sure step towards finding a common solution. I asked for a break, Mr. Chairman, with the intention that, as I said then, I would remind you, we should try, since we have a proposal for the Presidency, so the motion to move forward, as a number of us claim. We have an alternative to drop it, as one number of people claim it is better, and everything remains the same, and respecting the fact that, especially in the last 24 hours, that is, today, very explicitly, representatives of the international community have also made themselves known, and regardless of what they heard here last night, the people who were still proven friends of this country, the United States, the EU, today was also the president, the chairman of the OSC here and 149 also had his position very clear and precise on this. He has honored us with his presence here and the High Representative, which speaks in favour of how important this is for all and we already have the support of the Peace Implementation Council to take this final step. And my proposal was that those who had suggestions, suggestions, remarks and who thought that they could come up with a better solution, actually try one meeting with the people who initiated this, try to convince all of us together, that what they were proposing really has a passing point in this Parliament and means repairing this as far as it is now. And, we had this meeting with representatives of the EU, the European Commission and the United States, these ambassadors, and the first thing that we tried, that we did make an inventory that we saw, where, as far as we came, which are suggestions and remarks that were made and then, after that, we asked Professor Avdić and Mr. Chairman, we apologize if there was a mistake, so Mr. Zorić was not invited and Mr. Belkić as club president, that you are here talking to us, telling us from opportunity and that we are trying to come up with some better solution that will have the acceptability in this Parliament. So, we didn't want to, and I thank you for your chance, to all of us, to try to fix this until now, but realize that if we don't fix it, that we have a very clear dilemma in front of us, whether we stay where we are and those who don't want to accept the shift, no matter what they'll even explain that they're not responsible for it. They're objectively taking full responsibility. And well, Mr. Zorić tried to explain that we who may not get the necessary majority should be responsible for taking this down. And that they left us here. But that's what the public's gonna do about it. I would also like to inform everyone here, Mr Avdić had proposals for constructive suggestions that some of us were acceptable. It's no secret that it was acceptable to me, but Mr. Avdić is not at least at that meeting, let him correct me if I'm wrong, he got the assurances of people who obviously don't consider it the best solution right now, that he has the necessary majority and that he guarantees the passage. Mr. Belkić was also very clear and precise and he felt that entity vote, so you asked me to say about it, was that right? And you are,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23773	Isolating you, to allow the MP, to warn the MPs, I said I would make sure that during the debate, any representative has the conditions to discuss it uninterruptedly. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23774	I wouldn't go into these details if I wasn't asked to just say what happened, so that others wouldn't be denied what we agreed on and what we tried to solve. So less is known are the views of both Mr Belkić and Mr Raguž, who primarily insisted on what is called an entity vote, that it should be abolished. That's not the kind of thing you got the right support for. There was a proposal on behalf of six signatories. The proposal to try to get together and solve the essential problem that has arisen here in the argument above all colleagues and colleagues, and not only from 1990, but such suggestions and suggestions have been in circulation before. And that is, the problem is entity voting, because in one of the interpretations the problem of equality or equality. That is, if the Hrvat, given the number we have today, whether it's 1991 or if it's another one, that today if all the Hrvat in the 150 House of Representatives were against something, they can't use the mechanism so-called. entity voting, since they do not have one third, in no entity part of Parliament, to stop some law. It was a fundamental remark that you made. In view of the fact that the House of Representatives is a House of Representatives and that it does not define mechanisms that involve ethnically, since there is already another House. The second thing is that we opted for the Commission's concept within the House of Representatives, but we chose a special home which is an ethnic home, the House of Peoples, that's what we called it. Then the proposal given here, at the meeting, is that the problem of equality that is apparent is that if all Hrvat in the House of Representatives are against it, and can again be outvoted for entity voting, it can be transferred to the House of Peoples. That is to say, to introduce a mechanism that in Amendment II to the Parliamentary Assembly in point 9 behind the indent g) stands a new indent that reads that if from 15 days from the adoption of the law of all seven MPs of any club of the House of Peoples votes against the law, the corresponding amendment of the argument shall be returned to the House of Representatives. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that now the mechanism of vital national interest is such that there are eight specific questions that can be raised by each club if it is from the domain of those eight, and then the Constitutional Court decides, that is, that is, that is, that the Constitutional Court with a two-thirds number, that is, five out of seven MPs can problem each issue before the Constitutional Court. This was a practical attempt, a predup that was given here, that instead of making an exhibition at the House of Peoples, which would certainly have been denied by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe, because we can't ethnically compensate if we already have the House of Peoples, so I compose, that if any law, one club in the House of Nations was against, then it doesn't go to the Constitutional Court, the law has fallen and returns to the House of Representatives to try again. It's a mechanism that would certainly have meant improvement in relation to that and solved a part of the fears that still exist, regardless of what I think they don't need to exist. That's one proposal that was made at the meeting and I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman that you're a little bit observant about this proposal. Please! No problem at all, Mr. Zorić we come to the procedure, no problem, no problem at all, no problem at all, so please don't end up saying that the problem of our constitution is because it's not submitted to some, we have a mechanism, the presidency can respect, so
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23775	Please, Mr. Zorić, let's finish this, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23776	So what do I want to say here? I want the public to know, I want the public to know what we talked about downstairs and what was suggested. I personally think it's one step towards finding a solution. Because everything else that's been offered here that I agree with to a large extent, there's no passing point in this house. And why are we against the extension of the deadline, why am I against the extension of the deadline? Because extending the December elections to end this year, or starting next year just means extending the agony we are in, because that would only mean that we are dealing with the real problems in this country are actually postponing things further. 151 And at the very least, if whoever suggested it would take the obligation to say it like this -- here's a two-month deadline, here's a deadline, if these amendments were adopted here, if that's what you want, yes, if we're serious. Let's adopt these amendments and try to fix them in two months, but no, let's go through it in two months, so in two months if there's no deal, then everything stays the same. If you're serious in two months, here I am ready to perform a review of these amendments in two months. There's no problem, and we can work it out. Let's now vote them and try them in two months and refine, because it certainly is not a problem that 87 MPs, it is not a problem that the president and the government will be elected, not a problem of jurisdiction, only possibly some decision-making mechanisms can still be problematic. There's no problem with that either. Let's adopt this and assign this parliament to go out with one of the proposals you said here in the next two months. This one again let me say that I draw attention to this proposal with seven people who can stop it in the House of Nations, making practical entity voting a psychological category, not a real one. Because nobody really needs it, because if really one whole nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina thinks something's wrong, it shouldn't be the law in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23777	We have more replicas, Mr. Zorić, Sopta, Andrić. Before Mr. Andrić it was Belkić's fault before, that is before Mr. Andrić, I must also say Mr. Avdić's replica. Wrong quote, excuse me, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23778	I thank Mr Lagumžija, he conveyed mainly the content of today's talks, or more responses to our amendments, to our proposals. It is not true that the only objection, the only requirement that the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina was an entity vote. It was minimum as a sign of our willingness to co-operate. So we've narrowed down all of our objections that we have about jurisdiction, so don't let me take the time and take it now, go back to the beginning of the debate, because those powers are somehow conditioned by certain provisions, etc., etc. So it's not true that our only request was to abolish the entity's vote, but it was a sign of our co-operation and preparedness. And if you let me do it again in one sentence, two say why, we don't take entity voting as a psychological category, but we experience it as one powerful instrument of entity supermation over the state. So let me tell you our arguments and as far as continuing to talk, we've experienced it this way. Here's the first phase we've done. Why don't we do phase two, go on phase two for three months. It's all over, or nothing's over, until it's all over. That was the essence of our proposal. And postponing the election for three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23779	A guilty warrant from Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23780	So I've been very clear that at the meeting downstairs the only amendment that has been discussed is here this amendment which, if I understand correctly, correct me again, would be a condition that the party for BiH joins these who, you know, so the minimum is to join, right? Well, it's the only one you brought down. That's it. Great. So the only amendment that's been laid out is this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23781	The amendment has been in the process for... days.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23782	Well, we talked about him, Berize, he did. And the fact is also that Mr. Belkić suggested that the first phase proceed with the second phase immediately. The only problem is that, and it can be discussed, but Mr. Belkić suggests that the first phase is not verified, that it is not adopted here now, but that whoever becomes it is, we have thrown it here, now we move on. In other words, and that's something that, I suppose, was also unacceptable for reasons that were known, but, Berize, I hope by this false assumption I corrected the wrong assumption, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23783	You did.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23784	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23785	Thank you Mr. Lagumdžija, replica Mr. Zorić, and Mrs. Sopta. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23786	So for starters, I'll start at the end. I don't care about Lagumdžija for two months longer than I wanted the problem to be solved. I'm giving up my proposal, but it's good that he's on the air and that it's possible to do that. I'm giving up on it. And what you here tried to manipulate, that I said was responsible for the one who suggested it. Of course, I was also here proposing some laws and lobbying for people to support me. You said here that it couldn't be the one who was responsible, the one who made a bad suggestion, but the one who didn't accept it, and only a little later, you said that Avdić proposed an amendment and that you estimated that it wasn't good enough. And I have no right to judge that this isn't good enough. So we're not even equal in that part either. And I cannot judge that the constitutional amendment proposal is not good enough, and you six have the right to assess that Avdic's amendment is not good enough. Or part of that six. Well, that's not right. I'm giving up on melagomania for two months, but don't give us any more instructions. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23787	Thank you. 153
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23788	I think, I think we this problem, we who are trying to save the situation, should let this go. You chairmans continue to hold the session and we will vote, I will vote on my conscience, everyone will vote on their conscience, everyone thinks they are doing well in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the test is, because no proposal is accepted, the test is the first week of October, in the tenth month. And so be it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23789	Thank you. Gospodja Sopta, please welcome Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me only before a small replica to make a call to the media. Gentlemen, today in the paper that I have opened and the news that I have heard is about always like this - there are those who are for the status quo and those who would like constitutional amendments. I exempt myself from it, and I also believe that all my colleagues who today will not support these constitutional changes that we are very much for constitutional change. So please don't interpret us as a status quo. This was confirmed by the final club and this chairman, and today's chairman, he took advantage of the opportunity in the third month of 2004 that we went out by means of the resolution and asked for a resolution of the constitution, namely annex IV. I've been maximumly coerced from the discussion of reporting for replicas. Yesterday I only replicated Mr. Lagumdžija for the same thing and I'll do it again. For the record, Annex IV, which we are now using as the Constitution, this is for the public's sake that Annex IV provides for an entity vote in the House of Representatives. This entity vote is essentially a two-national vote. The vote, a fellow MP from Republika Srpska and fellow MPs from the majority, large numbers, one, a fellow federalist who can use this mechanism to stop any law that they do not like and that it does not go further into the procedure. We as Hrvat, as a people, are allowed to do so in the House of Peoples, certainly it applies to both the Srbin and the Bošnjak, but they do not have the need for this mechanism. With one difference between fellow MPs and Bošnjak Srbin who stop a law in the House of Representatives, their proposal does not have to go to the Constitutional Court's assessment, but stops there. Ours goes to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court is voted by the judges, with no judge in the order of the Croatian people backing and the law passing. That's what bothers me as a representative here, but I've been acting by it because it's an Annex IV that we've had to use as a Constitution so far. Now I'm asked to change the Constitution, or to make a Constitution. Because this is where we get the Constitution. I'm interested, and I'm really asking you which one of us can ask us to vote to be unequal. It is a basic, basic, fundamental right that is incorporated into the standards of the democratic world. So I call on all those present who are for real changes to the Constitution not to touch right, that's democratic right, that's standard. We don't touch, let's not make any discrimination, but if something, one right doesn't have to go through, let's do it to find a way through. Where it can't go and let's spend all the power in that direction, to get it through. To make the democratic right equal. I, I don't want to deny anyone his right and his will. I say the will of 154 peoples is respected, and the will of all of us here, but to the limit as they touch, until they are excluded. Please, what your colleague Zorić suggested. I truly and truly believe it, I suggested yesterday in my discussion, that maybe two months is enough for us to sober up and think, to get a real constitution, not to play roadblocks and what, and what we're talking about a democratic society, and the basic democratic right we're adjudicating and disallowing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23791	Thank you, Mr. Sead Avdić. Please. Excuse me, come in. I haven't reported Mr. Lagumdžija. I give the word, you've always got the word, you've just realized that you've always got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23792	Anyway, since I've been replicated by Mrs. Sopta and Mr. Zorić, no matter what any of us say, it's perfectly clear that we're in a state that everyone says and not everyone keeps. And there are here by the Constitution a defined group of people, by the Constitution defined as necessary. Please! Yeah, yeah. Well, by the Constitution, I mean, what can I do to be called the Annex IV Constitution, it's not my fault that it was called the Constitution in Dayton. There was no other way to call it, home line. Well, then, it's called the Constitution. What do we do? So with that constitution, it's defined the way he changes. And allow Mrs. Ružo, or Mr. Zorić, yes, I'm willing to take responsibility, take responsibility, so we can try to change this now and fix it as far ahead of us. I'm willing to support you to change and fix it even better if there's enough of us to accept it that way. Al, let me if you take down an attempt to fix something that's better than what we have right now. If you bring it down, you have to take responsibility, you want, you don't want, you take over what's left of this. I am sorry that you did not respond to this mechanism, because you consciously tell the Hrvat only the Constitutional Court was left to the Constitutional Court, as a mechanism, only the Constitutional Court, after the House of the Peoples provocations in the House of Nations through a list of vital national interests, i.e. two-thirds of the members of any constituent people, so the Hrvat. But this mechanism that I've been telling you about is just going to meet it, and I've made it very clear that two thirds or five needs to be made before the Constitutional Court. But let us if the people of one nation, from all parties, not only from one party are against something then it falls without the Constitutional Court. That's the proposal I made here. And don't argue with me with what is now, I would like you to respond to what I have now presented to you as a proposal from the lower meeting and in the end, the SDP submitted a proposal of 16 amendments to the BiH Constitution in September 2004. And Mrs. Softa of our 16 amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina didn't go anywhere until this was created and now of those 16 12 is accepted. That's why we support this, because 12 is better than zero.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23793	Time, Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you. Mr. Sead. Mrs. Sopta, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23794	I'm the one thanking Mr. Lagumdžija that you've put so much effort into it. But I'm still staying unequal outside and I don't want you to offer me anything. I want to get it even with you. All that you have to get me, all that I have to get you and everyone else in this House. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23795	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23796	I've been mentioned three four times.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23797	Please, let's go in turn, Mr. Zorić, so Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Avdić, then Mrs. Leho. These are mutual replicas, that's right. Well, Filip, here's what we're gonna do. I beg your patience, I give my word to everyone for real.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23798	So this, six representatives of political parties agreed that they often like to call themselves the leader of this, and, I don't know, was he a representative of the Croatian people now to offer something to the Croatian people. I'd like to offer it to all the nations, and I'd like it to be the same rules, if it's veto, veto. And it shall be with two thirds everywhere, that it may be with one hundred percent, that it may be with seven out of seven everywhere, that it may be with fourteen, of fourteen, and so on. Why are you offering this to me, why? You have proposed 16 amendments, accepted twelve in this agreement. We suggested two, no one looked at us. And you're blaming someone else. I'm not lobbying for nothing, and you're breaking up lobbying to have most of it, and it's my fault. How can it be my people? I won't replicate to you anymore. Be safe.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23799	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23800	And don't, uh, call our party, 19.90, at least call it 199.0.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23801	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23802	Well, well, so I'm giving up any possible replica because I wouldn't want to act like a country lion running away from the rain, and that's why I'm really interrupting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23803	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23804	Ladies and gentlemen Members of poslanik, honored guests and members of the House, the Council of Ministers of Your Excellency, I may have been raising illusions that it makes sense to fight to achieve a minimum compromise in this House. Unfortunately, two days suggest that the absolute absence of any will to discuss any interventions on a package of constitutional amendments agreed by six leaders. And in this context, indeed, all the conversations that have been made with a lot of resistance and dignification are being rejected by any suggestion. I'm just going to elaborate a simple replacement of thesis that is constantly present. The ethnic method of voting is more than a simple statement at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. A colleague, Belkić, spoke clearly about it. This is said by Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a simple collection of entities and Brcko District. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country with original competences. It can't be just an expression of political will, one or another entity. It must be understood and accepted, it is the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The entity's voting method is transformed into an ethnic voting method. How is it converted into an ethnic voting method? In the Federation, Bosniaks decide on Republika Srpska. Where is the Croatian people? Which means we have to think about them like that in the House of Representatives. Unfortunately, such a constructive imperfection came in a complex of amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So in the Federation, the blockade instrument has Bošnjak, and in Republika Srpska's instrument of blockades have Srbin, Hrvat do not have it. Let's be honest. That's gotta get rid of people. The Venice Commission says - if political will is imposed on a nation, or if it does not accept it by its consent and will, it is not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And you shouldn't go, you shouldn't put pressure on it, you shouldn't just insist on it, six leaders had to take care of it. Which means the entity's way of voting, which is sad to turn into an ethnic one, and turns into a national veto at the Parlamenary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. It's true, and it has to be removed. I've tried to make a compromise that's below any dignity. You know what we suggested? We have proposed that the entity's voting method be reduced and remains in the House of Representatives, and that only the state level is simply not subject to the entity's voting method, that it applies to the shared competences between the state and entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that context, even that half-amendment minimum just couldn't be concentrated, it couldn't be achieved. I would only ask, chairing you, the Presidency to manifest itself in my proposal, at the end of the vote, for my conscience to be calm, the presidency that is the amendment's proposer at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. One more ten times, once cut. So the worse the solution to the simple, the better the solution to the one-time hastily, or simply the resolute vote for and against. This is what some wish to proclaim to the winners, and some to the defeated, some to proclaim patriots and some to the traitors of this country. It won't pass that logic, that logic won't pass. Here's a political profit if someone's looking for it, it's sad. And if someone runs an October 2006 pre-election campaign, also a missed investment. It is unfortunate that the constitutional amendments are being run in this home by a pre-election campaign. I ask once again, I ask the Presidency to show itself about this proposal for a corrected entity voting method at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23805	Please. Two days' work the maximum tolerance was, the debate is coming to an end, and prepare to decide. I'm asking the clubs to know they have that information. Mrs. Leho, then Mr. Andrić. And that's it. Novaković, Duraković, Đedović. Before that it was Perkanović, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23806	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23807	Thank you Mrs. Perkanović, so Mr. Križanović. Please bear in mind what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23808	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, fellow MPs. I was sent here by the people of Herzegovina from the Neretva Valley. When the Hercegovac send someone somewhere to represent them, they don't send a man without a head who has to go anywhere with no mind. They send people who are sure that when it comes to important things they'll measure ten times and once cut off. And I cut off yesterday when it comes to amendments. When I come back down and these people ask me why I am, I'll tell them like this-- we've had the Presidency of the State so far, and the European family we're going to go to is looking for the president of the state. Now we have something that they're experiencing something like tribal chiefs, three. And we can't go there like that. And that's what the existing Constitution says. They're looking for the Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, and he is, and he's not, they're looking for the President of Parliament, and we don't have that either, we have a three-member chairman who's rotating. We have a small home representative, they want us to have more bar than land in the environment, approximately. We have a government that according to the existing constitution has two ministries. And we have already transferred competences and have added to this agriculture which is certainly one of the main branches when seen in the future economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And especially from the point of view of European integration because it is known how much of the European Union's affairs are dominated by the agricultural branch. And how much access we have to that, to this area of ours. So, I'm going to vote on the lights of my cheeks, and I'm going to explain it to people. When I arrived earlier in 2002 in December in this building, and when I sat down at my first session, I said to myself, "You're not a judge or prosecutor to push history, don't touch it, leave people to do their job." You're not a historian to analyze history, let historians write history. Time is the best judge he will strip the facts and no one will be able to escape from them. And you're not Fatima or a doctor to treat the sick. You're here today for tomorrow, all of our Bosnian Herzegovic children, with a great desire to create a stable and secure state of economic and social prosperity so our children don't think where they're going. For three and a half years, I have kept myself safe from sinning against anyone, from touching anyone born, from telling anyone the judgments of any reason, and I will ask when the next one comes from Herzegovina to this chair where I sit, to do so. For Bosnia through the centuries was Bosnia's agreement, the land of agreement and the land of tolerance. So I'm sure of my persuasion, and I'm surprised at the people who weigh things in history from the time politics spoke of by force that we've all come out of as losers and I don't want to touch it, because there are competent ones for that. And each of us wears his wound, someone smaller, someone bigger, someone on both the body and the soul, and someone on the soul alone. 158 So, I call on all those who should vote today to realize that this is our step forward for all, that what we could agree at this point is written and signed by people who are on the political scene of Bosnia and Herzegovina and have a certain place both in the legislative and executive authorities, and to make this step, can't change everything for the first time, we just started and I think this is enough to start. So for the first time, we make our deal because this doesn't close the door for us either to Brussels or to NATO. Once again, I want to thank you for your patience with the ambassadors who sit here, who listen to us here for 36 hours, yesterday we started at 9:00 with a little break and have patience for all of this for ours. I thank them and beg them to be as persistent as ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23809	I thank Mrs. Leho. I had two replicas, Mr. Huskić and Mrs. Sopta. Tell me, what is it? Sign up, I've got a report here, a monitor to log on to. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23810	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, it has been a great deal to listen to Mrs. Leho, I fully agree with her that it is a great thing that we can say when we return home, and especially when she returns to Hercegovina to Mostar that she can say that we will have a president instead of the Presidency as all European countries have, that we will have a minister of agriculture like all European countries, just forget to say that we will have an entity vote like all European countries have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23811	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23812	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must replicate my dear colleague Fatima, because my perhaps previous discussion, and the discussion of yesterday's and these replicas were based precisely on her suggestions that occurred recently at an excellency in Europe, where we were visiting me and Mrs. Fatima. Mrs. Fatima spoke so beautifully that I was truly thrilled and told the gentlemen, please don't put any pressure on anyone in these constitutional changes, please don't let anyone feel humiliated and offended. The Hrvat are leaven in Bosnian bread to be kept as a whole. Mrs. Fatima, I'm humiliated and offended today, and I've had a lot of pressure. I am aware that we both need the Presidency and the President and the Prime Minister and the President-in-Office of Parliament because we cannot go to Europe without it. Europe has its standards. But we forget the basic standard of all democratic societies, that's equality, and we leave out equality. I'd raise both my hands for these constitutional changes if I were equal to you. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23813	We said, well before was Mr. Novaković, Mrs. Milićević, so Mr. Đedović, are you in favour of discussion or replica? The replica is still Mr. Sipović, the second replica is two minutes. You know that business, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23814	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying really to keep my rules of procedure. I thought that Dragan Čović was a Hrvat until today, so I guess I realized that Dragan Čović is not a Hrvat. Because Dragan Čović signed something, not as a Hrvat, but as Dragan Čović. The second thing I answered was that I kept hearing for two days that there was no minimum willingness to compromise here. Well, gentlemen, ten months of negotiations and compromise. Ten months of compromise, Mr. Avdić. It wasn't yesterday, it was ten months ago. And the question is, he gave your request to the maximum, or not. That's a big question, a lot of compromises have been made, maybe we could have done something different, so let's say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a million and a half residents in Republika Srpska, two million in the Federation, translated it three to five, translated into a number of MPs, that's thirty-three to fifty-five. From Republika Srpska and the Federation. So people would say, so we're breaking the basic principle, it's not one-third, it's two-thirds. What are you doing with that bill? We're not looking for that bill. But please, we've been making compromises for ten months and you can't pin it on us that it's gone and there's no will for compromises. It's been done and there's been a lot of compromises made, and that's what the signatures show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23815	Thank you. Replica more gentleman, Mrs. Milićević first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23816	Mr. Chairman, I actually had an application for a discussion, which is one intervention, an attempt to get out of this situation. If it's my turn, tell me, if not, to wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23817	If it's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23818	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23819	Then I'd like some more patience. Mr. Sipović, replica. I have a report for the debate, Mr. Andrić, Đedović, Duraković, Križanović, Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23820	Chairman, I would ask you when I answer, to allow me to do my business duty in the right way and to make these comments 160
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23821	I warn Mr. Sipović, every minute I try, work, let's all make a contribution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23822	Please, I won't be under such pressure unspeakable to discuss. Then let me comment too. Please, from now on, you can only give me two minutes, please. After my esteemed colleague from SDA Leho Fatima was here, and there were debaters really on the right background of the responsible MP in front of this country who gave her the voters tried to convince her citizens and her colleagues about our responsibility to Parliament what this country means to us. I was fraternizing why she was attacked like this. Second, please. Now that I've heard only the entity vote, I'm yesterday's distinguished colleague Križanović said I'm from an entity vote, it exists. We couldn't make a deal. Please, from the entity vote, a real bogeyman and counterpart Novaković said that even two-thirds must vote, is not one-third. So it's a relatively enthusiastic vote. But he's made a bogeyman to be a condition to reject everything. Second, third, please. Just to say, I was surprised, the Honorable President, and I surprised Mr Zorić that he did not comment at all on the proposals of his distinguished colleague Lagumdžija, the proposal to use the right of veto and member of the 2nd Constitution, and that the MPs of the party did not accept at all, that they were talking to the party's promoters and representatives on this background. And please, just to say, a very crucial question, you're the president in that context, I thought the bars would open up the discussion, that then, it was a fully effective protection of the vital national interest of a nation. And it doesn't need any law and no decision for this country if, for her in the House of Peoples, she presents herself as a vital national interest, including everything, and then at the point of the last one, she says that with everyone, all the issues can and the laws can be vital national interests that support two thirds of one constructive nation. And I think I was surprised that you were constantly discussing this background, and that you didn't even comment on the president, this proposal offered by a respected colleague named Lagumdžija, to relax and to fulfill his duty to the public in a candlelight tone, towards the international community. And that, I conclude, is not when you offer some constructive proposal, that there is no, understanding, but it's just a matter of blackmail, and this goes on forever.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23823	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. Please stick to the time. We've got the next one, so the schedule. Mr. Đedović. They're looking for a word, here. They're looking for people to say, I've warned that we're bringing an end, no more breaks, you end up with people, who want to say something else, and we're moving on to decision-making. I warned the club presidents to prepare their representatives, to be in the decision-making hall, and I urge the esteemed representatives to accept this suggestion, because lessover, everything is said here. Thank you very much. 161
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23824	I apologize to my colleagues if I'm going to take time again, I'm really talking about trying to find a solution. Today, I warned by believing that those who could offer a proposal would gather together to make us all content, or as pleased as possible to get out of this session. I heard all this happening. I mean, as a man, I really don't mind the principle Mrs. Ruža Sopta said. I really don't. And I'm willing to build mechanisms to ensure that. And I don't think anyone here should be against it. I really don't think anyone should be. Given that fact, I believe we share it all. Considering the fact that we see where this is going. Given the fact that our further discussions, all of us, are further away, I suggest that the session be terminated. I have the right to propose, I have the right to propose, and you have the right to say that is bad, to be one against forty-one, let me speak. To include all parliamentary parties in the conversation to try to find this minimum. Because if we're honest, we're close to a solution. It's a shame to see this go to waste. And we'd better lose two months than four years. We don't have the right to do that. And it is obvious that the people who have negotiated on behalf of Parliament do not have a majority in Parliament. That is why all parliamentary parties should be involved in trying to find that compromise, if we are honest we will find it if we do not lie to each other. But then let's not lie any further about breaking up and going our separate ways. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23825	Thank you very much, Mr. Duraković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23826	I don't have a word, just one suggestion. I don't think this debate makes any sense anymore, she left the point. We are not at all discussing the proposed amendments, but everything and everything. It's become a big public forum, maybe it's not bad at all, so let's give you brothers as presidents to go to the hearing and to sum up this debate and this one, in a few farces from the debate, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23827	I thank Mr. Duraković. I'll give another word to those who signed up. So Križanović, Miličević, Lozančić, Džaferović, and there were reports. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23828	Thank you. Honored members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, colleagues and colleagues. I've even thought about giving up, because it's obvious that in the debate we've all been together so far, I think this is one of the few debates in which almost all colleagues and 162 colleagues have participated several times. We spent a lot of time, unfortunately a small part of the argument, and more on replicas, and remarks that weren't exactly in line with the subject. However, I do not have the ambition to make any new arguments, believing that they will, that these arguments will change already formed opinions on these constitutional changes. But I would like to present one fact that would go towards fellow Đedović's proposal, perhaps we can still show our patience and will to come to a solution. Namely, all of us, who will vote today for, will be in that group dissatisfied with the depth and breadth of constitutional change. They will also vote for those who, who think they are too much change. But also against those who are not satisfied with the breadth and depth of change will vote against those who believe that these are too many changes. We have one thing to say very colorfully arranged mood. The postponement of the motion for delays, by delaying today's plea and by extending the public debate and seeking new solutions for the next two months, I think it would be a complete waste of time and distraction for both us and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from far greater issues, stronger issues for the lives of citizens of this country. Because what could have been achieved as a consensus in this home is a proposal of these amendments. Seeking further changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the promised second phase with the support of the international community could be sought in the new composition of this parliament. So anyway, let's be realistic, not before the election. And let me only ultimately question the distinguished colleagues and colleagues who do not support this proposed constitutional change. If I had any explanation, or an answer to the question of how when and with whom it is possible to make deeper and stronger times of constitutional change, I would be with you. But I am deeply convinced that there is no answer to that question. And for this reason, I will support my colleague Đedović's proposal, if there is willingness among others, to try to find room for further compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23829	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency. Here's me playing the case, so at the end of these discussions. My discussion actually goes in terms of one proposal. I listened well, and I won't repeat what I said again, but I tried to listen to Mr. Lagumdžija after today's break. However, the way and the throws aren't for us to understand in detail, but as far as I understand it, that on today's break, the political party representatives, the break took a little longer, that we stood at the point of view to try, means to go out to avoid the shortcomings that were identified by colleagues from the HDZ 1990 club. And I've heard, in fact, that means one possible variant that's being resolved through the House of Peoples. So there's nothing new left of us has said or been warmed up. It's the only new moment. I would ask you colleagues with whom I have been working for three years, if you should ask for a break, that is, how my colleague Zorić says to call a break and plead, to tell us what they think. We didn't see it in writing, but I realized that there was an agreement on how to say, to say what they think about this proposal so that we as Parliament could understand and know whether it was 163 acceptable for you. It sounded like a way for you to get rid of the dilemma my colleague, Softa, was talking about. In that sense, and for the sake of all the effort and all the work we've done, I'd like you to think about it one more time, if you have to write it down, so that we can all read it together, see what it is, what's controversial about it, and make it clear afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23831	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zorić. I skipped you, Mr. Andrić. Would you like another word? After Mr. Zorić's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23832	I'm angry now. I gave up my proposal, and Mr. Križanović mentioned it here and it all came down to the problem here whether some club was satisfied, or not my colleague with such an indignity, and it was something, it wasn't really caramel, but it's similar to caramel. I don't want to talk to anyone else. Negotiations are over for me. I had one suggestion, which is why I was called a melagoman and I gave up on that proposal. If anyone else will, let them suggest it, I'm willing to support it. But I'm not a megalomaniac, and I've given up that proposal and I'm not going to talk to anyone else about anything else, because it's been said that the generous proposer suggested something and gave us something. I, on behalf of the Club, reject it and say that I am to continue the session, if it's down to us five, changes to the Constitution go without a hitch.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23833	Mr. Andrić, then Mr. Kunić. Replica. Mr. Andrić is waiting half an hour for real.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23834	I'm giving Ms. Miilićević a head start.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23835	Mrs. Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23836	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, if my colleague Zorić has misunderstood. Perhaps I have misunderstood Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and I am withdrawing this proposal, because I am Mr. Lagumdžija realizes that the ways of selecting delegates means seven delegates from one people and the way that these seven delegates who are not single-party and are neither SDSs nor this product are known to choose delegates in how many constitutional changes are adopted, that this is sufficient guarantee to the Croatian people and not to the exclusive club HDZ 1990 or to any other party or Serbian people. I thought it was some sort of basis for further conversation. I'm withdrawing my suggestions and I'm asking you not to take this as an insult.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23837	Thank you. Mr. Andrić, then the replica Mr. Kunić. 164
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23838	I thank Mr. President, I finally got a chance to replicate, but here's what's there and it's good that I waited, because Mr. Lagumdžija was out, so I wouldn't have anyone to replicate. And my colleague Ljilja has re-constructured it. I am really pleased that they have found a solution or mechanism for protecting the collective rights of three constructive peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't need anything, let's just apply it to all three constructive peoples, be the same protection mechanisms and meet the conditions for abolishing that stone by tripping entity voting. Because we have protection through Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal for all three constructive nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23839	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, please. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think it's really been enough time to express our views, we have a formal, legally proposed proposal by the predsedništvo, and I think it's really time to make the point of the proposal. I don't think there's any point in stalling this debate anymore. Please make it clear to see who's in favor, who's against and that we're breaking up already. I think he's the chairman, and yesterday I said that maybe he's too much to tolerate some debate, but well, that's the circumstances, and I don't blame him. So, like yesterday, I suggest that the proposal be put to the vote. So I insist now that the proposal be put to the vote. I propose that the constitutional amendments be put to the vote, i.e. the Commission's report and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23841	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. We've only got one more report for the hearing, that's Mr. Lozančić. Well, when we've given everyone a chance, let's give it to Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23843	It was before the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23844	So I think yesterday's debate, no matter how many breaks, and spending time in the halls has yielded results and he's seen today his sequel. It has been established by all those involved and it is a general finding of the work of the international community that in this agreement, if 165 would have been translated through the amendments into the Constitution, a nation would have been brought into an unequal position. It's a huge shift and it's strange to me that it wasn't noticed when the agreement was returned. It can also be concluded that the agreement is not good. [[or designed not understood]] We really need to activate what the club president was pulling to try in about 60 days, right, for the next two months to come to a better agreement, better amendments. Especially since these amendments that were on the committee were not accepted, except for amendments that should ultimately have two votes more. So we didn't have the opportunity to fix anything on the commission. It's very difficult to fix today's amendments. And it is indeed a major shift once again, I stress that the general finding is that the agreement is weak and that it is to the detriment of the Croatian people. This could have been concluded from all the discussions today and all the suggestions to come up with certain solutions and repairs. And I think it's very difficult today with the amendment, is it also by ensuring that the amendment will be implemented after voting on principles, this one will fix and receive such a text that would bring the Croatian people into an equal position.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23845	Is there a suggestion, then?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23846	Well, I think the president of the club should renew this proposal in two months' time for further work on the draft agreement, new amendments to the better quality for them to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23847	I'm closing up. It's a replica. I'm closing the reports, I was going to say you have the right to a replica, you signed up earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23848	I would take Mr Zorić's proposal if he wouldn't renew his proposals. Let him be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23849	But I'll support him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23850	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, before you are sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23851	Mr. Novaković, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23852	Not before you are Mr. Lagumdžija. .
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23853	Okay, thank you. First of all, I want to, because here I wouldn't, uh, when Zorić says it's explanatory, I didn't want to be this guy, I didn't want to replicate it. But I can see that again and Mr. Andrić, just a little bit, okay. 166 The first proposal I made was the proposal I made here to meet this audience what was proposed at a joint meeting. And terminology, not so I can think of using the termology that someone here needs to, yes. This is the Constitution. And the constitution in principle in every country is the articulized democratically demonstrated will of the majority who saves the minority from that very majority. And in one-national countries, let alone in complicated countries like us. So there's no need for us to be imputing something here right now that I tried to give. I can even mathematically prove to you, on the appropriate numbers, that this mechanism proposed, therefore, I repeat, that without the Constitutional Court, without calling for national interest, if all representatives of one people in the House of Nations are voting against that law then it is not valid. I can also mathematically prove to you that it can be a better mechanism that you sometimes need even, that with this mechanism you can prevent abuse without having in that so-calledentity vote, even if you are Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat. And for every nation, it's possible. And we can do it mathematically on the board and prove who will. So, I was just trying to give you one more attitude, please have everyone in mind. I'm not coming, I'm not suggesting this as a member of this people or that people, but a man who sees this country as his own and like everyone else should feel comfortable in his foot. And for me, it's no problem that anything that all the chosen representatives of one nation, in what the House of Nations say, can't, that I can't, too, but I'm surprised that you pretend that you don't understand. Because if you pretend you don't understand, then means that you're not actually looking for a mechanism of protection, which would be adequate and equally available to everyone. Because the mechanism can be used by both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat, regardless of entity voting. Although you won't, because you won't have a problem. But then, I'm sorry, he'll have to take responsibility no matter what anyone liked or didn't. Here we have a very clear message that we're sending today -- we want to go faster to a normal country, or not. And I know, ruža, dear, that this is far from a normal country now, but that still is more normal than the one we make slower. Otherwise, I agree with the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23854	Please, we've exhausted everything. Please, ma'am, only if you're instruding. I think it's all said. I think it's all said, the debate is closed. Here we had a proposal from Mr. Đedović, who corresponded with the proposal taken over by Mrs. Sopta, and here I am asking the Secretary of the House to interpret this proposal, so that it would not harm the procedure, before moving to a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23855	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I will only apologize if we misread Mr. Đedović's handwriting. The proposal for Mr Đedović's conclusion is – looking at the course of the debate, the importance of the amendment to the BiH Constitution and the fact that there are possible solutions that will overcome most of the opposing positions, with the aim of improving all citizens and peoples in BiH, 167 interrupts the session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House and postpones the 30-day deadline for the proposings with representatives of all political parties to make additional efforts and offers of solutions that will be acceptable to the House and so on. I think this one, we can read this one very, very badly, I'm sorry. It's not appropriate for me. If you'd like, just please, comment. What does this mean, a session break-up? The end of the session, according to the Rules of Procedure, means by using the powers set out in Article 25, he may request the chairman of the House and have the right to do so. But for a shorter period of time. If I understand the proposal well, in this case it would no longer be done on the agenda. And we adopted the agenda – Amendment to the Constitution of BiH, first reading. What does that mean? We're postponing the debate on the matter in 30 days. Please, let me get this straight. Believe me, as secretary, I'm coming to you with full responsibility, to be clear of what we want. Or we want a new report according to the House guidelines, I warn, I warn of business provisions, you know. The Rules of Procedure say - we are on Article 95. So first reading. So Dom's showing up on the next fact. So she went through the procedure all as established in the House's Rules of Procedure. So it's a mandatory point. We in this case mean the proposal is to ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines in line with the conclusion of the House. Right? That's a suggestion. No, no, no. I say business that he can. But the decidan is the proposal of the Proposer – a session interruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23856	Do not interpret it, read the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23857	Please, I'm really sorry, until I got the intervention means something was wrong. So... [[Common discussion]] A session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is interrupted and sets a 30-day deadline for proposing representatives of all parliamentary parties to make further efforts, if you understand the proposal now, please. I'm sorry, I really didn't have one. I'm really sorry if I misread something. I was just trying to come up with some kind of solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23859	Thank you, Mrs. Todorović. Please just for a minute. Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. Just for this conclusion. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23860	My dear fellow chairman, I've been answering my word and
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23861	And you gave up. 168
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23862	Yes, I gave up after the discussion of Mr. Vink Zorić's club president, because after his discussion, it was pointless for me to say anything. But here I am again deciding to come out here and say that a month's delay, I think can only bring more problems than we have right now. And this debate doesn't take long to delay. We need to make the decision as soon as possible. I don't think we've exhausted all the possibilities of having a positive decision at home yet. Mr Lagumdžija made a proposal that, I think, corresponds with what is here from most Croatian people's colleagues speaking for these two days at a pay phone. That proposal goes after the team, not to be in a civil home, because it is inadmissible to introduce an ethnic principle, Mr. Raguž, I am still the vice-president, twice preside over this house. This is a debate on constitutional change. Just give me one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23863	Well, I didn't deny you the right, but you gave up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23864	Don't interrupt me, please. I'll make a proposal. So, please nicely, so this home is immutably and entityically, but we can't lift it. There's no consent. We can't get into it now and ethnically, because it would be a step back from Dayton. But I think my colleague Lagumdžija has offered a proposal worth discussing when it comes to the House of Peoples and when it comes to the protection of the interests of the constituent peoples. That's why I suggest that you give one break of about 15 or 30 minutes, Mr. Chairman, to carry out further consultations on that basis and then to return here to the O.R. and then to decide. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23865	I'm reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23866	The replica was reported by the chairman of the dom, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23867	So the debate is closed. So we have shown ourselves about the solutions and made it clear that they do not satisfy what we were looking for yesterday in front of this parliament and the Bosnian Herzegovic public. It's the same standard in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Nothing more. And you don't need to convince us now that this standard is satisfied. There were opportunities to tell us that you accept that. And I'm clearly told down there that you can't accept it from those who have negotiated. And can't be responsible for those who didn't get that one minimum minimum for a potentially different result of this vote. Here. Thank you very much. The conclusion is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. If Dom insists, I'll put him to the vote. 169 We are in the decision-making phase and I ask the representatives to prepare themselves. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23868	After we just found out, Mr. Džaferović had one proposal. Don't worry about knowing in half an hour whether this country has a change of constitution or not. No problem at all. It's not sugar in the water, it's 15 to 10. By 10:00, it'll be clear. No, it's 15 to 10, so I say 15 to 10. No, we'll get to that news at 10:00 p.m. No problem at all. So, Mr. Raguž, since Mr. Džaferović had a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23869	I answered that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23870	Wait. Well, I don't care what you said. It wasn't me. I have a right to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23871	Well, I have a right to say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23872	You have every right to do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23873	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23874	Well, so do I. I mean, your freedom must be limited by my freedom.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23875	Well, it is, but you're exceeding your freedom in relation to this position that I'm putting into continuity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23876	Well, well, Mr. Raguž, I could just raise my hand and tell you about the end. And then it's a break. So, if I didn't tell you to take a break, so you don't know what we had to take a break, so if I didn't answer later, I'm suggesting that the SDP will take a break. Yeah, 'cause we haven't looked for her yet. No, no. We're not. Error, Mr. Zorić. I know you're in a hurry to take this down and take responsibility for keeping this country in the mud. There's no problem. But I'm going to make you unhappy that you'll wait half an hour for an answer if you've managed to leave this country in the Dayton Jaw and the Call. No problem. So, I'm just a Mr. Chairman, begging a break so that we can do the same ourselves so that, by our conscience, we can get out of what we're taking responsibility for, that we know. One takes responsibility to move things, the other takes responsibility to keep everything the same. One half hour of concentration so I can see what kind of responsibility I want to take. If in those half-hours someone else wants to make some 170 consultations to try to fix something still good and it is. There's the SDP club retreating to its privacy for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23877	Business intervention Mr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23878	You can do it for three hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23879	Well, we'll have half an hour of privacy, and as far as you're going, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23880	I really understand what Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Lagumdžija have proposed, but please as friends, it is not worth asking for half an hour and 15 minutes. It's not worth it. And we all understand that. I said business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23881	It is not understood – it is not included
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23882	Professor, wait. We'll vote. Where are you going?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23883	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23884	Wait a minute, business intervention's in this. Prof. Kunić asked to vote on this whether we would vote right now and before the break. That's how he formulated his proposal. And you need to put his proposal to a vote -- to make the predstavnički of Representatives known, to vote on the need to vote right now. And that's why I'm asking you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23885	Business intervention. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23886	Mr. Chairman in accordance with our rules of procedure when a club one is looking for a break or a break, it is given immediately. The vote therefore did not begin. Break is given. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23887	So at the request of the SDP Club, to be exact 10 to 9 I set a break of up to 9 and 20 when we approach the plea. 171 Dear gentlemen, honourable representatives, distinguished guests, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the Council of Ministers, we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] The debate is closed. We move to a statement on the amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a proposal from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I pray that the representatives prepare themselves and decide on this matter according to their conscience. The debate is over. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we during this debate, many of us stressed the importance of this moment and said that in many countries this was supposed to be a solemn act. In that sense, we sought a break or a break so that we could simply take a break so that in such a nervous situation we would not plead out. In that sense, I believe that we have had time to think about everything again and that we would not have had one situation of any difficulty with the technique, I would suggest this home that a statement on these amendments to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina be made in accordance with Article 69, so a single statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23889	I'm only asking for a minute of patience to consult the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, this request made by Mr Jozo Križanović was established on behalf of the SDP Club in Article 69. The Rules of Procedure and we will honor him. I call on the Home Secretary, Mrs Branka Todorović, who, at point 2 of Article 69 as secretary of this house, is said to ensure that MPs are called individually. Each appointed representative declares that he is against or abstention. A Latin alphabetic order will be used in the title, if the chairman is Bošnjak or Hrvat, or an alphabetic, Cyrillic order, if he is Srbin. Since in this case the President of the Hrvat is, we are going in alphabetical order. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović. Mr. Sead Avdić, things have been brought to the plea of business and everything is respected. It is therefore up to MPs to decide on a proposal for an amendment to the BiH Constitution. There's a vote going on. There's a vote going on, there's no more. Yes, it is. Please, Mrs. Todorović, please. I've concluded all possible discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23890	Mirsad Ćeman – for, - Šefik Džaferović – for, - Hazim Felić – for, - Izet Kunić – for, - Špirić Leho - for, - Nadžida Mlaćo - for, - Mirsad Ljiljana – for, - Milorad Živković - for, - Tihomir Gligorić – v, - Beriz Potočnik - v, - Marija Petar - v, - Azra Dušanka – v, 172 - Adem Križanović - v, - Mirko Blagojević - v, - Zlatko Lagumdžija - v, - Za, - Jahić Sopta – v, - Lozančić, - Jelina Đurković - Momčilo, Za Hrović - Zaljim Senija - Kapetanović, Zam - Lagum – Lagum Jovanović Lagum - Za, - Selim, - Za, - Ibrahim, - Miloš Sead Avdić - Zakod, Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam Mirž, Zam Mirž - Zam - Zam - Zam - Zam Miž
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23891	I ask Mrs. Todorović to publish the results of the vote on the amendment proposal to the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23892	Based on the results of the vote in the House of Representatives, I find that 26 MPs have been declared against the amendment to the BiH Constitution, 16 were opposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-25-0.u23893	This means that the amendment to the BiH Constitution has not received the necessary, two-thirds majority in the House of Representatives and has not been accepted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of this House. This concludes the work of this session. Thank you all for sitting down and finishing work at 10:50 p.m.
