ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24371	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 80th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And at this session, our guests, who we regularly invite to our meetings, and all who are as vertical as you MPs, are also invited. I kostatirati that at this point, 28 MPs are present, that we have enough representatives from both entities and that we can make a full decision. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been invited to this session by invitation to Article 47(3). Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. This means that the session is convened by an emergency procedure within 10 days. In the invitation to the session, you received only one item on the agenda. However, we have complemented the proposal for a agenda with one more point, which is the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes this morning to agree on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. This was a consensus on an extended college. So there were no other demands or additions, and I'm asking distinguished MPs to keep this in mind. Is there a need to discuss the agenda? If it's about the agenda, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24372	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, there have been many conversations in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina these days, stories, difficult words, etc., and all about the last session of the House of Representatives and the statement of the Council of Ministers on Non-acceptance to realize the conclusion of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which was unanimously adopted at the Plenary Session, and concerning the establishment of a committee to determine the truth about events in Sarajevo in the period of '92. '95. A year. We expected in this period that we would get positive signals from the Council of Ministers that this was put on the agenda and that we simply ended up at this stage. I must express my disappointment that we have not received these signals, that the chairman of Council of 2 ministers has remained with his views and in such conditions we think that the debate on some other issues makes much less sense than it was before that session. I would also like to say that we believe that the Council of Ministers must be more responsible for this issue. And not just ministers from Republika Srpska, but all ministers in the Council of Ministers. And not just the MPs I represent, but all the MPs in this house. I must express my regret that I have not received the support of any Federation party, at least not in the media, of any club in this home. Unfortunately, not in the media. Maybe it was somewhere, or maybe I'm not familiar with it. The SDS club appreciates that the Council of Ministers should be given time and responsibility. That's why we won't be attending today's House of Representatives session. We leave it to the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers time to put this item on the agenda and form this committee and to consider our relationship, our relationship with this issue and the future meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly and all those tasks that we have today had the opportunity to hear and from the High Representative. The responsibility for the consequences of this act will have to be assumed by the gentlemen, chaired by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. We are not responsible after Mr. Chairman's statement. I thank my colleagues for their patience while they listened to this. So we won't be attending the House of Representatives session today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24373	Please, you'll all get the word. So we have two replicas. First, Mr. Terzić, being treated by him, then Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24374	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the findings presented by Mr Novaković fall within the category of unintentional findings, since if he wanted to, and says that he sought information and did not receive information about what was going on with the materials and the debate at the Council of Ministers on the mentioned, mentioned conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly. So yesterday I signed the agenda and called the ministers for the sitting. The information given by Minister Kebo in the tenth month of 2004 concerning the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly is one on the Council of Ministers' agenda, and I just want to say that the finding is well-intentioned and if for this reason someone leaves the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be held responsible by the chairman of the Council of Ministers or wishes to share that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24375	Thank you very much. The word has the second deputy president of the House of Representatives, Mr Nikola Špirić. Here you go. Have him prepare for the replica of Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24376	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, so we held a difficult and painful debate last session. I will remind you on 23 January 2004, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted four conclusions. The fourth and this is the case – In the context of meeting existing conditions and international obligations, a section full of co-operation with the International War Crimes Tribunal adds, establish, support and co-operate with the Commission for the Examining of Truths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period '92-'95, deadline 2004. Today, the chairman of the Council of Ministers informs us that he sent a memo to God this morning for tomorrow, and has made public these days while he chaired that the commission will not be formed. I ask you, in order to build full trust, to restore the power of this House's citizens, I have no reason to believe the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the SNSD Club will also not be present today if the chairman of the Council of Ministers is establishing this committee for the day. Let us know. We're ready to come to the continuation of this session. I ask you also to consider obliging the Council of Ministers to work on the conclusions of this House. I won't be angry if he stays and you work, and the relationship and formation of that commission will be a signal to me and the SNSD if we're going to participate in the work of the House of Representatives. And he can't tell the chairman that he's not responsible if this is January 23rd 2004, and today it's May, late May 2006. So on behalf of the SNSD Club, I will not personally attend today, I have no reason to listen even though it is an important problem, the impact and effects of the VAT. It would be good for you all to consider putting this session off, so let's see if the Council of Ministers respected the conclusion or not. I have no need to believe the word of the chairman, because a number of conclusions are not respected, and the disrespect of this conclusion offends every well-intentioned Srbin, Bošnjak, Jevreje and others. Thank you very much. I won't attend and the club won't attend today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24377	Thank you very much. Before I give dr. Lagumjiji, I would like to say here that I, as president of the House, along with kolegij, and the Expansive College, have done my utmost to respect the procedural business conditions for the maintenance of this session and not just these, but every other one that has been held so far. And neither was there, nor today there are restrictions to debate within this house according to the Rules of Procedure, and I think the public should know. And my personal opinion as chairman of this House is that the responsibility of the institutions should be precisely located and that Parliament, or the House of Representatives, should not be denied for continued and responsible action and sitting. And as anyone will act within those sessions, it's his legitimate right. But I am responsible here to say that all the procedural conditions are met that are well-worked and discussed on the agenda as scheduled. I'm doing this for a stenogram and for the Bosnian Herzegovic public. 4 Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked for a replica. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24378	I'm sorry, but if you don't mind, call this whatever you want, discussion, replica, it doesn't matter. I thought Mr. Novaković would wait for you to figure out what's going to happen today and determine the agenda, and then eventually come out. In fact, this is where Mr. Novaković presented one inaccuracies. He probably said more, but I want to talk about one. So it is not true that, at first, it is not true that all parties he expected here to say something about themselves are calling themselves Federation parties. That's the first one. And it's not, in principle, either, I'm not taking Mr. Gligorić down to the RS party, and he doesn't need me at the Federation party. We're already used to it as a matter of some elemental code of conduct here so we don't do what's wrong. But since these Federation parties in its terminology include the SDP, I want to say very clearly here, for the sake of the public – it is not true that we have not been manifested and that this is also anyone's exclusive behavior of parties who like to call themselves parties from the RS. At that meeting on January 23rd 2004, as I recall my colleague Jelina came out with a request and her proposal was, if I am not mistaken, to form a neighbour who will investigate Srbin deaths in Sarajevo. Srbin in Sarajevo, please. It's a Srbin. And I was then one of the debaters who suggested that this conclusion be reformed. And then, as I recall, without the great drama we accepted, I don't even remember if there were a lot of votes against it. I had an interest, as a man who spent the war in Sarajevo, to this Parliament about to give his word. I didn't think it was normal, as the Srebrenica Report was the Srebrenica Report, so it was supposed to be a report on Sarajevo, because there were many more people killed in Sarajevo than there were people from a nation in that city, no matter who it was. And then we agreed that it would be and I can see that today in some media media is trying to rephrase that conclusion, that this is the conclusion of the Srbin death in Sarajevo, not but of the loss of Sarajevo citizens and people who have lost their lives in the city of Sarajevo. Why about the city of Sarajevo, and why not how some bid in Zvornik, Stoc, Foca, I don't know where? Well, because Sarajevo is the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you want to be the capital, then you have to take off all the big doubts that... And I'm particularly against it, and I think Mr. Terzić made one catastrophic mistake, as I have to say the least, because he doesn't need to protect me from the requirement to form a commission here on the victims of people in Sarajevo. I want to know how I got killed in Sarajevo. That's what I want to know. Who pulled the trigger that resulted in me having five dead people on the street in the city of Sarajevo, walking and I being able to survive. And that's why I think Mr. Terzić is defending someone you can't defend. If you want to defend someone with your behavior, then defend them in another way. So that's one thing. Ižeo sorry to be discussing the 2004 conclusion again. That's one thing. And secondly, he had no right to chair the report in May 2006 that he hadn't done his job since a year and a half ago. It's like he was trying to provoke someone here. And then, for God's sake, I find it very ugly for the people who are now gone. I absolutely do not justify the procedure of Mr. Novaković or Mr. Špirić. The least I could do is justify Mrs. Jelina. I don't believe a woman will get out. What's the matter? And you will, I will. I didn't think he'd come out. What's she gonna get out of here when her party president won't get out of that five-man council of ministers? There's some meowing or something. Some sound weird. mjauknuti Mladen, heard Mladen. So I consider absolutely inappropriate behavior, above all by the Council of Ministers, above all by the Council of Ministers and by those who have members of the Council of Ministers, who act as protectors here. He has the right to leave Mr. Gligorić. He's the opposition. As far as I'm concerned. But it is irresponsible, it is irresponsible from Šprić and it is also irresponsible from the High Representative who makes himself French. It's colofial. You're Frankus. You're being silly. No prejudice whatsoever. So, I apologize to the French, I mean for prejudice. So the one who gave us a lecture here about how he expected us to be here in 100 days about who we were going to do something, and he knew that this drama was going on. And what he simply didn't teach these people here from Terzić and beyond how they behave. Not to put us in one of these situations. We have Mr. Chairman, here you have a review of the conclusions of Parliament's House of Representatives. There's about 250 of them. You have the realization of the conclusions of the House of Representatives very detailedly done. You can see that this council of ministers doesn't cut us for a dry plum, so I'm going to use the local jargon. On the coup we had conclusions, we stuffed them with the leg like we didn't exist. They didn't do anything about Corridor Vc, about VAT, which we're about to discuss now, they're not cutting us down again for that dry French plum. The conclusions on the Algerian group of the Council of Ministers have not been taken into account by this parliament. There are no Algerians here in Parliament, so they would probably come out, too. Itd. etc. In other words, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to suspend this session, to inform the country's presidency of this and to see what you do together with the Council of Ministers. This is a situation that doesn't lead anywhere, and then call on the one who lectured us here just now so you can see what he thinks about doing on this subject, and Mr. Chairman would recommend, regardless of everything to start respecting this Parliament and to form this committee, if nothing, if he doesn't really want this commission to exist, the best way that it doesn't exist is that he forms it. Because everything he forms practically doesn't exist. And then we solved the problem. A man formed a commission, a commission did not exist. It certainly won't conclude anything in these 100 days, because it's not in the domain of these priorities that this one gave us homework to do. So, please don't, otherwise I call on Mr. Terzić not to make false homogenisation here before the elections. He doesn't need to protect the Bošnjak. It's in the interest of the Bošnjak to know the truth about how everyone got hurt in this town. And those who have now decided to become bigger Srbin than they think they should be, I mean, I'm ordering really this is so cheap that they won't do it anymore. It doesn't apply to you how much you are and you don't bother. You're not trying at all. You don't drill into your chest here. This is where those who are suspicious, and you fine, what do you care, sit around and tell you who's gonna tell you you haven't been acting right? So I don't blame you at all for my colleague Blagojević when you brought down the uprising, you have to bring this little Parliament down. What difference does it make? Come on, rich. It's not a big tragedy, is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24379	Thank you very much. We have multiple requests for replicas. I just want to repeat once again what I feel as president is a responsibility. I'm not going to interrupt this session myself. There are no reasons for the procedure to do so. While there is a six-procedural basis that a session anyone can get a word for, as he always did. Parliament's decisions are legal and legitimate and these. Or someone likes them or doesn't like them, and they make us bound. All I had was a request for the replica of Mr. Terzić, Jelina Đurković and Sead Avdić, the same replica, and Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Replications. I'm gonna make time for the replicas. Replication is two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24380	So the one who wants to be respected must give up the Mahal and Laddian phases and communicate in a normal way. First, it's not true that I'm protecting someone. Secondly, I guess I have as chairman of the Council of Ministers the right sometimes in this country to say what I don't want to say. If someone can say that they don't want the Constitution to change and that an entity vote is lifted in this House and we all accept it as a fact, people won't. I guess I have a right to say there's a better project. I know I wasn't in Sarajevo at the time of the war and I know how much trouble I have about it. Because it seems that only those who have been in Sarajevo have the right to, let's say the benefits of freedom and the struggle for Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence and the fight against aggression and a series of other benefits. But it's a matter of fate, and we all have to make peace with each man having his own destiny. I wasn't in Sarajevo, and I'm not protecting anyone in Sarajevo. Mr Lagumdžija, I am just saying, and if Parliament has made a decision, that my wish was to speak openly with Parliament on the subject of a better project. What happened in the meantime, a series of circumstances that prevented me from coming to parlament to talk about this subject, although I had a prepared decision to form a commission for the whole of BiH, which, without any problems, can first determine the issue of civilian deaths in Sarajevo. You all gave, after all, and Mr Špirić signed for eight political parties a request to give to his representatives in the task force, under the auspices of the American Peace Institute, which should draft a law on the determination of truth and reconciliation and I don't know everything in it and you all gave yours, and then I got a signal from the international representatives that this is actually a solution to Parliament's demands and that this is the way, and in the end, the question is why this kind of noise is now being raised about something we were supposed to do in 2004 and that, just in May 2006 before the election. What if somebody didn't make a big deal out of it in May 2005? Because it wasn't a political probator. So, I responsibly argue that for all BiH citizens, it is better to form a state commission that should determine the death of everyone in BiH, without any restrictions. To do Sarajevo first, rather than in principle having a request from Mostar, Trebinj, Prijedor, Bihac, and to form a dozen - twenty commissions, which, firstly, will not be able to work by the same methodology. Secondly, the process will stretch, etc. And it was just supposed to be the thing I wanted to share with you. The mistake is, I didn't give that material to Parliament, but I also say that I had such signals from the international community and that you, by your participation in giving your representatives to that task force, actually directed me in the other direction to wait for that law. 7 And it is absolutely not true that I am protecting anyone in this Sarajevo, and in particular it is not true of this malicious connotation that I am against establishing the truth about the loss of Srbin in Sarajevo, because Parliament did not even ask for that commission to be formed. It's a commission for everyone to get hurt.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24381	I thank Mr. Terzić. Replica, first Mrs Đurković, then Azra Hadžiahmetović, Lagumdžija, and I will read the order applied for the debate after people reported. Tihomir Gligorić, Šefik Džaferović, Jelina Đurković, if you stay for the debate, Mr Blagojević, and Avdić. That's the order of the reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24382	So, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I was the initiator at the January 23rd session for Srbin and explained why. The truth is, too, that Parliament has formed this commission and I am pleased, the Commission's name is the conclusion, where it has been extended to both the Hrvat and the Bosniaks and, of course, it is true. It's not true that we didn't ask for this commission to be formed. You have a collection. To the soul, in this collection of unedited conclusions from the Council of Ministers, you don't have the one from that session, but you have restored at least three or four of my parliamentary questions. I never got an answer for them. When will the commission be formed? So, just by forming other conclusions and making them a collection, it's a sign that we're letting the Council of Ministers know that he's not doing his job. I'm already tired of explaining and explaining to the Prime Minister's Council why he hasn't done it so far. So, I will also leave the session at this moment and I will return to Parliament when we get a response from the Council of Ministers that the Commission is formed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24383	Thank you very much. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24384	First, let the chairman, although I have reported on the proposal of my colleague Lagumdžija in terms of the replica, first of all, I, I really want to believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers made one language mistake of construction, which is that the Sarailles Sarajlije the war of some benefits. I know what the word benefit means. I translate it as if we were war profiteers, because we stayed alive all those who lived in Sarajevo, but I really want to believe that the chairman, indeed, was wrong, or that he meant otherwise to express what he said in this way. And I would like all those who possibly pass on to him what it is they call him to correct, because from this structure of his can draw the wrong conclusion. Furthermore, I would also like to remind the Council of Ministers, in general when Parliament concludes something and commits the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, if there are reasonable reasons not to respect the decision, that the argument to Parliament and that is the flow of time from 2004 to today is indeed needed to make use of at least of the Council of Ministers' reactions, if there were persistent 8 reasons to disregard this Parliament's decision, regardless of what decision it is and what decision it is. I'm a colleague of Jelina, no matter what she left here, I really resent the session on her vocabulary. She has initiated a proposal for a conclusion on what the debate was under way, but Parliament has reached a conclusion that was in the form of what was being said and here it should not be expressed that this parliament has added to the loss of Srbin both Bošnjak and Hrvat, Jevreje and others there. I ask you to keep the victims' dignity both in Sarajevo and throughout BiH, not to celebrate the nationality of a victim in any area of BiH, because if we talk like that, then we are, indeed, going back to the past, and in the future, we are likely to talk some other time. Just for a little while, on the occasion of my colleague Lagumdžija's proposal to interrupt the session. I'm neatly invited today. We've all listened to an anthem here. We are on the agenda proposal and please, unless there is a quorum to interrupt the session, or you are required. And if there's a quorum, I really don't see any reason to interrupt the session. With what explanation you will interrupt the session, if there is a quorum, and you have called us and we have listened here to an anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24385	I thank Mrs Hadžiahmetović, who also performed on behalf of the Party for BiH Club and, I said I would not interrupt the session while there was, so I don't know why you warned me when I said twice that I would work while there was a quorum. The replica of Mr. Lagumdžija, the replicas are finished. Mr. Lagumdžija for two minutes, because you went a little longer under the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24386	First of all, I'm sorry, I hope I can pass on these advisors. This, indeed, Mr. Chairman, so the President of the Council of Ministers comes out, he obviously provokes us to leave, the exact man provokes, as he provoked last time, he'll point his finger at the eye simply until you bend your head. A man comes out and attacks that I'm a waver and a lazier. The man shaved this morning and decided to tell me what he saw there. I mean, it's just not right that this way he's trying to turn around, he's saying here, I guess he's not going to do something. Ma, Adnan Terzić may not want what he wants, but the President of the Council of Ministers cannot go before Parliament and I will not implement your decision and, watch out, Mr. Chairman, please, the material 15.5. you sent us as a realization of the conclusions of the House of Representatives. Please, you have here in the sea of these conclusions. What the Council of Ministers did. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, look, Mr. Chairman, in two minutes, I will report to myself again, but the point is that 24.6. I quote to you, Mr. Chairman, that's 24.6.2004 two years ago, the Council of Ministers had a point 16.5. to implement the conclusions of the 4th plenary session. Says the Council of Ministers has concluded that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Kebino Ministry, delivers information to the Council of Ministers, who is doing something, with a proposal for measures, and related to the implementation of the conclusions brought to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives at the 4th. The plenary session on the establishment of support for co-operation with the truth-examining Commission on the victims of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej in Sarajevo in '92. - '95. You can see from this that people have already discussed this and had the conclusion given to the minister, and it was already necessary to see 9 co-operate with that council of ministers with that commission they made. And the man decided after two years to tell you he wouldn't do it. Watch out, what a hoax it is. They're telling us here that they're not gonna do something that they did and that obviously didn't give us any results. And now we're talking about one completely pointless thing. What about the missing persons institute? We have three directors yet to form a board of directors and a board of directors. That's what the Council of Ministers needs to answer about. What was in the report on the work of the vjeće of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, the last time the Council of Ministers chaired the Council of Ministers had a report on the work on 13 January 2003 when Mikerević gave the report, since then this council of ministers has never given a report on the work. So I'm telling you again, if the agenda point is something that we who are going to make the conclusions of some, and we should, we don't have a procedural opportunity to reach any conclusion if these people leave. So, because we don't have one-third of the people in the RS and the procedure of what we're going to sit down and we can't conclude anything when we can't proceed. I don't mind. So, Mr. Chairman, I ask you as a College to inform the Presidency of the State of what is going on in Parliament. To inform you to sit with the Council of Ministers that you are looking for a session of the College of Parliament with the heads of the ruling coalition parties, do whatever you want, but with the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, to commit the Council of Ministers to the Council of Ministers could tell us that we haven't realized that we gave you the Keby conclusion, they haven't realized. They haven't solved anything, and that's the answer, which is why these people wouldn't have to leave, but a man just loops what he's done. Which, because he will and, in the end, Mr. Chairman, I find it embarrassing, scandalous. If I had a parliamentary majority of the cantonal and city council, I would declare the prime minister a person non grata in this city. Shame on him. Shame on him, Mr. Chairman, because he calls the people who were in the ring in Sarajevo the war profiteers who had the benefits. He's not ashamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24387	The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Presidency, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests and, of course, the media, because we are all deep in this story, I want to say on behalf of the Mixed Club on behalf of Professor Kunić and Mr. Blagojević, but here, Mr. Blagojević has come forward and he will say something himself, that Mr. Terzić's statement is a fact in BiH, that's all there is talk about. Whether he said it on purpose, clumsyly, or otherwise, I don't want to argue about it. He was in the last session very nervous, and I had to point out that he was nervous, but he was said to disrespect Parliament. Because both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly have reached a conclusion. We're not going to talk right now. Professor Lagumdžje was talking about 42 pages, 72 conclusions, which they didn't respect. I want to talk about parliamentaryism. He's the highlight of democracy. And he finds himself chairing the Council of Ministers from the executive government and says it's not worth it to me. I'm not gonna spend it while I'm chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues. This is a blow to Parliament. If the parliamentary crisis occurs, Mr Lagumdžija, then the primary responsibility is borne by Mr Terzić, because he said here he would not respect what the executive power must do and that is the principle in any parliamentary democratic life. Here was the occasion of a commission to determine the truth about the death of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, Jevrej and others in the period of '92. '95. A year. But it's about any man, any continent, no difference in 10 races, color, faith, etc. We got here from Mr. Terzić thrown a glove in his face. We are now guarding this Parliament. I don't think of it, so here in this House the members of this House, because he told us. We chose him, of course, I didn't choose him, because I know they're incompetent, where I'm going to choose them, I knew it three and a half years ago, and you're three and a half years behind some, but you chose them. Or we chose them. In that case, they must carry out what Parliament has ordered them to do. Mr. Terzić has no right to talk about a new project. We told him what to do and it's his to make it happen. What rises above Parliament. And he's proposing to us some new projects, in terms of, you know, I don't like that conclusion, I won't respect it. You can't accept that. I don't mean to suggest what in this country, which institutions need to do their job. Whether it's the Presidency, whether they'll meet urgently today in the day, that's their problem. Until the next session, they have the opportunity to realize this conclusion. He can handle it in one of three ways, Mr. Terzić. He can resign. Here, now get in, and I have to tell him. I think those of the U.S.A. will regret not supporting my initiative, because it's caused a lot of problems and the U.S.A. with its statements, but that's your problem. We also have the opportunity to put pressure on this parliament, on its conscience, that after this which will not conclude Parliament, because you have made that clear, you have nowhere to go or we have nowhere to go. You stay on your side and you won't, and you have to, you're not at all able to talk about a new project. Our conclusion may be bad, but you have to spend it, it's binding for you. You can't negotiate with Parliament. It's not a market. If you respect that conclusion, we continue to work normally in Parliament and it is not fair that the crisis from the Council of Ministers is being transferred to this Parliament, which has worked very well. And there's you, Mr. Raguž, in that part of the right, or we're gonna have to honor our conclusion and get rid of it. Maybe it's the happiest solution for a man to resign. You gave the public word that you wouldn't do it and I wouldn't do it if I were you, I wouldn't do it if you gave the public word. And we must insist on this, because Parliament is above the Council of Ministers. You have a medium solution to resign as a moral act and someone will take it as good, and someone may not. What Mr. Professor is. The Lagumdžija talked about going out or not dating some people, let me tell you, I want to stand up as correctly as possible and I've been trying in this House. Because I don't see any purpose in this House to stay and work. What if I tell the citizens about democracy and parliamentaryism as the highlight of democracy, when a man says it's worth nothing to me, I'm above Parliament. What am I supposed to do here? If we're going to build such a Parliament, where we're going to make a precedent for some future events, then really, I don't belong in politics or in this Parliament, and that's one of the standards you're talking about. And while you're here, Mr. Terzić, let me tell you. To talk about Euro-Atlantic integration, to introduce yourself as a reformer, to the international community, you have one face, and in front of internal relations or internal opportunities in BiH, you have another face causing conflict situations. You're a conflicting person. You're causing a parliamentary crisis. You are not in a position to coordinate internal integration within BiH, but a conflict situation, which, behold, is being transmitted that Parliament is coming into crisis. So, I'm asking you to think about it. You have one half chance to take advantage of it. You may be using it because of the desire for authority behind the chair, etc. So you'll do it urgently. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24389	Mr. Gligorić, let's hold on. I've given enough time to elaborate the demands.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24390	Mr. Chairman, I will answer you now. Not in the sense of what he tells me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24391	I just asked you to take care of the circumstances, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24392	It's okay. You told Mr. Raguž about the continuity of the House of Representatives' work and that you don't think to interrupt the work of this representative home. I remind you of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24393	I'll respect him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24394	When one third, or when they leave the entity one third, you must automatically interrupt the session and I, too, leave this session, I will return to the parliamentary bench only when Mr. Terzić honours the conclusion of this representative home, because it is his obligation and there is no way to talk about his projects, the moderations, the variants, which would amnesty him to conclude this representative home. So this really is a kind of farce. Please keep the integrity of this House. We've done well this whole period. We had a problem with such an executive power which, as it is, is unfortunate, but I ask you to preserve the rise of this Parliament and that this Parliament finds ways and strength to respect one of the series of conclusions, which were not respected by the Council of Ministers and Mr Terzić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24395	Thank you. Replica Mr. Džaferović and we will approach the quorum's determination now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24396	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know this House of 42 MPs, according to the current one, it might be interesting to hear this, if you don't have to. Of the 42 MPs, 28 MPs are from one entity and 14 MPs from another entity, such is the BiH Constitution, as the structure of this parliament is doing so. It is, therefore, the right of all of us to participate in the work of this Parliament. I am afraid that some people who perform today in a way that leaves Parliament's session have not forgotten that it is at the same time a commitment, is an obligation to participate in the functioning of the BiH state institutions and it is a very important and very important Dayton obligation or obligation of the Dayton Constitution of BiH. This Parliament, it cannot function under any blackmail, the type if this is not this, I will not participate in this work or in the work of this Parliament. Anyone acting that way must know that he is in violation of the key provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that's anti-Dayton behavior for me. I said it in public last night and I speak here in Parliament. I am not binding a debate on the Council of Ministers' behaviour and the Council of Ministers' relationship to this conclusion. Chairman Terzić said what he intended to do about it, but I came out 12 to say it here, because I think we are entering a very serious situation with this kind of behavior and here, in my opinion, it will not be enough just to intervene us from the College or the Presidency of the State. I also think this is a matter for the Peace Implementation Council and for the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is a serious situation for me, this is the first time in four years of this term to put blackmail and conditioning before this parliament for its future work. I have come out to say this for the sake of a stenogram and let this be known and take good care of this fact those who today make it impossible for this Parliament to meet its obligations. And when Parliament doesn't work in this country, then you know what can be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24397	I would like to thank Mr Džaferović and as chairman of the Constants that, according to Article 52, we do not have the necessary entity presence at this time and that we do not have the conditions to continue the work of the sessions that we will continue. And I will immediately, after this call to the College and consider the justified suggestions and demands of respected representatives about the way. We don't have a quorum. We don't have a sir. You will continue to continue the session and you will receive your first word. I've been warned four times that I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Please understand me. I am obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure and that is what I am now assigned to. Nothing else. The session was suspended at 14:45. 13 Dear MPs, honored guests, please take your seats because we will continue the work of the 80th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. _______(?) There's no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24400	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I must say that, before this session itself, I have suffered for a reason the criticism of MPs from all political parties from the Republic of Srspka that this session was scheduled, and there are no grounds why they left the previous session. Namely, the Council of Ministers was obliged to form a Commission for the Victims of Serbs, Bosniaks, Croats, Jews and others in Sarajevo within 10 days. The Council of Ministers has not completed the job, has not delivered a report to the MPs and they do not think it is good to continue the work of this session until the Council of Ministers has done its job. They have informed me that they are working and participating in the work of parliamentary committees without being ready to attend the plenary session until the conclusion of both homes of the Parlametarian Assembly is realized. I regret that the Council of Ministers has not taken this seriously and that time has not spent forming that committee. It is not a matter of who will obstruct both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and in what way. So I think, unfortunately, we will not have a chance today to discuss important matters, and I ask you to understand me, too, and colleagues to understand that the Council of Ministers has to do its part of the job in order to create conditions for a normal democratic development of events and debate on all important issues. So, MPs, the public, to say they've come, they're here, they don't want to attend the session until they get an answer as to why the terms haven't been removed, or why the Council of Ministers didn't do their job. I ask you to understand me as a colleague. I have therefore given consent in the College to schedule a session, thinking that the Council of Ministers will take seriously that Parliament is not a toy skating capable of playing and implementing decisions and in that sense I will not attend today's session. I must regret that this behavior, to express my regret, is for the public that this is not the Council of Ministers' behaviour in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the Council of Ministers finishes the job in half an hour, MPs will be in the O.R. and continue their work. If it's over tomorrow, they're ready tomorrow. I don't want this to be taken as a boycott of work by the public for Parliament's sake. People work in committees and expect the Council of Ministers to finish their part of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24401	I thank Mr. Špirić. Before I give my word to Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I think you should stay here and let Nikola get the public's insight and from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on these qualifications that have been presented here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24402	He doesn't care because he knows what he's saying isn't true.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24403	You will get word to Mr. Terizić and I want to say for the public's sake means that immediately after the end and the end of the last session I held a meeting of the College, I informed the public that there are no constitutional, legal, business conditions to contest the work of the House of Representatives and its continued work. I called the chairman of the Council of Ministers who informed me that they had placed the first item of the Council of Ministers' agenda on the establishment of the Commission and received the agreement of Mr Špirić on the appointment of this session today and the continuation of the session, the eighth. So all the conditions regarding the responsibility of me as chairman and members of the College are met. And if today comes again to the same situation, I think it will be necessary to give a clear answer to who is responsible for questioning the work of the most important legislative institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I give you my word now, Mr. Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Member of the College of Mr. Špirić, in various ways of speculating information, trying to make the Council of Ministers responsible for things that have not been done, and the task is, among other things, from Parliament. So, I responsibly argue that the Council of Ministers, after its session last Thursday, made a decision and formed a commission. We gave the Ministry of Human Rights a period of 7 days, so until last Thursday, that a similar decision would propose the names of the board members to the Council of Ministers to verify that. At last session, Thursday, before we moved on to the agenda, the question was why are there no members of the committee's names? We received a clear answer from the Ministry that no government, but I repeat, any government being treated in the decision, so neither the Government of Republika Srpska nor the Government of the Federation, nor Canton of Sarajevo, nor the municipal structure of the former Sarajevo city community since '86. '95. they have not delivered the names of the members of the commission, the proposals for the members of the commission. And the Ministry simply couldn't do anything about it. Meanwhile, the Republika Srpska government, during this week, sent the names of candidates, sent by the government of Canton of Sarajevo, the Eastern Sarajevo Assembly sent, and we are awaiting further procedure of the Federation government. They're having a session today. I'm guessing they'll be sending these materials today. So there is no reason why the Council of Ministers is accused that we have not formed this commission and there are probably a number of reasons why, I think this parliament should, at least in this composition, discuss why Mr Špirić and Republika Srpska MPs leave this parliament. It has much broader reasons than putting together a commission for Sarajevo. I responsibly claim that the Council of Ministers is not to blame for today's situation and for leaving the session today. I also assume that I am the content of information on the introduction of VAT to some in this room, especially those who have advocated differentiated rates, such as Mr Špirić, is not responding and I think that is also one of the reasons why we are dragging with the acceptance and discussion of information the Council of Ministers supported. So the Council of Ministers is absolutely not responsible for today's situation, and Mr Špirić uses information in his speculant manner to get the public impression that the Council of Ministers is responsible why today's RS lawmakers do not want to attend the session. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24405	Thank you very much, Mr. Terzić. The word is from Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the first deputy president of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24406	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will get out of here from the scene, so last time I claimed this was a very serious situation. Today it was confirmed. This is not only the blockade of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, but also the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. No Niko has the right to condition Parliament's work and no one has the right to obstruct Parliament's work. Anyone who does this must be held accountable. I suggest we address the High Representative with this situation. This is a very serious situation and the Peace Implementation Council, as I said last time to see what to do in this situation. No Niko has the right to obstruct the work of the state parliament. This is anti-daytonal and anti-constitutional action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24407	Thank you very much. The word was sought by Mr. Elvir Jahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24408	Thank you, Chairman. I think that we are really in an extremely serious situation, because this is not just about leaving Parliament because of this commission. When we see these days, the last 15-20 to a month all of these statements of the separatist statement, anti-constitutional statements, statements about the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina that come primarily from the SNSD, their leader Milorad Dodik or some other leaders, such as yesterday, Mladen Ivanić, and if you want the chairman, Mr Špirić, who is taking the genocide and ethnic cleansing base of the Republika Srpska area for the referendum. And he says that 95% of RS citizens would declare an independent RS, and it is known that there has been genocide and ethnic cleansing and organised persecution from the population. All this suggests that we have an organised campaign to destabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina, to bring down its constitutional order, territorial integrity, etc. Obviously, this is how all reforms that have been implemented are destabilised and challenged, and these reforms are going towards strengthening the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the overall political security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is complicated and destabilised. Here's the other day we've had these statements and this behavior of Špirić and what Dodik's behavior has for the result that bombs are being dropped over the Palam on the Bosniaks who came there. Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament, MPs at the House of Representatives and delegates in the House of Peoples have committed to protect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we are obliged to protect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are obliged to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why we're paid. And these people who don't come, who deliberately block it, are doing everything possible to destabilise the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one can convince me, and anyone here who is well-intentioned to this country knows very well that this is not an accident and I have to conclude, unfortunately, that representatives of the international community, first of all, of the Office of the High Representative and of the Peace Implementation Council, in one ignoring way, refer to all of this. 17 So we have now seen that, among other things this name, the commission is formed, but the names are not there because the RS government has not delivered the names and that Milorad Dodik has not delivered the names, and is now talking about some division of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is blocking the highest legislative, highest-ranking body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am also asking the chairman and vice-president to take all contacts, so that right now, at this point, he contacts the High Representative, to now provide a meeting with the Peace Implementation Council and to resolve this situation, because this is anti-Dayton action, and the Office of the High Representative and the Peace Implementation Council is required to prevent anti-Dayton action. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24409	I thank Mr. Jahić. The word was requested by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24410	I, of course, welcome you all, and I am really in the dilemma of how much it makes sense now that Mr Špirić and Mr Spiric are going out and not having these people from the RS say things to themselves without people hearing it. But in any case, the Party for BiH MPs' Club is expressing a strong protest for this particular thing, which is for us an absolute destruction and blockade of the work of the Bosnia and Hercegovan Parliament, that is, its representative home. That is why we call on the MPs who have left, or who do not attend the session to carry out their duty because the citizens have chosen them for it. We suggest we hold a session of the Expansive College and discuss this matter. So before we call the High Representative, so we have a responsibility here with us to try to actually solve it. Yes, and as Mr. Špirić, he does something to the public. I do not believe that he regrets, he is simply part of the destruction and blockade of this parliament's work. And that's the philosophy we've been against all along, understanding this home. This isn't the House of Entity, this is the House of Citizens. And I call on the RS MPs to carry out the obligations they have made to the citizens. And when it comes to commissions, it's not after color everyone's smart. We're going with a series of initiatives now, starting with Prijedor, etc. come out with a request for a commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24411	Thank you. He was still looking for Mr. Sipović, so Mr. Bešlagić and Avdić, Duraković. That's the order. Please, for a moment. We heard everything. Respect that. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24412	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members, colleagues, representatives of the international community, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, dear media, media representatives. Indeed, the sad picture, I really feel for the need as an MP in this House who I have signed an oath to implement the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement and all the laws in the interest of the citizens and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I feel the need and the public to address it. 18 We confirm all of this that we have indeed fallen into a crisis in the work of this Parliament, it is obvious and crisis to the institutions of the system. And I support it to be formed, to conclude today that this serious crisis, because we do not have, has not been given the legitimacy of any of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that this is the case for any citizen who was involved in this kind of obstruction and crisis when we are on our way to Europe, to the EU. To inform the Bureau, the High Representative of the international community and the Council of the implementation of the crisis and to take over, in accordance with the powers conferred by the High Representative, certain appropriate measures. In addition, I add, gentlemen, when I was here when the first phase of constitutional amendments reform was adopted, the amendments to the Constitution, I sensed that this crisis would occur. And from, I think this crisis is complicated by a variety of certain things and pre-election campaigns. I therefore believe that one and one of the reasons for obstruction is to a good degree not to adopt amendments in this home. And that should be said openly and clearly, and it should be made clear to all the winemakers both of these obstructions and those who take appropriate measures. I really feel that I felt it was necessary for both the context and the crisis of this Parliament and the crisis of the government and all that and not to implement the police reform as outlined, as agreed and all other things will be agreed. I think that this crisis, without the participation of the international community and the High Representative, the Implementation Council, the EU, the United States and other signatories of the Dayton Agreement, we couldn't, we couldn't do it alone, we couldn't handle it ourselves. That's obvious. I should inform international factors that have their powers and their responsibilities for implementing this Dayton Agreement. And I believe that, again, without their direct participation and engagement, I am not optimistic that we will get out of the crisis, and especially now the purpose of the October month election in this consolidation of relations, political relations, completely polarised, completely against the Dayton Agreement, against everything in all aspects.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24413	Please give the replicas now to stop. You'll all get the word in a row. I don't think there's any need for that. I said what I said, you'll get your word if you look for Mr. Potočnik. Don't let us pollemize now. Tell everyone your views on this situation who will. Don't open up a replica at the beginning. Mr. Bešlagić answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24414	I'm looking for a replica. I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24415	I'm running a session. I can give the replica, I can not give.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24416	And you're joining.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24417	I'm not joining, but please report for a hearing. I don't want it now. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24418	Dear gentlemen, I'm looking for a replica because it's not true what Mr. Sipović said. The situation we're in just proves what would have happened if the amendments had been accepted. That's one thing. And the international communities in that case wouldn't be there, nor could they intervene. So what he said isn't true.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24419	Thank you very much. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Sipović. Come on. I knew what was going to happen, but for a minute now, I'm sticking to my watch. No more two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24420	Well, I'm fully disputing the reaction of the MPs, the esteemed Potočnik to my findings and my thinking, because he was one of the winemakers who broke the amendments to the Constitution. So, then what would have happened if we had adopted the Constitution. To adopt the Constitution, the state would be much safer and stronger and perhaps some things could be prevented. Gentlemen, this is how gentlemen have contributed to this condition. I didn't say, I told the defendants who obstruct the session of this Parliament and the work of the government and the institutions should be sanctioned in the right way, and I also said we should be credible chairman and bear responsibility. I, as a man who advocated myself as an MP, advocated the implementation of the amendments and as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, was fully aware of the seriousness of the case and I said here, remember when I suggested that this Parliament be able to have political consent to go to constitutional amendments. These other ongoing reforms, as ordered by the High Representative, are included, the adoption of the laws until the elections. And in that context, why close your eyes that is also one of the causes of the crisis. And I ask you full responsibility, and I'm a moralist, and I'd like to give it to the citizens when I propose that this parliament be dissolved, I'd like to resign.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24421	Mr. Sipović, two minutes for the replica has expired. Thank you very much. You'll get a replica. You'll get a replica. Please, I've asked you all to set ourselves in principle according to this very important thing, so I wanted to avoid the replicas at the beginning. Mr. Sead Avdić replica. You all know you have two minutes to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24422	So I apologize and support Mr. Chairman for simply not being a good ally of politics and I suggest that cold heads think about this issue. Which means I'm warning Mr. Sipović that he feels like he doesn't know what he's saying, because he's completely mixed up the thesis. This is the height of irony and nonsense Mr. Sipović is talking about. I have to be sharp like this. Why am I saying that? Because he's trying to abuse one legitimate legal decision of this Parliament and make an apprehension with MPs who are not in the House of Representatives' benches today. It's the height of irony and stupidity. Really, I repeat 20 more times. Thank you for this abolization that you are simply trying to justify an anti-Dayton gesture and seek the starting point and foothold in one legal, legitimate decision of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24423	Thank you very much. Replica Sipović. This time the second replica is a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24424	I have no intention of replicating Mr. Avdić, my colleague is not only replicating you, but he is doing the public here and the citizens. Do not replace the the thesis of making Sipović, the MP did not say that he was making an upheaval for those who obstruct the work of the institution and this parliament. I asked if, if you take a stenogram, I asked that all the winemakers who obstruct the Dayton Agreement and the work of the system institutions take appropriate measures. But allow me, Mr. Avdić, I have the right as an MP to present my judgment and my opinion of certain matters as I have always said and you will not dictate to me what I shall say. And what you've found yourself an opponent of constitutional reform in that context to say it's a legitimate and legal decision, that's your business. Is how political she is, that's your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24425	Time, I gave everyone a chance. Please answer the word, Mr. Avdić. I gave it to everyone, please I gave every word. The time for another replica is up, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24426	And gentlemen, time will come.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24427	Please, so I give you my word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I have provided you with the conditions to say. I'm asking the MPs to let me run the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24428	Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24429	You're out of time, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24430	...and who you as a university professor, as your colleague, are so out-of-civilized that you interrupt and throw away.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24431	Please don't let me interrupt the session before we make a deal. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24432	And you, sir, Mr. Avdić, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24433	The replica is complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24434	Do I say stupid things? Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24435	Please, I'm fixing a break. I'm calling the Extending College, the Chiefs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24436	Please, you just want me to
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24437	Club president, meeting to discuss work. The apartment lasts until half past noon. The break, ladies and gentlemen, has expired. At this point, I find it in accordance with Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives that according to the record we have here on the monitor of 24 MPs, we have the necessary entity majority to work from the Federation. There are only two MPs registered from Republika Srpska. So we don't have the 13 that's necessary for the quorum, so there are no conditions for continuing this session of the House of Representatives. Another thing I want to say here, once again in front of the public, is that I have scheduled the meeting in agreement with the members of the College and with their agreement and Mr Džaferović and Mr Špirić, previously speaking with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and demanding that the conclusions of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly be realised at the Council of Ministers by obtaining confirmation that a decision has been taken to form a commission and after that, by obtaining agreement to continue, to schedule a continuation of this session. And I believe that all the conditions for continuing the work of this session have been ensured procedurally, and that all open issues for the implementation of the Council of Ministers' decision need to be discussed in this House. The responsibility should be taken over by all those who question today the quorum for the work of this home. As the College, we will declare ourselves immediately after the session and inform all relevant structures that should be informed about this. I tried to create a political environment at the Expansive College to continue our work. As we see this environment, given the relationship between some clubs and representatives, there are no and at this point I can only conclude that there is no quorum and conclude the work of this session. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 12:00. 22 Dear representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. We continue with the work of the 80th session of the House of Representatives, and this time we have invited our guests, who we regularly invite to our meetings. Once again, I warmly welcome you. According to the Service's report, I find that there are currently 28 MPs present. Of that, 20 from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 8 from Republika Srpska. So we have a quorum for the full decision-making and work of this home. I remind you that the session was interrupted last time at the very beginning because we had no quorum due to the absence of Republika Srpska's MPs from the Serb people's ranks. I'm glad we have a roof of this size today and we can work. In the invitation to the session, you received only one item on the agenda. The College subsequently proposed that we put another item on the agenda, which is the appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes to agree on the same text of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Public Procurement Act. This was also agreed by the Extended College before the start of the 80th session of 24.5. Is there a need to discuss the agenda? Thank you very much. I find that the 80th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda: 1. Information on the first effects of introduction of value added tax for the period of January - March 2006 by the applicant of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. The appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes in order to bring the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act into line. We're moving on to the first point. Ad.1. Information on the first effects of VAT for the period 01. - 03.2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24440	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed present to our guests, I must express my regret to the people who are here and announced that they will be. I think it is a good thing that this many and quality delegation has been announced, that we do not have a chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers present, we may have missed something, meaning we do not have someone outside the office of Mr. Chairman, which we do not have Mrs. Ljerka Marić, Minister of Finance and Budget and a member of the Management Board for indirect taxation. So we don't have any official people who signed this report in the Council of Ministers, which, I suppose, is a product of work and of what people were doing here. So my question is, will we have Mr. Terzić and Mrs. Marić at the session today?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24441	Thank you very much. They're all neatly invited, they're all neatly communicable. We're moving on with our work. We expect answers from the Council of Ministers. The word has Mr. Sipović. If it's an intervention, because the word has to be discussed, Mr. Čaušević. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24442	Before Mr. Čaušević approaches, I would like to join these remarks, only one suggestion from the chairmans of the Finance and Budget Commission. I think it is necessary that she should have met this esteemed home about the results of the dialogue we conducted with IMF representatives in this matter, headed by the BiH director. I believe, however, that before the debate opens, the president should get to know this esteemed domicile on their thinking, on our dilemmas and suggestions, on the debates, on the initiatives in this House to amend the law on value added tax. In order for a more quality debate to be, in this context, I consider it necessary because the president did not really have the opportunity to deliver in writing to the House of Representatives the course of discussion, the results of the agreement, which we had with the distinguished representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24443	I thank Mr. Sipović. Mrs. Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24444	I thank Mr. Raguž, well, nothing, I was thinking, so you read from our report in fact how the commission phase went about this information. After his colleague suggested, I thought I'd explain the views after the presentation of Mr. Čaušević, and if that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24445	I think it's correct and you'll get the first word after Mr. Čaušević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24446	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I can only talk about part of this information relating to collected incomes, tax discipline and related to the volume of coverage of imports by export. As you can see on page 4. The information that was delivered to you, revenue for the first three months of O.G. They're up 32%. Here I'm talking about the income from indirect taxes Comparing them with revenue from indirect taxes for the first three months of last year. Let me remind you that in indirect taxes other than VAT, customs, excise duties and tolls are included. Before the official establishment of the Direct Taxation Directorate, these indirect taxes amounted to two billion and eight hundred million marks, and the plan for this year is three molyards and five hundred million marks. If we look at only one indirect tax, additional value tax and compare it to sales tax, income in the first three months o.g. compared to the same three months of the previous year, they increased by 52%. The request of the Commission for Finance and the budget of the BiH House of Representatives was to provide information that would paint fresh conditions. With today you can provide information for the first five months of O.G. which is printed here, I will then divide it to you and 25 which proves that the trend of good income growth is maintained for the first handful of months o. g. as it was for the first three months o.g. Namely, for the first five months of O.G. The total indirect taxes amounted to a billion and a quarter of one million marks, I say, total indirect taxes, meaning VAT, customs and excise duties and tolls, and the VAT revenues themselves for the first five months of O.g. were 961,216.000 dark, which we maintain a 45.40% trend compared to the first five months of last year. Also, the characteristics of the VAT law are, right to return the entry pretax. Namely, Article 32. The VAT law stipulates that all those legal entities that have a higher entry pretax than the exit tax obligation have the right to return to the entry VAT. To the soul, in the first year of VAT administration in 2006, there is a return to those export-related enterprises, so that for the first three months o.g. In total, around 47 million KM were returned to exporters for the first five months, amounting to around 80 million KM. Reimbursement of the entry pre-tax due to Article 72. The VAT law, it doesn't apply to those companies that deal exclusively with domestic traffic. On this basis, on 31.5.2006, there are 59 million KMs, approved rather than used tax credit. These funds are on the reserve account, which is opened at the Central Bank and at any time, if there is any change in the legal solution, we are ready to return to companies dealing only with domestic traffic within Bosnia and Herzegovina. This growth in income, if we wanted to talk about the efficiency of collecting income from VAT, it would be correct to compete with countries in our neighbourhood, which were introduced before us by VAT. Croatia introduced VAT in 1998, and Serbia introduced VAT in 2005. When comparing income growth in the first quarter of O.G. in BiH, we see that it is significantly higher than the growth of income in Serbia and Croatia in the first three months of introducing additional value tax in those countries. What has affected this much income growth? Certainly a unique rate that allows much broader coverage of taxpayers in BiH, but also how to send tax returns. In fact, we send 36,000 addresses to BiH every month for VAT applications, for the purpose of constantly reminding taxpayers to follow the tenth in the next month when they are obliged to apply for the previous month. Because of this state of tax returns, we have a situation that over 98% of VAT debtors submit their applications and pay their VAT obligations. How VAT affected the coverage of BiH exports. Very positive. Before the formation of the Direct Taxation Board, the coverage of BiH exports was 28%, so every 100 imported KM of BiH exported goods worth 28 KM. All I'm talking about here is the coverage of imports by exporting goods. Namely, we are in charge only of goods while there is a certain coverage of imports by exporting services, but the data is only owned by the Statistics Agency and by the Central Bank of BiH. Also, the Finance and Budget Commission requested fresher, as I say, information on 31.5. o.g. The same trend as on 31.3. o.g. Namely, on the day of 31.5 o.g. Imports to BiH amounted to slightly less than four billion, and exports from BiH amounted to slightly more than two billion. So we still have the coverage of imports- exporting over 50%, normano that 50% is not enough considering that BiH is the only six republics of ex Yugoslavia that had more exports than imports, but starting with the fact that before the introduction of the VAT and before the formation of the Directorate for indirect taxation that 26 coverage was only 28%, we consider that BiH's export economy came into a very good position because of this right to return. So, these 68 million affected either reducing the cost of BiH's export economy or increasing their profits. So it's about the right to return to the entry pre-tax, which is paid by large systems, such as Aluminium, Picker, Mital Steel, and for the cost of el. energy, gas and similar energy costs and all other import raw materials. In public, there were certain skeptics, whether there really is such exports, or whether there is fictitious exports. I can responsibly confirm to you that there are no such cases. In this growth of exports, the largest part, or over 90%, refers to large systems such as Mital stil from Zenica in the first row of Balkal, which exports the ore that the Chooser Birač in Zvornik and Aluminium. So, unfortunately, we do not have a large number of exporters and it is the fact that the existing large exporters have dramatically increased their exports. Imports have fallen slightly for the simple reason it is now necessary to attach to the BiH border a bank guarantee that will cover VAT payment costs. If the importer does not pay that cost within 10 days, we activate the bank guarantee and make the payment. The introduction of VAT was paid at the border on imports of only five products, these products of high oil tariffs and oil derivatives, spirit and tobacco processing, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, while now all 11 000 BiH customs tariff goods must be paid VAT on imports. As for the part of the information, i.e. relating to the amount of income from 31.3. and 31.5., and to the volume of external trade, which relates to the same dates, it ended. I'll be there to answer any of your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24447	Thank you very much. As I announced the word now has Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24448	I thank Mr. Chairman, since I have been somewhat called, I will only try briefly to convey the way the Commission has approached in the processing of the materials that we have obtained. We had a correspondence with the Council of Ministers and the announcement that we would get a report on the effects of VAT and in their letters it said so, and then the situation occurred that we received a document addressed as information. We did a background check on the House of Representatives and found that we ourselves actually concluded that we would be informed. Information is a form that gives the House less opportunity not to discuss here but simply a document about something that you receive to know. So, something that they don't talk about and I can say is freely about a more unserious form. In that sense, I ask you in relation to the report. So they respected our conclusion, because we asked to be informed, how they asked for it and got what our people said, we got the information. At the first meeting of the Commission, we asked for the addition of this information why we were not prepared to go to a statement, because we are receiving information, and we can declare ourselves on the proposals for measures and conclusions contained in the information. That required a statement. We were not prepared for this, because the Council of Ministers alone, the chair's office wrote that for some of his ideas he should also ask the Management Board for indirect taxation, the second is that this report was done without a statement until then by the Management Board of indirect taxation, so, in principle, they received material like us, the fiscal council had not taken a stand, so we treated this as information, we gave certain suggestions to the House on how to act on this and we were found to have 27 Mr Hurtić, who presented this to the Commission, as part of our discussions that in June, the IMF team would come and hold meetings with the legislative and executive authority in BiH and that their position is expected, meaning, and the court on the effects of introducing value added tax. So, hearing about this information, we're like the Commission, I immediately sent a request to the IMF Bureau, where we asked them to find time for us as the Commission to hold a meeting with them. Afterwards, I received an invitation, Mr. President Raguž, meaning, which was not the product of where we were famous at the Central Bank for a meeting private day means the team here, it's about Mr. Demekes, who is headed by the IMF team for Southeast Europe, at least that's what the card says, not just for BiH and the man who along with his associates, so he came here and we talked to them on Friday two hours. As the Commission we have met, we have been attended by frequent members of the Commission, meaning with the situation in which the Commission is located, and I will remind you of that, so far our commission has received 15 amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. That we had a gentlemen's agreement with the Council of Ministers when a single rate was adopted, that we would look at the first effects and that the Council of Ministers would propose possible measures, depending on what the effects would be, then, that an opinion would be asked normally on the amendments and the addition of the Law that the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration would be consulted. However, what happens, from those 15 to now, until that day the amendments to the law, nine parliamentary procedures have been completed, six are rejected in the procedure now, three are even submitted under Article 105. We know what that means. Why am I saying all this? It is that the proposed amendment and addition of the Law almost all clubs submitted positions and opposition. So it's about the situation, we've introduced all the people to it, so the effects, not only on the state, so the state has a way and shows certain figures, that we're the people who came from the base and we get different information. This information is also from different economic operators, different activities than those dealing with investments that are not in a good position. They're people who deal with printed activity, they're written media, they're religious organizations, they're these so-called "religious organizations." Hum. Public cuisine, different associations, they're disabled, so it's pensioners, it's all those who aren't in a situation to earn their own income. So, on the bright side of it, we've met the gentlemen about how things are. As far as we're concerned, our vision, and in the end we got a pretty solid one explanation from Mr. Demeks correctly, who listened to all our discussions and then expressed his views and views on them at this point in BiH, means that first look, because they just came here. They have, therefore, pointed out, since a colleague demanded Mr Dimitrije Demekis pointed out that they are here on a regular visit, to hold those bilateral talks and consultations with countries under the IMF agreement and are doing a review in the fields of Marko-economic policy, which then the IMF's administrative board is making a report and directs certain recommendations to the Member State. So they're not here to talk about, possibly the Stand Bay deal, and that's not the topic, they're going to talk about it with the new Council of Ministers, and after our discussions, he told us their thoughts on VAT issues. First, he thanked our commission and said this was the first time that a committee of parliament, and not they demanded this meeting, was very positive for progress in BiH, because there was obviously a change in the way of thinking. I point this out for the Commission, not to commend myself. He then said that the fact that VAT has been introduced in each country has led to major changes, and it has been a first sentence that the value tax is an instrument adopted by this Parliament and that the final decision on us is what it will be, whether we change it or not. Then he referred to the discussions of individual members of the Commission, related to certain concerns and prejudices, which apply to VAT and commented, firstly 28 said that the thinking of VAT increased the price of raw materials wrongly, because the raw materials were included in the sales tax, and VAT was planned only on final consumption, so that there was a return of these funds and it was superior to those other taxes. In relation to agricultural production, VAT does not affect small agricultural producers, as it refers to producers with a certain monetary limit. As this is theoretical thinking, it is clear to him that often the practical side of VAT administration is much more complicated and difficult. The second prejudice to the use of VAT is that VAT appears to be an unplanned surplus of money, which is not known where to invest it. It is good thinking that he heard from the members of the Commission that after three months of VAT, no quality analysis of its effects can be made. The surplus that allegedly appears in us is only a premonition, because it is the result of the application of Article 72. The law and that is the tax to be returned, and the excess is partly the result of the earlier sales tax collected from earlier years. This surplus will soon disappear, and if the surplus occurs, it is most important to preserve it rather than spend on public spending. Many of the VAT elements are related to broader areas and issues such as the issue of the functioning of the country itself, and in this context the issue of a good distribution of the collected funds between the state and entities is because we have potentiated the distribution problems. In order to have a rational debate on these issues, it is necessary to focus on VAT-related problems. In this context, he emphasized certain points that should be looked back, often observed occasionally. One of these points is to highlight the issue that VAT has achieved a significant result. In order to look at real VAT results, it is necessary to wait for a certain period of time to pass. In any case, the success of the BiH VAT can be seen for three reasons: 1. VAT is a step towards introducing a single economic space in BiH, 2. A single account system was adopted, which is necessary for better functioning of the state, and 3. The VAT helps to reduce the grey economy in the country, and as shown by the trogyngian statistics, i.e. imports-exports on the amendment and addition of the VAT Act, which were discussed by the Commission members, grouped them into three categories, and then gave its opinion on these proposals. The first group are proposals to introduce a zero VAT exemption rate, based on its long-term experience with transition countries, which is the worst possible solution. The reasons for this kind of thinking are next. This would, then, make changes like this happen if good and bad revenues were achieved somewhere. As a result of the still very weak tax administration and administration, this would not be a good solution. Secondly, the zero rate is not in line with the European Union rules, as it is also harmonised in most countries. The third rule, the exemption from VAT planning in the European Union, is extremely limited and the zero rate allowed for export only. So it was about zero and a release of opinion. The second group of proposals concerned differentiated rates. The same problems as the zero rate would result in the introduction of a differentiated rate, because if the rate is reduced somewhere, the other side must be increased. In view of the social assistance of 29 people at risk, the opinion is that this is not a good way to help, because this issue can be regulated more effectively through the creation of adequate social programmes. He mentioned that some countries have introduced a differentiated rate, but they have a much more modern and efficient tax administration. The third group of proposals referred to a reduction in VAT rates from 17% to 15%, which is to remind you and was an IMF proposal when a proposal for a tax introduction bill was made. They thought 15% of the arrest was enough to achieve the revenue that was enough to function. From a technical point of view, this proposal is least harmful in their opinion. However, he also warned of two things in this proposal. First, it is necessary to wait until a certain period of time is passed, in order to determine the actual effect of VAT application, secondly, when we are sure that VAT has achieved serious success, then we can decide on amending the law and reducing the rate. And thirdly, in any case, it is necessary to achieve a savings system, and only after that to think about spending money. That was short. I'll apologize to my colleagues. Since it was Friday, I've been trying to get a stenogram of what Mr. Demeks said, and you're all in a position to bring out your vision and messages every day as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24449	I thank Mrs. Milićević. So far, we've got two people reported. These are Mr. Beriz Belkip, so Mr. Gligorić, Felić, pa Sipović, pa Đedović, so Lagumdžija. That's the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24450	Thank you. I welcome you all. In practice, my intention is not to discuss but to try in some way to agree and answer ourselves to the question of what we want today with this information, or what will be the result of this debate. All this is true what Mrs Milićević has transferred from the Finance and IMF Commission meeting and a number of other opinions and views, etc., but there is another fact that we must face. We were then told that this law is our child, that we have passed this law and that we have a responsibility to the citizens and to our voters to say so, who pay these taxes. At this point, we now have an assessment in the information which is subject to today's debate that the system is established to work and that nothing needs to be changed and, if 54 measures are listed, are to be implemented and there are only two amendments to the Law on Value Added Taxes, and that is, to Article 72, why there is an initiative, which has become immaterial and reduced the threshold for registering taxpayers. So, basically, we have no answer to all our initiatives from this Parliament from different proposings, clubs, individuals, parties, etc., which have been ignored for two years almost ignored and unanimously rejected without any apparent explanation. And we're in a dilemma now. If this information, then, is now formal, we're only receiving knowledge. What does that mean? If we adopt it, does that mean that we've adopted all these 54 measures and we've accepted to say that the system is working well and there's nothing to change. If we reject it and do not accept it, does this mean the activation of all our initiatives, which are alive and we will face tomorrow the fact that we have unsynchronized initiatives that may be opposed to each other and produce 30 bad effects. Unfortunately, we didn't, we expected here, at least I expected the Council of Ministers to just make an inventory of all our initiatives, along with the board of directors and tell the gentlemen of this whole thing, we think that we can implement this and sort of coordinate the law in some ways. However, all initiatives have been ignored, by the Management Board rejected by the same pattern, so this parliament has practically faced the situation of simply doing what, because the public disagrees with this assessment that the system has brought only good things. We get messages from both unions and employers all the time, etc. the following points are inserted after point (c) of point (c) of point (c) of point (c) of the first subparagraph: These initiatives that we have here, they are not just the fruit of individuals, the initiative that people want to do, but at the request of certain structures. Now we're in a dilemma, God Bog the system is gourmet, but on the other hand we can't tolerate this ignoring initiative and our responsibilities to the citizens, we can't even tolerate it. So, it would have to go to the initiatives that they have here and explain when what initiative can be applied and what effects it will produce, and therefore it would be Mr. Chairman well, we have, of course, the possibility of all of us discussing these data obtained here on these measures, etc., but the fundamental question to me is, how we who are responsible because we have passed this law, respond to the great initiatives for change and your finding that everything is excellent and that nothing needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24451	Thank you very much. I will now give my word to the MPs before I give it to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and I think it will be useful to track down what Mr Belkić has been looking for. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24452	So, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here, I am pleased that after a month you are finally ready to look at this information about the effects of VAT introduction. I have to admit that I couldn't make it to the session this morning, and I assumed that you might even wait, since we've been waiting for you for a month, to wait for us to team up, because we've already announced two conferences, the two conferences I've had to open, and I really guess that, if it's a serious topic for you, which you seem to have been able to wait another month to finish my duties and come to make an introduction. Anyway, the chairman thank you very much for, however, giving me the opportunity to speak. So, before I give the opening statement, let me briefly refer to what Mr. Belkić was talking about. This is the information requested by Parliament. Information on the effects of VAT implementation for January-March 2006. Therefore, Parliament has asked us and we have made an economic analysis of what results from the introduction of VAT. So we did not go to the analysis of the proposal that Parliament was making. We have stuck to what Parliament has asked of us, one fundamental analysis of all the effects that the introduction of VAT with one rate in BiH has produced both positive and negative, etc. I suppose that on the basis of this information, MPs will be discussing today and I assume that on the basis of this information, that the Council of Ministers can then come out, look at them and come out and propose some measures that will help where citizens have a VAT problem with a single VAT rate to fix. So, I think it's an approach, and it's not a matter of ignoring someone as you say the initiatives we have in Parliament and citizens, but it's a matter of getting 31 to make information about the effects of VAT and you know very well that these are only economic indicators, here this growth, is not, that we are not immediately in the beginning of the debate in this one ambience of the Council of Ministers' Ingnoratic relationship according to Parliament's demands. The information was made by the office of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and... units, and was made by the Management Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Department for Macro-Economic Analysis of the Management Board, the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH and the Statistical Agency for BiH. In the process of drawing up information, we have analysed the positive and negative effects of VAT implementation, which are also included in this information. I would like to stress that the preparation process for the information was complicated. It is not common for the first analysis of the effect of VAT implementation to be performed only after two or three months after its implementation. One reason is the fact that during such a short period of time it is very difficult to determine what is the trend of public revenue collection, especially in the case of the first months of implementation of this tax. Namely, the first more reliable information on public revenues, for example for January 2006, was only available in the second week of February, i.e. only after more than a month of implementation of the Law. The reason for this is practical. There is a time period needed for taxpayers to file tax returns, to pay taxes, and for a period during which the Directorate for indirect taxation should exercise control of the request for return, return, etc. It was only after this process, which, as I said, lasted longer than a month, not because of the inability of the administration, but because of the legal provisions, that revenue can be estimated for the previous month. As you can see from the additional information on the return that we have provided you, the Management is still controlling the request for return based on applications submitted in the previous period. This is important to note because of the need to approach the first effects of VAT introduction with a significant dose of caution, especially when it comes to public revenues. Namely, the largest number of countries in the first analysis of VAT implementation worked only after six months to one year since the start of the implementation of this tax form. Public revenues in the first months were high and were high in most of the countries that introduced VAT. However, it still cannot be said with certainty what the trend of their collection will be by the end of the year, so that no concrete conclusions should be taken nor concrete steps in tax policy and budgetary spending before a minimum period of six months is passed, as long as it is necessary to carry out an adequate analysis of VAT implementation. Normally, this is probably a suggestion and a conversation with the deaf, but no one can resist the temptation to speak against the government's economic policy in the pre-election year. I suppose no one will take this seriously, but my obligation to say what's Wednesday. Regardless of the above, I think we can be satisfied with the findings from the first information introduced by the VAT. The VAT has been successfully introduced and implemented successfully. The best confirmation of the success of this reform is the International Credit Agency's decision to improve our country's credit rating from B3 to B2 based on the introduction of VAT. This is a major step towards improving BiH's image, especially in the segment of meeting the Copenhagen criteria for accession to the European Union. This information is also confirmed by domestic experts. Ggrađan were informed through the media that I recently held a meeting with Professor Hus Čičić, the dean of the Sarajevo Faculty of Economics. Dr. Crescent. Čičić, who is otherwise president of the Economic and Scientific Council, who has acted in my office and confirmed that the current implementation of the VAT has been successful and beyond expectations. 32 However, he also said it is early to draw final conclusions, especially when it comes to the level of public income. I want to return to the very good news for our country, which is the growth of credit ratings in the international market, which has contributed to the successful introduction of VAT. This will benefit from the economy, because the promotion of the rating will stimulate new foreign investment, our banks will have additional space to reduce interest rates, as they will be able to mobilise capital on the international market under far more favourable conditions than it has been so far. Let me now look at the most important effects after the introduction of the VAT and if income growth data should be taken with caution. Their growth is in the first three months o.g. was above expectations. Public revenues based on VAT and lagging sales taxes increased by about 52% compared to the same period last year. It's a net inflow, i.e. the inflow in which no return on exporters and tax credits has been calculated to other economic operators. However, what represents the most tangible effect of VAT implementation is a significant strengthening of tax discipline. About 70% of more VAT companies were registered, than planned, and VAT reported and paid about 97% of taxpayers in time, which was unimaginable in the previous sales tax regime. In addition, the significant effect is the fact that VAT began to stimulate, to act stimulatingly on exports, which is about 40% higher compared to the same period last year. Exporters are now stimulated to display real values, to get as much tax returns as possible. In the first three months alone, the management provided about 45 million KM returns to exporters for VAT introduction and return insurance to our exporters. We have finally brought them into an equal position with their competitors in the region. Price growth was not at the level of the forecasts made in public, or even from some domestic experts. Lower average price growth was recorded than expected, and in the second month, even its decline. As can be seen from the material for today's meeting of the BiH Statistics Agency, it found that consumers could buy basic food at lower prices than average. However, it is important to stress that prices are not solely VAT responsible for the rise. They would certainly rise due to a sharp rise in the price of oil in the international market, which in May was the highest in the last few decades. On the other hand, the increase in prices was also influenced by the seasonal factor. Namely, agricultural products that make up an important part of each consumer basket during the winter period are more expensive. Finally rising prices el. Energy in the Federation of BiH also contributed to a slight increase in prices after 1 April 2006. I remind you, the price rises. Energy to Derk's decisions, not to introduce VAT. I think we're all looking forward to the fact that entity governments have started implementing their programmes to mitigate the consequences of VAT. Based on these programmes, the socially endangered family will receive about 500 KM annually, on behalf of moistening price growth after VAT introduction. This amount paid monthly is more than enough to cancel the effect of price growth, not only on VAT basis, but also on other grounds. The fact is that in the 2006 budgets, thanks to increased VAT revenues, governments at all levels provided about 19% more funding for social protection programmes compared to the previous year. This is the biggest growth ever recorded on the transition from one fiscal year to another. 33 However, it is quite certain that the social protection issue will be even higher after the budget rebalances announced for the second half of this year, with the distribution of surplus resources collected under the VAT. So citizens who are in a state of greatest need are already getting some VAT revenue, redistributing a part of social wealth from richer to poorer ones. Increased VAT-based revenues will allow entity governments to significantly increase funds to subsidise agricultural production in 2006, at the highest rates ever made. To this end, the Federation of BiH government will allocate 28 million KM this year, which is an increase of about 70% compared to last year, and RS 42 million, which is an increase of 25%. There is certainly room for additional increases through budget rebalancing. The VAT did not affect the decline of pension funds' income, which is particularly important for both salaries and pensions recorded growth compared to the period before VAT was introduced. Due to the delayed functioning of the tax reform on employment, it is impossible to determine the impact of VAT on this area. It will be possible to assess the impact only after one year of its implementation. However, there is a slight growth in employment, and the rate of registered unemployment is significantly lower than in the same period last year. The insidious implementation of VAT in the past period has been successful. The VAT has already brought very positive things into our economy, and if they were to be resumed, then the most important successes would be the growth of tax discipline, the growth of social protection funds and the increase of the subsidisation of agricultural production. However, as I pointed out ahead, it is still early to draw concrete conclusions. What I consider the highest priority now is the opening of a debate on how public revenues should be used based on VAT, which will certainly be bigger than planned. Let me point out, in my opinion, an important priority. In order for VAT to have the right effects in terms of employment growth and pensions, it is necessary to reduce economic taxes, leading to a reduction in the grey economy and an improvement in the business climate for investors. And given the high percentage of the socially endangered, it is necessary to use VAT revenues to strengthen the social protection system. Strengthening the social protection system is necessary, especially now that we have established a more efficient mechanism for collecting public revenue. The entity governments have to pay attention to this because the earlier excuse that strengthening the social protection system is not sufficient to strengthen the social protection system is no longer standing. Thanks to the VAT, all BiH authorities have the opportunity to regulate the sector and ensure a fairer distribution of funds. This is particularly important, because according to the data collected so far, we can conclude that entity governments, and especially the government of the RS and cantonal governments, are already spending extra income on VAT to increase public spending, which, as we all know, is high. This has to stop and I expect your support. Excess VAT-based spending can only be made after the BiH fiscal council discusses how spending priorities will be determined, given the need to limit the increase in public spending. We are witnessing that proposals for amendments to the VAT law are constantly coming from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on the basis of which a zero rate would be introduced. The BiH Council of Ministers, together with the Board of Directors for Direct Taxation, discussed the proposals we have received so far and gave a negative opinion on changes. There's no reason why they'd be doing it right now. The price is lower than expected, and entity governments pay socially threatened fees in amounts, which are greater than the amount needed to cancel price growth. Any changes to the law, which would introduce zero rates, would only benefit traders and 34 companies lobbying because in the case of other countries there would be no significant price reduction such as no reduction in the prices of those products that were on the market of 20%. Therefore, the zero rate would not lead to advocating the social impact through the drop in prices, the only real effect would be the loss of public revenue. Such a change of law would even harm the poorer in the name of which it is sought. The zero rate could even lead to price growth, as the basic VAT rate of 17% would have to increase if we did not want to disrupt macroeconomic stability and the budgetary implementation of commitments. Finally, because of the loss of public income, the largest price would be paid by the socially compromised, as all levels of government would again come into a situation if they did not have enough resources to reform the social protection system. IPP did an analysis of the introduction of zero rates on only a few products, bread, milk, dairy products, edible oil, fat, baby food, honey, drinking water, medicines, books and textbooks, newspapers and magazines. The analysis presented in the material for the session shows that the introduction of zero rates on these several products would lead to a loss of public revenue of around 260 million KM. However, the loss of public income would be up to twice as high, as there would be a violation of the established tax discipline. Namely, it would reopen the possibility that organised crime would be tax evasion through a false declaration of goods that would be devoid of zero rate. The experience of a three-stage sales tax, which we had until last year, is sufficiently educational in this area, so the public has the right to ask whose name and in whose behalf they are, in fact, proposing amendments to the legislative rules for the introduction of a zero rate. The introduction of a zero rate not only to benefit the socially endangered, but also to distance BiH from the European pathway. We have shared with you the letter we received from Mr Regling, director of the Department of Economic and Financial Affairs of the European Commission. In addition, this letter is in fact a kind of warning to BiH authorities that the introduction of a zero VAT rate would be contrary to EU VAT regulations. In addition, in a letter from Brussels, we have been warned that the introduction of a zero rate could fuel the functioning of the budget, especially in order to lead to the return of crime in the area of indirect tax evasion. Accordingly, I remind only a few countries in the European Union have a zero rate, but they will also be forced to abolish it in the coming period. I would like to point out that at the last session of the Fiscal Council, the National Fiscal Council of BiH, we clearly and precisely opposed the introduction of a zero rate. In particular, I would like to stress that the introduction of more rates at this point would have a negative impact on the economy, as it would further complicate the return process, and would increase the costs of administering a multi-stage VAT, which would affect the reduction of competitiveness. Finally, because of the loss of public income, it would make it impossible for the government at lower levels to reduce taxes on businesses, without which there would be a significant reduction in the grey economy, which is an important precondition for pension growth. However, I believe that in certain parts the VAT Act should be amended. I appreciate that the amendments to the Law are necessary, especially in the context of the abolition of Article 72, which you have already rejected twice to ensure the return of all companies in BiH, the reduction of the threshold for registration, insurance, return of VAT to humanitarian organisations and the introduction of fiscal cash registers. I appreciate the need to ensure that Article 72 is abolished very quickly, and any other amendments to the law should be made in the course of next year. Meanwhile, there is a need to ensure continued subsidisation of medicinal products from positive lists, as well as subsidisation of the activities of humanitarian organisations. The Drug Act, which the Council of Ministers sent to Parliament, should also be adopted to introduce order into the BiH drug market. I urge MPs not to succumb to various pressures from pharmaceutical lobbies in BiH and to accept the law as proposed by the 35 Council of Ministers. Finally, I would like to stress that VAT revenues are shared between multi-level authorities, and that without the consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, where entity finance ministers are represented, they should not be subject to amendments to the VAT Act. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a modern VAT law. The infomracija is that the Slovak government has made a decision to introduce a one-stage VAT, and that such considerations exist in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is best reflected in the fact that we should insist on the implementation of the VAT Act in the current form. I appreciate that the successful implementation of VAT is the result of all of us. You have made your contribution through the early adoption of all necessary legal regulations. International financial institutions agree that reform of indirect taxation, which includes the introduction of VAT, is the most successful reform implemented since the signing of the Dayton Agreement. We should not have allowed it to be put at risk by amending laws that would undermine the level of fiscal discipline and fiscal sustainability. We owe a special thanks for bringing the results so far in the implementation of the VAT to the Directorate for indirect taxation. I'm taking this opportunity to encourage them and support them in continuing to carry out a very difficult task, which we put before them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24453	I thank Mr. Terzić. I think the conditions for a proper debate have now been created. In the end, we've never had a debate before. We had a review one day from Mr. Čaušević and Mrs. Milićević and now yours, so here's the question Mr. Belkić referred to, too, was in place. It's partly your responsibility, and here we go in the next order. First Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, get ready for Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to specific things, I want to say a few introductory sentences, and that is that Mrs. Milićević has removed the dilemma that was present, related to whether this is a report or information. Since you were in the College, too, once you sent us a report, so today you fixed it, it's a good thing it's information, and I'm saying this because it's not even an accident. We've asked for it more than once to come as a report, so it's turned into information that's not being voted on. We may be wasting our time in this broad story, and in the end it will be virtually nothing. Secondly, Mr Beriz Belkić said, he has now left, asked that the public insists on not agreeing with this system, ignores the initiatives and raises the question of responsibility here in Parliament fully with the right, and then raises the question which is the invisible hand in this BiH, in this and behind this parliament. We are asked to pass the law, and when we bring it in then we have no power, and by the Constitution we have it, that we change anything and come into a situation now that the people who are in power are more concerned about the bad effects of this system than the opposition, which has been pointing out that these people are not going to be good for our citizens or for our institutions. Fine, I agree with what was said, but why didn't he suggest a conclusion, that within days we don't know how many days to remove it, but a man's personal frustration that something is wrong and nothing further. If we're serious people and then let's say we have a problem, we solve it the next way. We are the highest organ in this country. It's missing. It's not even a coincidence. This is just how you do it. 36 As for Mr. Terzić, he comes out, it would be better for him at first never to give me the devil or the devil not to give peace, always saying something later when he started to read, somehow, if I thought we were in Norway, it was just a whole fairy tale in the way he talks and look what he's finally saying. My office did it. Which office? We have asked as Parliament the Council of Ministers for a report, you have translated it into information to dilute it. Why is he ignoring the Ministry of Finance? Why didn't the Ministry of Finance do that? Why wasn't there a job carrier and a council of ministers, but an office? I've got a chief of staff, I've got about two or three of my employees, I'm in charge of them, and they're an institution. What's wrong with you people? What are we doing in this place? In front of our eyes, someone promotes an institution past the official competent ministries and the competent executive authority and here promotes it. I mean, it's a scandal, it's a shame. And I have to say something, I'm sorry there's no Terzić. What he was saying was almost Norway, but those are just words. But he looked so sad and disappointed that he didn't trust himself in what he read. But here's what I'm going to do. You talk gentlemen about the effects of VAT. I don't see any effects, except for the fact that we've passed the law, we have a single account and we've stolen from the poor from the poor, the money we can't steal from the gray economy. Where are your effects? What exactly did you do if you didn't think it was going to pay, etc. and that these are the effects. You didn't know how to explain it. I'm asking a question here, Mr. Čaušević, when Terzić's already gone, although he doesn't understand himself through these terms. Of these revenues you said, did you make that software program, that's what Lagumdžija was talking about, even offering himself to do it for free. The structure of these revenues, well, here, if you're wrong about giving back to businesses, can you figure out how many economies were involved in this? What's the consumption? How many poor people buy bread and milk? You don't have that for sure, I know you don't. Why aren't you perfecting the system? And, look, you get here, I need to read a few sentences of yours to make my comment. You say in this information basic, because they have changes and supplements. You say a VAT-based income meeting in the first quarter of 2006 and line up with Croatia and Serbia. And then you say, from the aspect of the efficiency of collecting public revenues, the effect of introducing VAT into BiH is even higher, given that Croatia and Serbia initially had a lower threshold for registering taxpayers, and a stalking tax administration. You compare yourself with Croatia and Serbia, and you cannot compare, because you have not provided fiscal cash registers in the system, which, after all, prevents illegality, i.e. the gray economy. Why didn't you provide that? And that's why I'm saying, I wish it was what you're saying, but that's not true. You've provided extra income for the most of this poor woman, introducing that tax, because you can't take from the gray economy, and now you're saying, it can't be a differentiated rate, it can't be a zero rate, it can't be, because it'd be rising and organized crime would start, and just what you're saying, just that rate and just like that, there's no crime organized. You unconsciously admit that there is crime in BiH in the economy. Because you unwittingly admitted it. Next, in this supplemental material, which you delivered us, you say at this point on 24th, regardless of the rise in oil and electricity prices. Energy in the Federation of BiH, the prices of certain provisions of life began to fall in April, such as Oil, chicken and flour, wheat flour. I'm asking you now, when you're citing these prices, these three types of groceries, why you didn't mention the opposite movements, the collection of groceries, why it was left behind, because what you're missing is my mouth, I choose what to do, and that's why I'm saying this is a classic political pamphlet from the office or office of the tall, practically chairing Council of 37 Minister Terzić, I didn't accidentally highlight it, you figured it out well, and I need to remind you with the communists that you're talking about the most, here's my fellow Duraković, dear friend, but the communists knew they were doing, so when they were missing in their report, they opened factories and jobs, they opened up and built people's apartments. What are you doing here? You're missing without any effect, and all of that was dark and evil to you. You didn't know how to raise the economy or you'd know. I guess in point 42, you say, unlike the claims of the public, I'm stressing here parts of the public, by introducing VAT, there's not going to be a fall in wages and pensions and here you say 9 marks, 17 marks, in the range, in RS 9 in the Federation more. Now, I recognize people here when they told their friend, Professor Lagumdžija, in part of the public, because he obviously made the most of the public's questions from comparisons to accounts in certain trading houses, to all the effects of positive and negative, one analytical approach, and this is a message, I mean Mr. Lagumdžija in this pamphlet, not the public. Because they're all two sense stories, they've figured something out, like it's some smart reason for them. They say, and now that they're talking about that salary increase and pensions of 9 and 17 marks, I think it's a clean string. What can be bought in the month for 9 or 17 marks, which they lack, compared to when they take 50 marks from that poor person and from those workers a month from that consumer basket, take 50 from him and give him 9. Well, honey, that's some new invention of social justice. In point 42.f, it is said. It is important to note that the data shown by the entity employment institutions is talking about the so-called registered unemployment, which is due to size, I stress the gray economy, far higher than the actual unemployment estimated at 20%. Well, this is where you saw the contradiction, too. Here, they highlight the size of the gray economy, and elsewhere it's minimized, nowhere to be found, except for the chairman when she gets carried away says when she talks about those rates, it would immediately go, crime would go, etc. I don't know what we in BiH are always talking about organised crime, when we have this topic, Terzić says, "Organised crime," and all the worst says is how loud it is in BiH, and as far as it's concerned, here's the topic, then there's practically no. We used all of this on your paperwork from his office. He also says about improving the standard of living to include data on the use of mogul telephony. Namely, the number of mobile phone users from 1.4 million, increased to 1.6 million in the last year, which is about 13% growth, and they are missing. And on this example, you can see all of our misfortunes, sorrows and sorrows in the socioeconomic sense. This information is not a reflection of a better economic situation, but I think it is a social phenomenon, which has accepted young people as an expression of belonging to a modern society, and their parents for their children, for their grandchildren, are buying that these children would be cool to give them the last brand and you are missing here that we are as modern as Poland, Norway etc., so they want these poor women to want their children not to be singled out from another, that is one social phenomenon, which is just to be expressed, and not according to this economic well-being, and that's exactly what they're saying is good. The 50th point is, you say, less than expected price increases, and therefore less burden on the socially endangered population and talk about programs, talk about this entity level, talk about graphs, that contribute to you. When you say that, because prices have increased before, they were even higher than after VAT was introduced. In addition, previous governments have not provided social programmes to mitigate the consequences of the rise in basic food prices. In the shortest time, here is your explanation, when you should be missing then you explain yourself, and you know this is the essence of what you wrote here, but you didn't explain it at all. As these effects go, you return those five marks. How do you get them back? Is that working out? Are the more expensive shipping costs? As you deliver it, only one segment speaks. Why didn't you say so? Why would they take my word for it? We say that. You were naive Mr. Belkić 38 after returning this, you were promised a social programme so they said at the state level, so they realized that the state had no jurisdiction, so after it wasn't entity jurisdiction, what we have guarantees that this was working, except here it was just written as if it worked. And I'm telling you, and I can prove to you that it's not working. What do we do now, and we gave the citizens our word. And the social program is the law. And the law is a social program. Now what? Who is Mr. Belkić the invisible hand that won't let us handle it? Which one? 51. I'm gonna skip something, I'm going to the 53rd point. 53. They say, by introducing a VAT, humanitarian organisations are placed in a position to pay VAT without the right to return, which is also one, I stress, one of the negativity of VAT implementation. Wasn't there people who said in both this Parliament and the public the absurdity of the intention of the norm that humanitarian organisations couldn't function, and that we prevent or shut down folk cuisines that, how much they helped some unfortunate people who didn't have that one daily meal? We all knew that. We said it all, and now they say, they wouldn't admit it, but they say it's just one of the negatives and they admit it themselves, that's good. But since they said one of the negatives in the plural, there are more of them, but why didn't Mr. Čaušević make there's more, but only that, watch out in this campaign, in this charm you have to make a hundred times, a million times tell someone that he made a mistake. I don't know how many examples you give him after a million times, and even a thief admits before these people in power do something wrong. Instead of saying, it's true we made a mistake, it won't fall off the crown's head. No, no, it's just one of the negativity so beautifully tempered, that people die of hunger in front of their eyes, it doesn't matter. Finally, they say, further, an even greater brutal hike would contribute to further complexing and addition of an administrative system for indirect taxation, which should be achieved if a zero VAT rate was introduced. Now I ask Mr. Lagumdžija again. Because he says otherwise, so when they're gone, I can ask a man who knows something. You claimed in this House the opposite. You offered to build them a software program for free, because they said it was done. Now the question is, I'm asking you now, Mr. Čaušević, and I need you to answer this. You have to when there's no Terzić or his office. He doesn't even have his office. Who's from his office? I'm asking you. Who produced the software program? How much did the software program cost? What's behind him? What are his options? Because you got the software program before this law was passed and then we all had to adapt to the software program, which some creep from abroad brought you in. Is that true? You have to answer that. This country needs to be accounted for. We've had enough of the donation software, so they're cutting back and forth. I think it's important, because your explanation was completely pointless, when you said the software program couldn't do it, so people software program makes people. Turns out the software program created itself as Bog. You know, you have Bog and you can't go on. This is where the software program was created and we're all going around it and we're not able to change it, and speaking of this letter from Klaus, it seems to me that since you've all got it, this director, I feel like it's an order letter. And it is not clear to me how this European Commission, when most European Union countries have a differentiated rate. Why not banish them when it is such a great discipline in the European Union? How can we do that, and we've been saying here which states have a differentiated rate. Which has a zero rate. Why don't they kick them out of the European Union? How can they be tolerated? Only this unfortunate BiH cannot tolerate anything. Some punks come in and say 17%. Now the IMF says 15, now all of a sudden he can do is 15%, and when we're talking down there, he can't, because home smart doesn't mean anything in this 39-state state. And you have a foreign mind, which has its logic that has nothing to do with our specificity in BiH. And to end with this, that these aren't any effects, except that you said only in a sentence of effect you still forgot through the whole text, except that you wrote this political pamphlet for the opposition, to tell them, in an indirect way, it's going through, you're arguing with the opposition you from the executive authority, and you're saying that you're right, and we're not like we are. What you did wrong and where you couldn't avoid that kind of criticism, then you explained it in the chosen words, and 90% of what's worst and what's bad for the citizens you hid under the carpet. And that's why I don't think it's worth getting excited here. It's sad that this government and this government have welcomed all four years, that citizens will only feel the effects when the government is gone, then they will see all the evil that will come to the surface. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24455	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. Rijeka has Mr. Hazim Felić, and let Mr. Sipović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, In the introduction of the truth only works, to tell Mr. Gligorić that I have three calls for this session that we have scheduled for the 8th, so here we are today finishing up that every time information and I see no reason to misrepresent it deliberately or maliciously in this way informs the public and present colleagues and colleagues. I don't see why he's doing it, and it's not the first time. The other thing, it would be good, and I believe Mr Gligorić knows that this is the material that was in the Council of Ministers' session, that this is Council of Ministers material, not the office, and he knows it, but he's trying to abuse this pay phone in this way and he's wrongly interpreting or talking about what's really true and the facts. This time I just want to say something as a member of the Commission. I think that dear colleague Milićević and Mr Belkić spoke as members of the Commission, and I think they missed one very important thing in that part. When we had this on the agenda as members of the Commission, discussing this information, we concluded in the end that we would not as the Commission give our own court and evaluations regarding the conclusions and opinions of the Council of Ministers, which are within the framework of this information. We also agreed that, in the context of the debate at the House of Representatives, information on the first effects of the introduction of VAT, from discussions of distinguished fellow MPs from the opinion and conclusions of the Council of Ministers, and in particular taking into account these problems that Belkić spoke about many laws on changes and additions to the VAT law. Let us leave some space to the Council of Ministers, yes, by subliming all discussions and conclusions that the House will adopt its proposals for measures and conclusions, in a certain period of time, which this House sets out, with a clear proposal for measures and conclusions, especially from the aspect and the law in the procedure. I think that this would make it easier for all of us, as well as for the Council of Ministers, and in the end to find the best possible effects through what we and the objective and task of implementing the law, in the end, and to see what are the effects, as the Commission has also sought through certain analytical cuts and reviews, in particular from the aspect, given that in the overall effects of the Director Čaušević, it was little and explained in the total revenue shown in the information initially by these tax credits, as the Administration calls them, which almost 60, and 70 million marks, respectively. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24457	I thank Mr. Felić. The word has Mr. Sipović. Have Mr Ibrahim Đedović prepare, followed by Mr Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24458	How important and hot the subject is also the fact that we have been waiting for this information on the effects of introducing VAT for the period January-March 2006 and taking any future measures on this value added tax. I must, in essence, commend the President of the Finance and Budget Commission here, that she essentially presented those facts from the IMF's representative headed by Director Demikels, who had a debate with the Finance and Budget Commission, so that we can get to know this home as his working body on the IMF's opinion, on this issue. I think here, I'll most certainly say, we have two things. It is an economic tax reform, with several aspects, which the parliament adopted towards the path of Europe, as instructed by the European Union. On the other hand, we now have one problem which, indeed, this matter is also affecting the political relations of the social aspects of citizens, including businesses, which are directly related to the introduction of VAT. I, indeed, would not elaborate too broadly on this information, the views of the international community, or of the IMF, on some of our ideas for proposals, which came from this home by the individuals of the MPs and by the clubs for the change of VAT, as well as the initiatives that came from the Council of Ministers on the introduction of a zero rate, i.e. staffing for the press and publishing activity and some other aspects. I have a dilemma to make. If we have here measures proposed and the Council of Ministers stands at the point of view that it is not touching, that zero rates are not introduced, that there is no differentiated rate, that there is no end until certain effects are achieved, and in the effects measures it has proposed certain measures. If they have these proposals, it has the position of the IMF and the international community, not to mention the effects of the VAT on broad and protracted, I would not like to elaborate, because I will take a specific time, please, we must say here specifically, and in terms of measures, if it says there is no differentiated rate of introduction for publishing, please ask why the Council of Ministers suggests that the Council of Ministers in these measures proposed by this home, to form a fund at the level of BiH, the state of BiH, in order to help publishing and the press hit these VATs. So we don't have to touch him. Reduce the differentiated rate for those reasons that it was proposed not to repeat. Further, for medicines, too, the Council of Ministers said there is no regulated market at BiH level and these measures it proposes to Parliament why it is not in the next period, a suggestion that it will come out directly in the next period. We must perform crediblely, including the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, which implements this policy. What can be done and what can't be done and what measures can I ask you to do? And another suggestion. Social programs are said here, certain colleagues have made it clear. It was an obligation of entity governments and lower levels, cantonal and still. However, we obviously see the Council of Ministers implementing one tax reform on the macro plan, and on the other hand there are no mechanisms to implement these social programmes and to control 41. Then why did the Council of Ministers not propose adequate measures in this context, and not to say that is not our problem. The problem is that citizens want these social programmes and I think they should have been effective and be a Council of Ministers thing and, finally, let me say something else from the point of view of a suggestion. It doesn't have to be, to think about it. If the aim is to introduce VAT, create conditions for the single economic market in BiH and attract foreign capital to invest in the aid industry as an investment, please, I suggest. That the entire Council of Ministers, together with this house, is coordinating to bring a single profit tax rate across BiH. In Republika Srpska, they introduced a 10% rate and this is to be welcomed, so the economy of that tax has been disbursed if sales tax is introduced. It is unacceptable that in BiH, in the Federation of BiH, there is such charm that there are up to 30 in some cantons, some 25%. I heard that there are some initiatives, and I think the Council of Ministers must do this as an auxiliary measure, and that the same income tax must be unique and welcome, and that is the function of attracting capital for the development of the economy. In this context, how can it affect the reduction of the grey economy, i.e. the reduction of unemployment? Please. The Council of Ministers only said, but there is no concrete measure. I heard one proposal that a single pension fund should be established at BiH level in the coming period. In this context, we propose a reduction in the grey economy, unemployment, to reduce giving, or contribute, which is enormous in the Federation and which are much larger than in the RS, which have also introduced less giving, to reduce in this way, to have a much lower unemployment rate, to charge the PIO-MIO funds more, and thus to have a realistic rate that does not happen to us that young people who do not have adequate employment in their professions to apply to the bureaus, on the other hand, work because of large contributions to some for, how can I say, on black and then we have two disproportionate things, to say that we have a large number of unemployment. These are certain suggestions and one suggestion, also to the Council of Ministers and this home. If we boast that we have achieved great financial discipline, which is to greet and honor and to continue. The suggestion is that the Council of Ministers coordinates with entity tax administrations and cantonal offices for those companies, those private firms, which have certain tax obligations, which could not have been executed in one period to coordinate the implementation of the programme, i.e. to extend that programme to the length of the refund of those tax obligations on sales, taxes on profits or other taxes, so as not to bring tax administrations into effect forced payment with taxpayers and to come to a cash flow, to the sale of property, and then to lose healthy VAT taxpayers. I think the government could coordinate with entity governments and another suggestion. Since it burdens this grey economy, it is very complex and burdens the financial discipline of the internal debt, please, which is, exactly, known in BiH, an internal debt somewhere as much as I have data about 7,500 billion, let someone correct me, if that is it. That gave us information from the Central Bank when she told us her work and report effects and that's a big problem for continuing financial discipline in collecting income taxes. Please, I suggest that the Council of Ministers also suggest that entity governments be formed by one agency, or a register of internal claims, in order to form one agency, which would coordinate on multilateral compensations, because in this way taxpayers would be able to pay both VAT and lower these entity taxes and, on the other hand, given that we have a karensibord system, so there is not enough money, thus creating conditions for further continuing this financial discipline. And in this context, I wanted to offer some thought that the government, namely the Council of Ministers and Parliament of BiH and this House, in co-operation with international institutions, which implement this reform on the macro-system, would help to extend the finer, auxiliary mechanisms to continue this process, and, on the other hand, by taking these measures, have openly protected 42 standard citizens of the most vulnerable category, which, possibly embedded by this introduction of the VAT, rather than by functioning social programmes, which have not been properly implemented by entity authorities and cantons, in order not to endanger this project, that the government must also have powers to implement these aspects. Not to say, counterpart Belkić told the Commission some other instruments needed by the Council of Ministers and this parliament in legislation that this tax reform would continue to be implemented in other segments, because this is just to say one fiscal segment in the brand economy. In that sense, I came out of a stereotype, you should honestly say here, please in the end, here's fair. You Council of Ministers have proposed certain laws, changes to VAT. They've got MPs, they've got zero-foot clubs. On the other hand, we have the IMF's position, which is completely different. Is that true, whether you Council of Ministers can implement for the press and release by introducing a zero rate or is one promise that cannot be realised. I suggest that your measure be realized by the one you proposed. The formation of a fund, from which we could implement this, and then put the MPs in a position, since this is the current issue for the election campaign and any of the opposition, the position, now you don't know in Parliament what the position is, which is the opposition of some. It's a very attractive hot topic. I don't think that this topic should go, it's too serious, not to be the subject of political politics, but to be a matter of reality and what we can do for citizens to help them, and from an empty story they have nothing and please, without the fact that the Council of Ministers has no clear authority to implement the social programme and to transfer and jurisdiction to the lower levels, that means nothing to the citizens. Please establish mechanisms, and when you implement reforms and have positive effects, and we see that there are, then spend with other auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24459	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. The word is Mr. Ibrahim Đedović, so Mr. Lagumdžija. I'll read the order of the reported, recorded long ago. So after Mr. Lagumdžija Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, then Mr. Elmir Jahić, then Mr. Nijaz Durakogić and Ljiljana Milićević. Miloš Jovanović was also reported, so Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go, Mr. Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24460	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, other guests, I will strive to be brief and concrete in bringing out some of my sightings of the material that is before us. The first dilemma that occurs in anyone, anyone who does this a little bit, let's say, more seriously or more carefully, is a sentence in a preface that says. That no comments from all competent institutions were received at the time of the conclusion of this information, so that the right to make changes or additions is required. If we take it as one thesis or one claim, no indication of who it didn't come from. To what extent can this affect the change in the data offered to us? This is all a set of worthless, and it's a set of information that can't be trusted. The proof of this is the addition of the report, which says on page 5, paragraph 11. Thanks above all to VAT, growth in public income, etc. It was 10%, and now they're saying that 43 is changing in, that the growth is 32%, but they're not saying again who the data came from, what data, and is there anyone else who hasn't given the data that can change this number? What's going to happen to us tomorrow? So, it's about one inconsistencies and superficiality, and I'd say it freely. The second thesis that's going through this whole material, but really, if it's being analysed more carefully, it's just the way part of you claims this is, it's not like that, it's like this. And every point starts that way, every point. You thought it wasn't like this, but it's like this, and then it doesn't explain what data to say to document and prove it. Another important problem. So these are data that simply indicate that the question of the credibility of all other data, at least questionable, is at least questionable. This material in front of us tells us about the triangularity of the administration that we have and we create daily. We live at the time of the current availability of all the necessary information in any part of the globe, and we get materials with a delay of three or four months or more. Something's wrong. What's wrong, it's the task of all of us to see it, to find it, because, really today, whatever happens in the world, we know it, we have a five-minute disposition. In five minutes. What's the reason we're getting the dragons and the additions of data for the third month today? The second thing he's saying, it's also about us, the fact that this material doesn't reflect the situation on the ground. I'm giving an example. There are no words here, and as it reflects on most people, or ordinary citizens of this country, we who live and walk in that space every day. Go to any catering facility in this country or 80% of others who provide some services and wait until you get an account, which says VAT so much or service done or so, you won't, gentlemen. When you ask if you have an account, they look at you with wonder. And we have so many inspections, so many police, so many OSAs so many SIPAs, so much Bog knows more than there are and what they're doing. But the mass of such places times small incomes are big money, big money. It's a question of who and how those who do it should deal with it. The second thing that has already been for me, and I wouldn't be on it, is the question of the projected 80 million for social purposes, let's say for the socially endangered categories, without telling who started the implementation, when in what amount, etc. How much of this is at least problematic, and I quote and confirm point 36, where there is one claim, which is a bit, in my opinion, amazing. It says, due to the lower expected price growth on 10 basic life supplies and the necessary impact and the necessary impact of VAT on the budget of the socially endangered, it was also less than originally envisaged six KMs. And now, next, it's standing next. We predicted six. Statistics say it has grown 3 km, and the governments have given 10 marks. That means in other words that it's better for people, it's better for 7 marks, they have a better standard after the introduction of VAT, because we predicted that the prices of 10, I'm talking about the key groceries than those six, and they've gone away the 3rd, and we've given the people 10 marks. It means they're getting better. I do not know in this country whether you will find someone in these categories who will take seriously what is written here and the highlight of our drama or tragedy in which we are in need is, your proposal in amendments and amendments to the Law, means, your proposal to amend the Law, which, if you carefully analyse compared to what was previously proposed, therefore, compared to what was previously proposed, has only one amendment, and that amendment says. These amendments should only be made if consent is obtained from the Management Board, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. So if we don't get consent from them, that's not necessary and that's the only difference 44 to the first material. That's a sentence that we all need to imagine ourselves over. I've had so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24461	Thank you very much. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, followed by Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24462	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished gentlemen and ladies of the Council of Ministers, I must admit that I was for the first time today in doubt whether I should speak at all about this item of the agenda. Everything we've said so far has already been said. I wish this report were true. I wish this report reflected the true state of affairs. Unfortunately, it is all just a report that depicts what we wanted to see, even this report does not give what this parliament asked of it. This opportunity report tells the citizens of this country very simply, dear people I don't even know what the problem is. The prime minister, or pardon, first sent the director of the administration to tell us in the absence of himself several basic indicators, and the man gave us several indicators correctly, but he is, however, the last man we wanted to see today and hear, because he is not responding politically, he is responsible for implementing the law as they are. He is not responsible for the consequences of the Law and the consequences of the destructive policy. Then the Prime Minister came and told the people to God, don't you see that you're all right? Can't you see that all this increased 52% income, 52%. So, really, when a country actually increases fiscal income by 52% compared to the previous year. It says, in effect, that people were taken from their pockets 52% more money, that the economy was taken from its flows 52% of the money. That means our lives are 52% better today than they were a year ago and you don't see that you're better off today than you were a year ago, my dear people. Then here we are offered a consumer basket of believe or not of 226 marks. I propose to the President of the Council of Ministers, his advisors, not for information, but for those who made this. If they tried one month to live out of 226 marks of that consumer basket they offered to the commoner, let them try and let us, it would probably be good for them if the one in London who was in the ball was, in the water that he tried to spend, he'd probably spend more in that water in London. We barely got him out of there alive. Try to find someone, bring them in front of the cameras, who, with 226 of your consumer average stamps, survived last month. For your information basket is statistical about 500 marks, and you have a reason to say let's spend the same of us who have a lot of us who have little, so we know that's the case. Is this a suggestion for those who spend a little bit less, for those who spend much more. Since we've increased income by 52%, apparently now the drugs are going to be 50. 52% of the money goes into drugs, they're going to come back to the pensioners because there's money. Look how many pensioners it takes to get. See how much health care needs money. How much medicine is spent on health care. Ask the man who lives at 220 marks, how much the drugs cost him, ask and you'll get an answer that probably won't fit into this, in this information. I, I really think Mr. Color Chairman would have been if the Prime Minister hadn't shown up. Now I fully understand why he tried to keep Parliament under anesthesia, so that later this information would come before us. 45 So, be careful now we're being offered, what are the proposals for conclusions? They have two conclusions, so the third one is added. The first conclusion is, what they suggest is that that article 72 be abolished legally. Watch out, it's 19 today. Home to the people, tomorrow we have a 20. We abolish that article 72. The home of the people in a few days, it is 23. until it is published in the Official Journal on June 30th and July 1st, article 72, and for those who do not know it, Article 72 says that since July 1st, money has been returned to those who have not been returned to the economy. Article 72 says that by July 1st he couldn't return, and now if we don't cancel that article, then the people of July 1st will start to get their money back. And if we cancel article 72, then they'll start coming back from July 1st, because we've been waiting six months to end it. So, we are only proposed to abolish Article 72, which is abolished over time, and I can extend six months by decision of the Management Board. Look, since Beriz has suggested that the board of directors shut him down, then I guess they're not that much to wave, or, excuse me, in fact, the right to tell you that I don't know if, therefore, the debate is spreading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24463	Please let the gentleman finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24464	I was expecting Mr. Chairman today to tell us a little about the economic trends involved, just to remind you, in March 2004, we adopted a development strategy here. I expected it to be said today when we've been waiting six months, to see what's been done. Let me remind you, then it is said that unemployment will decrease further in 2004. Unemployment increased this year. At that time, inflation is said to be 2% in 2005 and 2006 respectively. Today you have in this favorite newspaper some people here, says the biggest inflation since Dayton to this day. I mean, I don't trust them anything, but bogami damn it, this seems to be consistent with my data. Really inflation is the biggest from Dayton to today. In 2004, we were told, and it was repeated when we had this program, I even have this program right here in front of me. I guess it's my fault to keep it and analyze it. I have a program here. He says, a proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of an increase in basic food prices. This program is, to remind you, you remember that famous program that said it was resting on a very simple fact, which, in fact, says I'm quoting point 1. The programme comes from the assumption that the standard of living depends on spending on the amount of income, that's the famous programme, which the President of the Council of Ministers told us, if you spend more, then you'll have a bigger problem, and if you have a smaller income, then your problem will decrease, and that program has indicators very exact. None of this has been filled. No projection is seriously met. It's standing there, please, and that's the answer to the key question. What's the use of this kind of money that's been collected? What's gonna happen to them? Why isn't one of those money given what's written in the program, to get back to pensioners, to have the social funds increase. Look, please, now it says the truth here, that's what the others were talking about, here it is, really telling us that the cell phone number has increased. I didn't know it was a direct consequence of the VAT. There's even one spectacular curve that looks really spectacular, look, the number of cell phones has increased by 10%, and that's a fact. I don't know why he didn't give the parallel information to see how many phones were increased in Angola, Bangladesh, Burundi, Zurundi, in all possible apartments from Kazakhstan. So the number of phones increased as a result of VAT. It also stands here on this corrected, that God didn't make this right. Corrected data. He says finely that in the Federation of Health, no less, that health funds are side 5. 41st point, which is 40th earlier, the summation of health insurance funds in the Federation for the first four years says that by 12% by 46 of the same period in 2005, so health has increased, the truth in Republika Srpska... there is 4%, and in the Federation 12%, and then when you look at the table on the next side, you see that the reverse fell in the Federation by 12%, eh now something is not true either the table or the claim. Probably neither. And besides, it doesn't mean anything by itself. It just means that people today are trying to get the healthcare they need. The other day a friend of mine told me that he was in a hospital up in Koshevo, the prime minister knows him, he died the wrong man, so he had a problem on duty. I'm saying that a wrong man can die, I guess every man dies wrong, so he says he had someone else's health care. Namely, the man came up, until he found someone medical in someone else's name, so since there's no ID, then there died a man, died. 30% of people say they don't have basic health care. There's no basic health care. 30% of the people in this country are the wrong people, according to the methodology offered here. What we're talking about and then 52% increase in income, please. Consumer basket union cost 300 marks. The children's basket costs 226 marks a month for the four-member family, and the consumer basket costs 1,300 marks a month. You know how much that is? This is 2.5 people employed in a four-member family with pensioners a slightly bigger problem 5.5 pensioners must join a four-member family to survive. It's a little theoretically difficult to do, normally, they can all live great with that, one pensioner can support that consumer basket of theirs. In other words, let the people get serious. Yeah, well, while there's still time, we'll figure out a few of those urgent things. We have a law tomorrow, we have two laws of our own, among other things. We have here, tomorrow is the law by article 105. We've all discussed that drugs, folk cuisines, these are those philosophical associations that they call daily weekly newspapers, printing, papers, to put it on zero. That's what it costs from their calculations 80 million a year. 80 million a year. I know that now, if you want to add basic life supplies to us, it's 255 million a year's savings. They tell us even in the information finally, unconsciously gave us the calculations. They keep wondering where your calculations are? They claim that it is not true, they say here that 255 million would, in the budgets, be less if bread, milk, basic life supplies, medicines, and all that we as parrots were to learn, and if only drugs, just medicines, books, learning and folk cuisine and presses, if it were to be excluded, all the budgets would be worth 80 million a year, about 7 million a month. So, without any big story he can adopt tomorrow, and we can't have someone from the Administration come and say, you know, I can smuggle drugs. Some cosmetic material can be put under drugs, because they keep telling us bread can be smuggled under cakes, so that's why. I have that argument again. So, first thing I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that Parliament today concludes that the Council of Ministers is listening to what we have said. Let them do what they want, but let's adopt a few things by emergency procedure. You see this material that this Evropljanin gave us here. We received this letter, which the Prime Minister proudly called. He proudly called for a man from the European Union to be the director of something, and this director, I apologize to the Director General for something he told us and he quotes what man wrote to us here in English fine. He says, he found the man and you see here we know Mr. Prime Minister in December we talked about the VAT thing and you told me then, and now I'm writing to you what you told me. He complained to a poor man, that we didn't understand him, that he was misunderstood, and if the director could tell him that that zero was wrong and the director told him. As part of what we talked about, we say that zero is not in order 47, and then it says, reduced rates would result in lower budget revenues. This lack should be seen in the context of the budget expenditures already envisaged, as well as other fiscal burdens. Therefore, amendments to the legislation at this time, without reducing expenditure, could pose a serious threat. There we are, Miki means. You can't cut this if you don't cut expenses, and that's why I expected it to be told here, not that lilies convinces us what the IMF director told us. The problem here is that of these couples there's a lot of money and that money obviously this government and that's all the talk, that's what people need to know. This government is about to bribe people in the next three months. Let's face it. You took their money. You took the money. You know that money doesn't belong to the state because they have to come back later, it's said in each textbook in the first year there's that business that gets together, and then in the second year there's a need for a refund, which only the irresponsible spend in the first year. You're irresponsible because you want to spend this now and then to the new government... because you know you won't be Prime Minister anymore, you would prove everything... that you were a good prime minister for leaving us in black, to wrap us up, to leave us in a black hole that we need to come after. So this is about, from this information you can see precisely, precisely, that you want to spend before elections of money that are not state, but that you took from people, as an advance, and you've resulted in higher prices for an ordinary man, except for one who manages 226 marks to survive with a four-member family, which is probably something that even the prime minister can trust. So, I would, too, along with these proposals, why didn't the diameter answer us today and ask him to tell us what, two and a half years later the law on distribution, two and a half years ago. Now here as a folk, these as from the RS folk in fiscal, as they are called, they as dams of the RS, and as those of the Federation do not. Well, they take something, and we don't have 32, so let it all go down until we say what, so they don't want the law. They want these three months to be the defenders of their entity and their people. So, I suggest Mr. Chairman the motion of my conclusion is. To reject this information and make sure that, in accordance with such conclusions, we are told tomorrow about those laws that are before us. There is much more to be said, however, this loses more sports character. I would just ask you, Mr. Chairman, to allow us to go through these laws as quickly as possible tomorrow, to try to adopt some of these laws, and I have the conclusions that I have proposed to the Prime Minister, which I have given since the introduction of fiscal registers, zero rates on this, to the reduction of tax rates, progressive rates on salaries, corporate taxes, all of this to you now to tell him you're free of charge. Whatever we can figure out. We concluded a month ago, and I am surprised that you are not ready to leave Parliament because you did not come out because the man did not realize to you that Parliament's conclusion that he will bring Špir the information of the bypasses around Sarajevo about that scandal that construction firms cannot compete in BiH. The man promised us he'd give it to us. We should leave him alone here. Maybe you'd hear something for yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24465	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24466	And everything we propose here doesn't matter. Every conclusion you adopt and that we simply don't listen to them and Mr. Chairman, at the very end. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24467	You all have plenty of room for a reasoned debate, not that kind of personalization, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24468	No personalization. Then without personalization, please, every argument of a guy told us a stranger, I suggest you don't respect him here for one simple reason why strangers told us anything and people only use what they like. Here's where the IMF man said what I said a year and a half ago, that they calculated 15% that is enough if it's a unique rate and they didn't listen to it. They made a deal to make it 17. Now says man, I agree with 15 of this same IMF. Now it's not an argument, it's an argument from a Europe that says don't zero unless you cut expenses. So, I suggest, Mr. Chairman, not as a conclusion, but as a fair player, let's relax a little what the foreigners think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24469	Lock it in writing, please deliver.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24470	Is that a written conclusion? The information is being denied. That's not what I need. I'll formulate it if it's complicated, if it's unclear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24471	It's not unclear, it's just to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24472	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24473	Mr. Avdić, so, the College has an obligation at half past two, and I think it'll be good for everyone to take a break for lunch, fit in by half past two, work out and then go on at 14:30.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24474	And members of the Council of Ministers, I think, Mr. Chairman, it is good that the future new government wants clean bills before October 2006 and in this context, it is good that this discussion is conducted in this way. Namely, I was one of the MPs who requested the report, not the information. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24475	It's a good discussion. We have relevant information from the Council of Ministers, and I really think the debate is good, to make good conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24476	The goal was to have no information, rather than to have a report on the effects of VAT in the past period. So, not just January-March, but just practically to date. In this context, the fact that VAT people are not the invention of the Council of Ministers is neither the invention of Adnan Terzić or Čaušević or I don't know who in BiH either. That is, the people's strongest economic reform in the past ten years, after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, and it is logical that it causes such controversy. No Niko has the right to seek political profit that he has introduced VAT into BiH etc. It is European criteria and European standards of people. It's not a good idea, etc. Which means, really, let's not convince ourselves that it's a political profit and whether it has any right to use it in a pre-election campaign really doesn't make sense. It is one thesis that must be accepted and that in such a way we simply communicate. Secondly, there was a feeling that Parliament did not interfere again in its business and logically that we had come into this difficult situation from a point of view, I would say, BiH's economic development policies. We do not have a strategy for economic development, we have medium-term development strategies, one and the other, regulations of the chairman, etc., but objectively, we do not have a systemic approach to the development of the economy in BiH and so today the state is politically unstable, financially unsustainable, etc. And now we need to ask ourselves, after the introduction of the VAT, after six months indeed, Mr. Čaušević, the chairman is gone, but the Council of Ministers needs to be asked. Whether people, i.e. citizens and peoples in BiH, live better or worse after six months of VAT administration. Number one. Whether they live better or worse. Two. Do we have more employees after VAT? Did we raise the export competitive capacity of the BiH economy and how much we raised it? For how much we reduced the external trade imbalance, i.e. the catastrophic imbalance with our neighbours from the aspect, simple business etc. So, when you see this, I think that, however, people in Bosnia don't live better after more than five months, they don't live, we have more unemployed, and in this context only these two criteria warn the Council of Ministers that there are no answers to any questions. Well said, there are no answers to any questions. The other day, we had a meeting here with humanitarian institutions, national societies, Dobrovard, Renode, Merhamet, Benevalence, Karitac etc., people pointed out that in BiH today 700,000 people are in a state of social need, no less than 700,000 people. We have 500,000 on the bureau and now you can think that we have a difficult and extremely uncertain economic and social situation in BiH. Which means that Parliament did not, I would say, when VAT was introduced, decide on a strategic fact, whether social policy will lead through VAT or we will lead social policy according to social funds and in a different way, and that is a key issue here really not to be fooled. The key question is whether we're really going to lead social policy through VAT. So, we have humanitarian these national societies, so they have real problems, they're burdened, food is expensive, public cuisine is under question, is it resolved by changing customs tariffs for importing their semi-factories, conditioned all that is needed for public cuisine, or we're going to participate through social funds. This is a truly fundamental issue and a theoretical and practical issue today in BiH. I think that all countries, most countries, however, social policy does not lead through VAT, does not run 50 via VAT and it is important to maintain a consistent model. If we adapt the VAT to every request, then we'll certainly get into even worse chaos, with simply inexplicable consequences. I ask Mr. Čaušević, what are the effects of these 34,700 companies, says they were not registered until the VAT was introduced? You can imagine what they've been doing for the past ten years. What kind of robbery was BiH? I say the public robbery was BiH 34,700 enterprises were not registered. Where are the inspections, where is the system, where is the state, etc.? 34,700 companies weren't registered. What did we do before, Mr. Jahić? We've had a sanctioning instrument before. We had a tax policy. Tax on sales of products and services and everything else. Where did 34,700 companies hide themselves? As possible in one small country, in such a small space, etc. Which means, I'm asking you to keep social policy out of VAT. We're going through social funds. We have a lot of resources, conditionally said, relative resources, which can reconcile both essential drug lists and neutralise the bad effects on the graphic industry, enable societies of humanitarian organisations to act in the same way as they have so far done their high-level humanitarian work and simple activity and in this context solve problems in a completely different way. And today, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers has said nothing. The most recent topic today, this morning, the paper is full of how we're going to share VAT. There's no talking about it. The code doesn't interest Parliament. Whether it's going to be a fixed relationship between the entity and the Brcko District or it's going to be where spending is simply being realized. It's just a fundamental, crucial question, a crucial question really. Not a word about it today in the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24477	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković, let Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović prepare, and after that we will give a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24478	Dear Chairman, esteemed guests, fellow MPs, given that on behalf of the Club, Mrs Milićević will speak more about the information itself, I will only be a few aspects and will try to be as brief as possible. After this preparation of the new power to come to power by Mr. Lagumdžija, of course, as said Sejo, it's time for the bills to be clean, so that people know how many they didn't do when they came. Here when a man reads this report, when I read it, I wondered if I lived in this country or in another country, or if this was described here in BiH or if this is where I live in BiH. So, and now I'm in a dilemma about whether I live in the same country, or in the same country that this report refers to. We have here, indeed, received a set of data in which a man, when a little bit of an analysis of several reports, is very hard to believe. In fact, different data are all in doubt, and this is a major problem for me at all, possibly to raise doubts about the accuracy of this information. I'm not talking statistics, I'm talking about the way statistics show certain data, I'm talking about the accuracy of data. So here we have, I have a budget for the macro-economic analysis of the Board of directors of indirect taxation, which says exports have increased by 39%. This information 51 says exports increased by 41%. So is it 39 or 42%? So we have that income growth is again the macroeconomic analysis division says 41%, we say 52%. So, look, two materials from the same Council of Ministers' Proposer cover of imports by export. The first report says 54%, the updated report says 53%. So, the exact same material from the same promoter. Of course, I refer to this as an example which, unfortunately, raises doubts about the accuracy of the data, and then, of course, the accuracy of the conclusions that arise from this. I'm not going to talk about some of the aspects my predecessors talked about right now. That even the information states that we have a standard growth, and then in the same information, we have that the salaries have increased, say in RS by 9 KM, and 1.7%, respectively, prices by 9% and our standard has increased. So it just doesn't make any economic sense. Some here thesis or findings have no economic logic. About the effect of VAT on exports on the way one finding was carried out, there is no particular need to spend words, probably nowhere but with us. I don't believe it's said anywhere, but I have to say one finding that just doesn't stand. Look out, we got 45 million back to the exporters. That's what he says. We've never been back before. We haven't even taken them yet. So far, my people, the exporter didn't pay the sales tax, because he gave the order that it was reproductive material and I don't know the other materials and people didn't even pay the sales tax and we had nothing to pay them back. Now they've paid for it and I'm planting it back. So we're getting back what we took from them. So we just didn't give them back anything we haven't already taken from them, if we don't count the VAT on the phone and on the electricity, which, here, we're going to get it back, and we took it. And just some findings don't stand here, that I'm not talking now about improving standards through mobile phones, etc. What I could get out of this is that the problem with citizens is not material, not economic, but psychological. People don't see they're fine. So it's a psychological moment. People have, they're fine, but they don't see, they haven't figured out, they're a little harder to figure out. Also, some findings here, come on now, I think Sejo had the wrong one here information. Namely, about this number of registered companies, etc., so it's said that the number of registered companies is larger, I think it's wrongly interpreted, it's bigger than it's planned, but people are not successful in reform, it's bad planning, it's a negative moment of planning, not a success that's registered more than we've planned. Well, I guess it's normal for us to register all those who need to work, who are going to work, and people can't work if they're not registered. We had bad data, and not only these, but many other inputs. And in the end, two questions. If all this is true, where's the money? Let's ask people where the money is. We've taken money from production, industry, if you don't see gentlemen of the Greek economy. We took money from people, if you don't see people up there alive and moved money into public spending. If that's the future, we say it's the future. 52, let's take the data from here, 52 has increased income from VAT, the data I doubt, but, here, 52. Republika Srpska's government has reported that it has met its budget with 97%, which was 20% higher than last year's realisation. The municipalities have less money than they had last year. Missing money between the state budgets, entities and municipalities. I'm only asking one question now. Where's the money from this VAT? We wanted it from people, let's not say we didn't take it from ordinary citizens. We took it from ordinary citizens, and we didn't spin it. I don't think it makes much sense to discuss, and here's 14 and 30, I think I respect the obligations of the College, and I'm going to end this. I don't think it makes any sense to accept or reject information, because all one thing doesn't mean is that we accept 52 information or not, but I'm just saying, if this is all the same, then I expect us to reduce the VAT rate from 17 to 14% that I suggested in my law and that will be at one of the next sessions. So, we have, we can, so if we can already help these ordinary citizens so we can reduce their load as much as we can, at least 3%, then maybe they'll feel something, because this is not how they feel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24479	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović, you applied for the hearing? All right. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, if you won't be long, because we'll have to go or do that later.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24480	What does that mean, how much?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24481	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24482	Well, right to tell you, I can give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24483	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24484	First, I tried not to read this information about effects exclusively through the glasses of my profession and the work I'm doing, so maybe I won't be as critical as anyone might expect, but I'll focus on what's in front of us under the title of the Impact Information. I listened with attention to the discussions so far, just to remind my colleague Gligorić that, quote: “If we are asked to pass a law, then we are asked not to change it.” I was kind of initiated by one question. To which end, we make laws at all, and hence, the Law on an indirect taxation system, i.e. VAT. Is it aimed at increasing budget revenues, introducing tax discipline in this area to which this applies, a single economic space, or, say, creating a favourable business environment, which means we use fiscal policy as a developmental one. I, unfortunately, must say, often these arguments are used.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24485	Please stick to your conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24486	Often these arguments are used in favour of the positive effects of this tax reform, and I would like to put that aside at the beginning. Tax, or fiscal reform, is not exhausting on the reform of the indirect taxation system, nor can the effects of the indirect taxation system be seen in a few months, and this is the first thing I'm saying, that 53 is not exhausting on the indirect taxation system alone, I'm going to ask you a question. What about the direct taxation system? As a very important part and as a follow-up for success and these tax reforms, or, for example, with a social security system, contributions, etc. as an integral part that this reform could also take the mark of success. So, to break down some of these myths, including senior officials from the Council of Ministers and some sitting here in front of the Council of Ministers, who often tell us that we have increased incomes, budgets, achieved a single economic space, created a business environment, or tax policy is as if we have completed tax and fiscal reform. Furthermore, I will try briefly, just to inform you that the effects of one part of the tax reform can be measured by the effects on personal consumption, when it comes to the system of indirect taxation, investment consumption or business consumption, state consumption and all that includes export-export consumption or the external trade segment. We here have a good part of the data relating to personal consumption. We have very little to do with the business sector, i.e. almost in no way the effects of introducing VAT on individual producer groups in BiH, and therefore the effects on increased unemployment or, unfortunately, the lack of effects on increased employment. Furthermore, when we talk about increased budget revenues here and what is particularly highlighted as the best result of this tax reform, we do not have, say, what it means as a basis for social programmes or what may be the worst we have the potential for financial resources to reform the social sector and create a single social insurance network, which will be a sustainable system in implementing further economic activities in this segment. When it comes to the foreign trade sector, I, unfortunately, must say that I am very skeptical of this data, and I appreciate that there are a lot of data here that should concern the authorities, especially those who run economic policy in this segment, even when the data is positive. Why did I bring this up? Several colleagues and colleagues in previous discussions mentioned, let's just say this analysis, i.e. the information that was provided to us, which said that the data of entity statistical institutions were used in preparation, and then Lagumdžija mentioned a statistical basket, and then later a union consumer basket, etc. We here in this text have one title that nowhere in the world exists. And that's the entity's consumer basket. I'd like someone to explain it to me. What does that mean, an entity consumer basket? Is this what people spend differently on entities, or instructing us in their consumption, especially when it comes to these supplies, or services that are listed as relevant for the assessment in this analysis. If we're talking about a key macroeconomic reform, then let's also refer to macroeconomic data. It's certainly not entity or cantonal or local, you know. Furthermore, this information here says in point 3 of the introduction on page 2 among other things about the following ten foods. Well, let's say my colleague Lagumdžija says, "How much do medicines cost to the poor?" Let me remind you, my colleague Lagumdžija, there are no medications here, because apparently the poor don't need to be treated. It's a very ugly message. I appreciate, yes, it was really necessary to cover all those supplies, or services, especially when it comes to urban areas. Here, for example, we find ourselves an el. energy, wood for scratches, and there is no gas, which is also how relevant to this type of analysis. This information deserves, indeed a few comments, but I'm going to try to just draw your attention to point 18 point 9 that says one thing. It is important to stress that 54 consumers in all places where prices have been recorded had the opportunity to buy basic life supplies and at unchanged or significantly lower prices. I, I really think you can stop here. He says the Statistics Agency recorded the movement of average prices, but also the movement of average lowest prices. Here is the mention of the Statistics Agency, and here mentions reference entity statistics etc. So this information really is something that deserves one and how important retouch, not only linguistic and professional nature, but to question whether it is responsible for the introduction of VAT, especially those who have profiled themselves in the public as perhaps negative effects or someone on the other hand points out as positive. I think this parliament should, indeed, have all relevant information in front of it to discuss the first effects of VAT. By the way, I just mentioned three or four bribes attached to this, which could have been heard in this House and in the debate so far. I would like to remind you that tax reform involves, in addition to the system, reforming the system of indirect taxation and direct taxes, which, unfortunately, remained in the jurisdiction of lower levels of government, which also meant and should have meant reforming the tax administration, i.e. the entity administration, the Brcko District and the cantons. As a result of this reform, I'll just remind you that with 17% of VAT, we all know that we also have the Directorate for indirect taxation, which took over indirect taxes and took over about 400 employees from the tax administrations of entities, who stayed somewhere with about 80% of the job, so 400 employees less, or one third of the income compared to the IRS, but stayed with the same budgets. This therefore points to the need for urgent reform of the system, direct taxation and administration systems, i.e. tax institutions and administrations. Without it, fiscal policy in BiH has no prospects for development policy and we here need to finish this story. Furthermore, what are the reasons for urgent reform. I don't think we have time to wait for the election, or to score election points here in this story. First, let me remind you of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on which the negotiations are being negotiated and which we hope will be successfully signed at the end of this year, at least as we are informed, implies inter alia the liberalisation of trade with the European Union, which is our external trading partner in the range of somewhere around half trade. How that also implies a fall in customs-based income and that segment for which we do not have autonomous trade privileges. We must urgently approach the reform of the direct taxation system and pass an urgent new excise law. Secondly, a unique economic space that implies in the fiscal sector. So in other segments, it has its own dimension, but in the fiscal sector, a single system of indirect taxation, a single system of direct taxation, a single policy of social security contribution. The existing situation, which results in large differences in tax and contribution rates, as labour costs and directly threatens the sustainability of the existing number of jobs in the formal sector. I think if we don't do it urgently in the next few months, we can only record increased unemployment in BiH. Furthermore, non-economic fiscal competition, i.e. unhealthy fiscal competition between entities, is a direct threat to the sustainability of existing and such poor economic indicators in BiH, at least when it comes to employment, investment, the size of economic activity as a whole, etc. And what I would especially like to draw attention to, is the application of a single indirect taxation system with all the advantages it brings in itself, it opens up a number of questions. 55 First, the very ban on return on income, that famous member of 72, who would be very good at explaining to us why he was even in law in such a formulation, which he brought, which represents a drastic example of discrimination in traffic, which he does not know at all international trade practice. Even more international rules relating to this area are strictly prohibiting discrimination of this kind. And secondly, in the absence of medium-term budgetary programming and orientation to the annual budgetary policy, there is no spending control mechanism based on entity-level VAT. So we have a state reform at an expensive level, we don't have an entity-level control mechanism and, let's say what we can expect. If such a trend is continued, as data say, and as estimates say, that is, the expectations of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the revenues planned on entity budgets will be realised in late October. I especially warn you, given the election year, what will happen to the crossings that will be recorded by the Administration on the basis of the opportunities of funds in November and December. There is no, absolutely no guarantee mechanism that entity governments, which will be in some instance, are likely to target these funds, for example. In what someone calls social programs. One of the things that points to an urgent reaction, not only to the Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, but also to this Parliament. In this regard, we need to draw some conclusions urgently, and in that sense, I suggest. Yes, or, on the basis of this, just a few truly hints in the absence of enough time, I'll mention that this is just a great example that anything that changes here is not a reform. I guess under the idea of reform, it should be understood, especially if we qualify it as a successful reform one fundamental shift in all segments. This is just one small segment of the overall economic reform, especially one third of the tax reform, that this information should first be reviewed. In what way, i.e. to do some retush and, indeed, profile the first effects, with the understanding that, indeed, the effects of switching to VAT cannot be expected in a few months. Furthermore, to draw a few conclusions in these segments, which I apostofofophic as an emergency, and indeed with an urgent need, if I wanted to draw attention, if we missed the chance, to arrange in these important areas several of these segments to sort out the state of things, not only to realize, or not to have any effects, but to have a positive but to have both negative effects. I warn and invite, indeed, especially colleagues who understand me well in the economic sense of the word to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24487	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. The sequel will be 15 to 3. The first is Mr. Jahić, so Mr. Duraković is registered for discussion. [[PAUZA]] The first in line of the hearings was Mr. Elmir Jahić. Here you go, Mr. Jahić. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24489	Thank you President, Eve, today we have had the opportunity to hear from the President of the Council of Ministers, people who work at the Directorate for indirect taxation, but also positions and opposition, that it is essentially early to form this kind of information, therefore, the introduction of VAT after the first three months, it is done for at least six months to a year, but, behold, we have done it, but obviously cannot have objective indicators and parameters in all segments. But in my opinion, one of the important questions is why we really rushed to do this information quickly and why it was asked to introduce that information as soon as possible. I would like to remind all of us, that the reason why, therefore, was that by announcing the introduction of VAT, that huge social problems would arise, that the flood would occur, and in that jargon were used by tsunamis, etc., and there would be an enormous collection of products, destruction of domestic production, an increase in unemployment, an increase in the gray economy, etc. Well, today we don't have that, well, then some other reasons need to be taken and that we'd surf on it or that we have to say that we rightly asked for that information, where we wanted that information to get that VAT results to be a disaster and that it shouldn't have gone into it. However, they are clearly different indicators. I would really like, in particular, to say the positive effects, especially the positive effects to point out. In fact, the VAT has narrowed down significantly to tax fraud and the grey economy, and we know that we have nearly 16,000 new taxpayers, who are now paying taxes. We know that public revenues, based on indirect taxes in last 2005, increased by 14% compared to 2004, which is more than 100% higher than it was in 2004 compared to 2003. The VAT return worked well, with concerns expressed by certain professional and other circles showing unwarranted reasons. Also, VAT started to act stimulatingly on exports. There was a high export growth, etc. Also, when these employment figures are taken, therefore, there are other data where employment is said to be an increase. What I'm saying is, we seem to be, when adopting this legal solution and everything that preceded it, saying that VAT is not going to run social policy, but that social policy needs to be regulated by other legal solutions and other levels, and I especially underline that when I propose my conclusions, I think we can do so in accordance with our commitment to adopt these conclusions that I'm going to propose. Far from that, yes, on behalf of the club, far from being honey and milk, it's a great condition, that it's great, etc., but, normally, the state and the social economy are not satisfactory in the country, that it should be better, but far from, that a total disaster occurred by introducing VAT. Apparently, some other indicators speak for themselves. What I'd also like to say is, it makes me feel like there's no problem here, we keep saying, here, we have a huge collection of funds from indirect taxes on one side. On the other hand, we are saying that citizens should be helped, that citizens are in a social, difficult social situation, but now the problem is that we give these funds to citizens and what is the problem. The problem is why now this current government needs to give. if that is a fundamental problem, I really propose 57 that it be an attitude, that it is the position of the opposition, that the opposition gives its findings these funds and that those funds be shared with citizens, wartime peoples, returnees, families of Shehids and dead fighters. Here, we don't have any merits, whoever brought power, the Council of Ministers, the entity government, any summons, entity parliaments, don't have any merit, here's the merit of the opposition, but let's do what we have to do. So, if you think someone's going to sign up, they're going to have to take some kind of medal. We should say, often it seems to me that these funds, the surplus of these funds, are collected, thus gaining the impression of the robbery of citizens. We should say that instead of 20,000, here we have 35 or 36,000 taxpayers and I agree with Professor Avdić. So we have these funds are the result of the surplus of the collected funds, primarily the tax system and the system that was introduced, and on the other hand, more of these taxpayers who are now paying taxes. The fact that they haven't paid so far, the fact that they've stolen the state so far, eh, that, in my opinion, there's another debate and maybe some other organs. So, the judiciary, the prosecution, why so far, the people who worked before, no matter who worked in those IRS and other services. So now we have one such situation. Given that both this information and given what the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, which was said by the chairman of the committee responsible, therefore, that there are some laws in this procedure, that the opinion of MPs on these issues is sought, that some initiatives may be far away, but that they want to see what the position of MPs on this matter is, the SDA will propose four conclusions and one initiative, so to say, that some legal solutions are already in the process. But we're giving this opportunity support. So, number one. 1. We are looking for a change in the tax and salary laws towards reducing tax rates for PIO and health insurance, while the unworthy funds for PIO and health insurance are provided directly by transferring extra funds collected from indirect taxes from a single account to funds in PIO and health insurance. 2. We ask competent corporate tax reform, in terms of reducing and uniting rates. This provides additional funding for new investments and new employment. 3. We support the Council of Ministers' initiative to amend Article 72. The VAT law. 4. We ask the entity governments of the Council of Ministers and the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority to deposit from the surplus of the indirect taxes in an expensive fund for the return of 20 million KM. And one initiative, so we're giving the initiative to entity parliaments and governments to raise extra funds. indirect taxes focus on improving the status of social categories, in particular wartime wartime people, the family of Shehid, or killed fighters, fallen fighters, demobilised fighters, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24490	Thank you very much, Mr. Jahić. We have two replicas, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Avdić, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24491	Since Mr Jahić has reportedly mentioned the opposition here in a way that he has the right, because everyone has the right to speak what they want, but I owe two things to correct. First, every serious opposition member a year and a half ago, nine months ago, said there would be a problem with a VAT like this. No Niko from the opposition as far as I know about this pay phone was against VAT, but there were issues like this. We said that the distribution should be settled legally, that public spending should be limited, that the number of unemployed should not grow because we were told from this pay phone, only that the grey economy would be abolished, that the first-run economy would decrease by 40%, which didn't happen, that the direct foreign investment would increase, which happened exactly the other way around. That inflation won't grow, which happened exactly the other way around, etc. O is one thing. And secondly, very importantly, Mr. Jahić, no one after this opposition speaker, as far as I know, has denied you the opportunity to share anything that can be shared with social categories. And we're not asking for any credit for that. The only thing we're saying and distracting you is that your chairman of the Council of Ministers is obviously conscious or unconscious, because he once unconsciously makes plans, made a plan to share money he doesn't have, which isn't his. It's no problem to give people three pensions, but to tell them that they're pensions from October, November and December, not to give them pensions, as old as they are, and then in December there's no pension money because they spent other people's money. So it's about us being, so I repeat once again, we're about to share everything possible for social contributions but to divide as much as it is state. And now, for your information, people want to share and talk to the IMF people if I'm not enough for you, right here and your people are on the board and every day they order you out of the papers, don't waste what it is, don't spend the money that's just next year, and next year when there's no money, so what are we going to do now? Try to get involved in your business. It's a message to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24492	Thank you. Jahić, and Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24493	I would, and I would joke a little bit, I am Mr. Lagumdžija, taking seriously what you said in the previous discussion, and therefore I will no longer take what the foreigners tell us to do after this pay phone in Parliament. So don't take what the IMF said now. You just said we shouldn't take it, but I trust you when you say more than OHR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24494	Thank you very much. Sead Avdić, replica. Get Nijaz Duraković ready. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24495	Mr. Chairman, this is how we conduct the VAT debate. In fact, you see, the Council of Ministers has assessed, has estimated that there are 15 to 20,000 taxpayers in BiH, and has proved to be 34 thousand and 700 hundred. It is not a small mistake in a simple assessment of the Council of Ministers, which is 70 per cent of the 100 per cent is the Council of Ministers' error in assessing the number of taxpayers. And now, to say that this is simply the goal and the task of someone else to question it and objectively, the government has been known for 4 years who did and in this context an absolutely high degree of responsibility for both entity governments and the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24496	Thank you very much. Replica Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24497	I would just like to say, it is not the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, the rule of assessment, but there were 20 or 25 thousand taxpayers who have so far paid taxes and on this basis have been done. And because of that, you need to see where that difference of people is, that firm why they didn't pay. And you agree that the Council of Ministers had no such authority at the time and it was not, so it couldn't follow why these companies, which is the difference, tens - fifteen thousand companies, why they didn't pay the tax money.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24498	Thank you. Mr. Nijaz Duraković, please. Please, Mr. Čaušević, you can explain at the end of the debate if there are clarifications, please, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24499	Here's from what we've heard today, at least most of those who took the word, think that this information is primarily dilettantly done, that it's incomplete, that certain parts contradict themselves, that it's abundantly incorrect data, that I don't say a stronger word and as such, it's hard for anyone to be well-intentioned and reasonable to be acceptable. I, like many others here, have spoken on this subject a dozen times and it is almost that, to myself and others, I am degutant because, as far as this House seems, the stronger the arguments, the more they explain themselves, it's stronger the misrepresentation, that the misrepresentation of these arguments is greater. It's a rule that we started this debate, and there's a lot of time. The same things are going round and round again, yeah, and they're re-enabled things that just don't go, that's all. It's going back to being compared to the other one, so there's some kind of untruth going on here, too. I've spoken more than once. We have no one to compare ourselves with in Europe, at least in developed Europe. And the undeveloped one. Compare us with the skandinavac or Germany and Francisko or this, any other European-developed country, it's just funny to me. We are a small war-torn country that has almost been destitute, the country that has the highest unemployment rates in Europe in proportion to the population. If the data is correct, the animals are our organs, 518 thousand unemployed people to 4 million people. It's, it's nowhere, maybe even in the world. 60 Second, we are the country with the most sick in Europe. But that's why we have the most expensive medicine in Europe. We are the country that has the most disabled persons in Europe either war, or peacetime. But that's why we have VAT on those disabled prosthetics and on this one, which is nowhere in the world is whether. We are the country that has the highest pensioners in Europe, and we have the most and almost one pensioner on board. And most importantly, this context when we talk about VAT, we are the country that unfortunately has the most illiterate in Europe. According to serious estimates of all statistical institutions, whether entity or central, today between 18% and 22% of illiterate people are in Bosnia, but we are the only country in Europe that takes VAT and that beginner, etc. We could have made arguments by morning, no one drinking water. Here it is said to conclude the effects of VAT is early and takes at least 6 months, said Mr. Terzić. Then why did we even engage in a debate like this? He says that the analysis, I say, is that an analysis that is like this, with all the shortcomings I've mentioned, only gives positive effects. That's what I'm saying is that we have a high-quality growth rating, so it's said that we have more money in the state register, that public revenues on different grounds are even higher by 52%, that we have seen that it's not true and that it's an ordinary hoax, that it's established to strengthen tax discipline, to increase exports, and that there's been a huge stimulation for exports, that lower price increases than expected, which is a false lie, etc. And what about the negative effects? He says what he is, he's nothing, he's got the bread and he's got 20 fenings, at least in this canton of ours. It's got milk. She's collected electricity. He picked up the gas. They've collected drugs drastically, they've collected meat that no one mentions. It's collected a lot of things that, all the way to the books, to the magazines, to the soaps, to the kaladonta, to the hygiene that no one here mentions, like we're some lousy people. Social security, nothing. The real social programs we won, 100 promises, we don't have, etc. I could row now, believe me for hours. Agriculture was brought under bankruptcy. Under bankruptcy already to shut down complete bh publishing. I told us the most expensive book in the world. The drugs, too. Count according to our incomes, do not compare to Switzerland or Norway. The only one in the world is the immediate tax on humanitarian organizations. So both Karitas and the benefactor and Merhamet and Benevolencija, etc. They can't work today because they have to pay 17%. Even if you want to humanitarianally donate someone, give the hospital some funds, you have to pay the VAT. Well, that's beyond reason. And when someone tells me from those international factors, where they have it in their countries, then let them smart. We have proved to them here in Parliament, justified, when representatives were there, that of the 25 EU members only in one country is a single VAT. Only Denmark. She was the second Slovakia, and there she was, and she canceled a few months ago. So when that, because what they're doing to us isn't right for us, we're sick of these stories. And it is not in the interest of the IMF to become even more, not a colony, but a slave colony in Europe, to be an even greater social chaos, to be further in debt under the most difficult conditions, etc. And that we're taking those credits that no one can ever repay. The only one in the world we impose taxes on the deaf, the blind, the paraplegics and other disabled, the only one. You have these organizations that do something there, write whether, that have their own production. There's no difference there, whether it's Banja Luka was Mostar, Sarajevo, etc. These poor people who have been in all the systems of the world, from the Ottoman Empire to the present day, have been stimulated at least some sort of state aid. They are now brought to the terms of market business. So is this poor country going to get rich if it releases these, but tens of thousands of these people with disabilities live from it work, products or clothing or I don't know some things do or print books, etc. And in the end, we're the only ones taxing baby food. And the biggest nonsense I've heard not just today, but perhaps in the last 10 years, it's been said here, is that by introducing zero rates for certain products, it would affect the poorest layers. Did you hear that? Well, that's amazing. Here's to my kind of suggestion thinking, I support these proposals submitted by the SDP and the other, to see what this minimum activity or product is, the minimum minimum of where zero rate would be introduced. So that the state wouldn't know anything about Bog's loss. And to see by July 1st, this nonsense of abolishing this law has already been explained, a member of this 72th, that it doesn't make any sense anymore, but at least since July 1st, it's going to that rate. The arguments against were already made by both Lagumdžija and others. Listen, international factors are against it. The IMF is against it. The first question is whether or not it's against the second, let them explain why they're against it. And the third thing we care about is that they're against it. Oh, yeah. It can't get any worse. And he says, since it's hard to recalculate now, that's what we've explained. That software is made I don't know, very quickly, very easily and with little resources. And they don't need to convince us of this nonsense that a computer that rules millions of operations, does it matter to him if it's going to add anywhere zero to a dozen products? I repeat, everything said does not stand because the state with 518 thousand unemployed is a constant growth in the trade deficit. That's true. It's a constant fall, stronger inflation. It's a constant decline in citizens' standards. In fact, we're going to go to total misery and poverty. And what's most important, the entity waves they've committed, they're doing almost nothing on these social programs. Where are their social programs? Is there any way to get that money back? Is there any way that these social funds of the facility could finally be as promised? Is there anything this Parliament can do about it? Well, maybe if we don't get anything out tomorrow, we'll finally get something that looks like a bar with social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24500	I thank Mr Nijaz Duraković. The word is Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself. So we have after Mr Jovanović, the registered Mr Moranjkić, Ćeman and Križanović. That was the order of Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24501	Thank you. I will also name the Serbian Democratic Party Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24502	You're the last one to sign up. I've always been correct and there's no point in being like that, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24503	So, I want some things on behalf of the SDS, in my name, to say, about the information we have ahead of us. First of all, I want to say that I personally believe that none of us questioned the justification for introducing a tax on extra value. So, were we right when we got into that. That's very important to me. Secondly, I can't accept the address and calling of people who are working, who are managers, employees of the IRS, because I think of indirect taxation management as one segment, people who are employed to do a part of the job. As far as they're concerned, their job was to try to mean as many taxpayers animated and collect as much work as possible. And that's their part of the job. They are not relevant for the distribution of 62 funds, they are not responsible for the implementation of social policies. In fact, we cannot blame them for what she has failed to do to the legislative authorities of different levels and executive authorities. I mean, in that sense, that we don't have a Council of Ministers chairman, not a single minister, I'm working to look that way, but believe me, I don't expect answers from you. I don't think you owe the answers. You did your job the way you did, you delivered the data but it's only one segment, that's the effects that BiH has received with the introduction of an additional value tax. I also have to say at first that Mr. Duraković said a good part of what I thought and wanted to say. When we went into the story of tax on extra value, the adoption of the law pointed to everything that hit us. I was one of the board members so we supported, we were and we pushed through a solution that was a two-foot solution, a House of Representatives. What happened happened, and I'm going to say again, there's been this compromise with the executive authority where we've been promised to be notified, that they'll propose measures, that this will be followed by social programs, etc. All of what we're wondering today where it is, it's been promised. As for that, one foot or two feet for SDS has no dilemma. We believe, and in this sense we have made a proposal to amend and supplement the Law that it is simple time for this home and all of us together, so we are just one of the clubs that has sent the proposal, to seek another alternative solution. Why? The reason for this is that it means a zero rate, or reduced rate, is both Croatia and Serbia, and Montenegro has one. Here we look at this transition, not to compare to these highly developed countries, which the previous speaker said, so we'll look at the environment, and we'll look at it and say that Croatia entered with one rate of '95. Someone put out the wrong information here, so they changed that rate. It is not a zero rate problem today, BiH, in terms of European integration. It becomes a problem for Croatia when it is a step up and that we are in this situation to adopt it today, and tomorrow they tell us you will enter the EU, immediately here are those whose amendments are submitted to the amendment, delete, we are part of that story. So we can't keep citizens in this story with such promises because that path of our integration is uncertain and how we started and what the effects of the population are, the question is who lives, I guess that one will tell us what happened, who welcomes. Here Mrs Hadžiahmetović said, we have here means, I, this information that is being questioned, has already been brought in, and I will not question it in this way means, because colleagues have already commented, pointed to some inconsistencies depending on who the data source is and the like. She's talking, meaning the effects on the amount of money, according to me that's collected, about the effects she can have. There's no follow-up to the story, and that's that we entered the VAT introduction story without a clean bill. Look, now we're in a situation where it turns out that we're in a lot of pain in the head. As a matter of fact, we have some money, but it's a fight whose money it is. A policy where they're not clean, they're dirty, it all starts and ends with money, it can't come out well. And I think the failure of our home and those who led the reform, so this economic reform, why it wasn't done, was supposed to be done first by a law on the distribution of funds and then a model was chosen and said that we would work. We are now in a situation that means unsatisfactory and I say, dissatisfaction may be on one side, the other side and the third side, to ask a question and throw itself at some millions of numbers that may be there, but as long as we don't have a clean bill, there will be doubts, and doubt is the basis for many ugly things that can come out of it. So we've got that moment, we've entered without adequate laws. Secondly, here we have no analysis of the effects of VAT introduction in our economy on individual sides. We don't have a meaning here, we have this, we have industry, we have the press, we have this, we have this, we have this, we have this, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we have it, we Do we have this in construction in other industrial branches that have been affected? We're like a club so we get memos from different companies, most of it's about those companies that are full of mouths, they're small and medium-sized, you know. They're very modern now, where people write and say that their assets are trapped in the state, they can't use them, they're waiting for a return and so they can keep working, they're in debt and they're raising a lot of expensive loans to the banks and their money stands unused. So that's, we don't have that segment of what the effect is on the economy. As for external trade, imports and exports, I think that these effects that have been shown so far, that actually hasty indicators and they are the result, when we looked at a comparative analysis of the increase in imports in the last quarter last year, it is clear that our importers have prepared themselves well on the value tax and provided supplies. There's a segment of the citizens left. And I think what we talked about here today, that most of it was information, sourced from the database about the effects of VAT. And that information is just from those who pay, because it's known that the buyer is the one who's having the effects of this. Number one here, I think a colleague from the DNZ said he said it was wrong. Well, we do now, you say it's not right here. It's just us now people in those unfortunate kitchens that are threatening to close. Now we've got the only people in line and they'll be waiting, and the kitchen will be closed for taxes. That's not, that's the order we have. What are the effects? The effects are like this, from 3 million and 800 to 4 and 200 inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina we have 643.988. Unemployed 506.039. The data from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank report, so I don't listen to these suns or insides, is their data. What does this tell us? He's telling us that he's not our employee, that we're about to be employed by less than 1/6 residents. Legally on the bioir over half a million. 140 thousand differences. Now some will say that we have we know what they're doing on the black gray zone. It's relatively no state benefit from it, and they won't benefit in the long term either. If we add to this number the number of pensioners that is an unprecedented large employee-retirement ratio, if we add means disabled people and those who are unable to work, means civilian victims of a war of disabled people and add supported persons, we are actually a country and with these means 643 thousand employees go net salary 535 marks. And this is the net salary that the payers receive. Where are those who have not received the salary for a year, two, who fill the salaries of different congregations and parliaments. They're nowhere to be found here. We did a great job of skating at the beginning, and we pulled out 5-6 groceries, and we used to mix the groceries out of some of the tax exemptions in the meaning of the last tax system, and some of them had a tax of 8+2%, so we all treated them so they said they didn't grow 17%. Bread, milk, oil, flour, sugar and then down there we say detergent, personal hygiene, wood electricity and water. Well, we still have our cheeks to say that we gave it to people we needed six, we gave 10 marks. Three stamps are the only thing more expensive for them. From what we've written here, you can't make a bra, there's no salt. Now, from what you've given, it turns out that we've bought someone half a kilo of meat that they can buy in a month and what categories and a very small number, a limited number of people. Here, so secondly, as to the consumer basket, Mrs Hadžiahmetović first saw it well, so different, and secondly with us, the consumer basket is a very stretching category. It is noticed and distracted, depending on daily needs. Sometimes it can be with meat, sometimes without meat. Sometimes there can be half bread, sometimes a quarter bread. All that means depends on the need to hair the data. Now, what we're about to say is that social giving needs to be increased. You see, I accept that it means budget, if we're going to increase 64 revenues, but our budget doesn't have a development component, it doesn't predict anything being invested. Are we going to help people by offering them some 10-15 marks while they're alive to lead a naked life or should we go to a story called let's open jobs? Let's give people, nobody wants to be a normal social case of people. People want us to give them the opportunity to create their own value and then pay the value added tax, means when they receive the salary. The problem with us is that we haven't, so we haven't created a chance to create new jobs. This is the kind of tax we've introduced we haven't created an opportunity for the economy to dissipate the different givings that were told. These are contributions, different taxes. So the rest of the people are working on black. We don't have new jobs. Turns out we have extra money that's relative. With that extra money the only thing and the most important thing that I listened to when this gentleman we were, I didn't want to mention it in that light here today, which was headed by the IMF team to subdue once more, he first said the decision was yours. You've passed a law like this and you can change it, no one else. That's what the man said first, and then he said his own personal vision of things standing. Remember he said one more important thing, and if you have extra money, you have to avoid a trap for the state to spend it. It's ours. To increase public spending without a basis. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have ways, we have the basis for gentlemen to reduce public spending, i.e. to spend rationally and have room to increase public spending responsibility. We haven't done that yet. Here we have, we have the opportunity to go there, and as for the budget when it was a story of budget adoption, it appeared, it pointed to certain branches where it could be intervened, helped to develop. But it was a deaf phone game. The SDS does not want to support the conclusions resulting from this information and measure, because it does not believe that they are in line with the Management Board, are not on the Council of Ministers, that they are not the subject here today. If this is information we accept informationally because you see and the wrong information is some kind of information. So according to this, our view is that we need to change the value added tax and we've given amendments in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24504	Thank you, Mrs. Milićević. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go. Correction of the false quote Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when Mrs. Milićević spoke about the transition and I got it right. But why I want to say this. I think in Bosnia and Herzegovina we're all wrong and we're on the wrong track. It is a perfectly normal, normal tendency towards the EU. But do we know how to analyze it analytically? What does that mean? EU membership tomorrow would mean 400m euros each year's ticket is worth so much. Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have that money. Why don't we, through these programmes and other strategies within Bosnia and Herzegovina, say we want this transition period to take advantage of membership to withdraw from them the money that used to give to Baltic countries and some others in abundance, and in this way we could have come, Mr Jovanović, this is what I want to say, don't, in this way don't crush the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because in that story, you can do to the citizens whatever you want. There's no need for that. That what we are proposing from the opposition, we were able to satisfy the social moments in the state that the burdens are not borne by citizens, because they bear but to submit 65 in an even manner, but no one in the government will say it, but the EU and almost, destroy your citizen. There's no need for that. That's why it's a false allegation. We're on the wrong track. Or when I'm just saying it for a little while, since it's been said about the Directorate for indirect taxation, let me say again, there's no Chairman, Mr. Terzić. He waits patiently here, Mr. Čaušević, and means he appreciates this organ. What I criticized, etc. as regards the Administration in terms of how the Administration can rise above Parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24506	It was the wrong quote, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24507	I'm sorry. The law has allowed it, and you must act according to the law. It's not your fault that someone gave you this standard, and that's why I consider this part of the calling, etc. It should refer exclusively to the Council of Ministers Chairmans for improvising it. And I'm afraid you didn't get me wrong again. We're on the wrong track, on the wrong track. The European Union is saying we do not know how much time dimension it is, which means what we need to meet the standards and that we can do it in a better way. I guess it's not worth talking to you, but you think it's not the people's fault it's best to really finish in half an hour. I speak the essence of the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we can change wisely in favour of the citizens. But that doesn't mean anything to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24508	Or nervous, we're very patient. We respect every MP, but we can't define the essence of the change in concept that you advocate. This entire session is now serving the thematic and all this debate of all MPs that through the conclusions here we will try to go in that direction that you are talking about, Mr Gligorić. But you're looking for a misstatement, and I'm obliged to limit you to correcting the wrong quote, and you say whatever you want in it. Mrs. Milićević, what about you now?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24509	The replica to Mr. Gligorić. Thank you. Well, Mr. Gligorić, you're just what I clearly said you were able to contaminate. I simply said that the sixth protocol of the European Commission means it, which is when you come to the door of the EU says that you can't have a zero rate, and you can have a reduced, super reduced. And then I said we're going with a zero rate proposal, no one can tell us that it's contrary to the European standard, because we are able to adapt it when the time comes for what Europe is looking for. As Croatia had a unique 22% and introduced a zero, and now that zero will decrease this rate normally as they are already at the door of Europe. That's what I said, and when you were provoking, I have to say that, as if we knew this would be, when we visited the end of last year, the Directorate for Direct Taxation in Banja Luka, members of the Finance Commission, asked people a question, was the Management Board and a lot of people who here seem to be sitting and asking them – gentlemen are ready to introduce taxes, yes. What happens if we tell you in three months, in half a year, if your system is ready for a second foot in? We got the answer – we did. Are 66 of you ready if we tell you – how about a second level of rate? Yes, it is. Right here, people, I'm counting on them to stand it for the correctness of the beginning for those programs and the rest. So we get assurances that they have technical and human resources that they can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24510	Replica Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24511	...a colleague that I'm losing weight, I just know that I've always said the same thing consistently, in principle, when we've advocated both me and the opposition and said that this isn't right, you're saying it today. I don't know who's skinny now when you're defending that position as the only one who's right. You're telling another story today. Well, I don't know where you got it. You've passed the opposition, maybe then you talk fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24512	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević. Now it's a second replica, a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24513	I'm Mr. Gligorić, I didn't say that you guys went in that door or she wanted you to change your mind. That's what others tell you. But I'll tell you this. As far as I'm concerned, and I told you on my behalf. Niko one can say I raised my hand for a single VAT rate and I have a vote out. Well, everyone stand behind you, Mr. Gligorić. Oh, yeah. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24514	Thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović. Let Mr. Moranjkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24515	Here today, my colleagues said a lot, and I've been thinking and giving up the discussion, but I'm going to have to take advantage of Mr. Čaušević's presence for a very short while, and it seems to me that what's not in the report, and that is, do you have any idea how many companies are inequitable because of the introduction of the VAT? Whether in co-operation with entity chambers, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether or not with employers' associations, means that it simply means that you have some co-operation with them, because according to the information that we have, at least that's how they say that a larger number of businesses have come into such a state that there is no means of trade capital, that they must be in debt. I think Mrs. Milićević talked about it, and even if there were companies who allegedly had to stop production. Is that true, isn't it, that's why I'm asking you if you have that information? And it seems to me that we talk a lot more about how some money spends and divides, and we're much less interested in those who need to tell that money to create. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24516	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in order to complete the picture of the VAT and our condition at this time, it is necessary that some other things be lit up and touched or called for and pointed out to some things which are either not defined, or were not said at all in this report, and I am thinking loudly to myself and to someone who was doing that report. So I'm going to focus my part of the exposure more in the form of questions that I haven't had here a clear and clear answer through this report, and that's what I'm interested in when it comes to the effects of introducing VAT in the last few months. I heard through the report that credit funds, we know through the law what it means when it's talking about loans over 50 million and that they're currently in the back account, so I'm interested in what you did to this report is the reason that these credit funds are there, and they're not returning to whoever they belong to or are not performing the function that they need to perform from that name credit funds. I believe that those lying there are justifiably raising the suspicion that is here, let's say Mr Lagumdžija in part of his one speech and pointed out. Although I don't have to doubt it, it's only my own question that's why I'm asking him. I am also interested in whether in the Administration of indirect taxation or the Council of Ministers someone has dealt with the investigation in this past time and analysis of how the situation was, what would be the state of financial effects and other effects of which Mrs Azra spoke, which are part of the problem of reform of the area whose only part of this VAT law is. And in this context, to make a comparison of what it would do in a negative or positive sense, the differential rate at which we see here at the end we start going back and going around it again compared to this unique one that was introduced and even one modification and the unique one that moves as some say 14, and so on. What are the effects that would be in that particular case, which could have been with a few nice sentences to show. In particular, I insist that and whether and how much of the effects of such VAT have been included in programmes that we call social programmes and how many of these categories of people have felt these programmes, or who makes up all these categories. I have information that 2/3 of the population of this country should in some way have been subdued by some dynamics in part of these aids, and that these programmes are exclusively for those on the social workers' lists. And you know who's at our social work center, and those categories that someone here mentioned from the wait-and-wait workers to these and those, etc. a series of sub-categories that I think should be the subject of social programmes and whether they are thinking about whose resources would work if the VAT was already part of it, and if it shouldn't be 100% of its task, but partly to cover those categories and what our prospects are to do in the final and final. Instead of me talking about all of this, normally I avoid even though I have never been able to be quite brief, I am trying to give these questions a little bit of initiative to those who wrote this, and also those who are dealing with this problem to at least in the next report to give us this data so that we have a complete and clear picture when it comes to this problem which is related to the effects of VAT implementation and part of its relying on social programs, part of the focus. I am particularly interested in how much these funds were allocated, because there is information different, that one large part of the funds promised from that source that he promised to be betrayed was not taken, but taken from someone else, and that the other part of the funds was found elsewhere or not by an adequate team. 68 From all of this, I can conclude that a large part of today's discussions is spinning in a particular case as a doubt that a complete report is in a certain way, or an unobstructed state, or an understatement, or not to say yet a harsh word of false state, which is why you see this dissatisfaction and I suggest that this Parliament today, with several of its conclusions, try to complete a picture of which the report has not given in its form as it has been offered to this Parliament. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24518	Thank you very much, Mr. Moranjkić. The word has Mr. Ćeman. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24519	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I don't know how the College imagined bringing an end to this session in view of
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24520	If you have any ideas, they're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24521	Given the very large number of proposals, assessments, attitudes, etc., but since I was at the beginning late for some justified reasons, and I caught some of the proposals that went in that direction that maybe all of this was expensive to give the applicant information to sort of look at it and then again to this Parliament with a view to what might be of which, since there are certainly many things that are mutually and dissent or disagree, which could therefore be acceptable as a solution, let it remain for this discussion to continue. I don't want to repeat the rest, I'm just going to show you one thing, and by agreeing to a lot of things, that I don't repeat in many of the grades here, I would point out, and here I am in the name of the club whose member we had official suggestions, conclusions, etc. In fact, there is one provision in the VAT Act that there are certain provisions in the Regulation on the application of that law which are detimulatively affecting exports, in fact they do not open up sufficient opportunities for exporters to take advantage of, in the ruthless conditions of the world market, the opportunities they themselves consider to be able to use without being hit by the sales tax. What's this about? And that's what I want to point out with the expectations that the Directorate for indirect taxation will, in fact, also proposer and all of us together, consider that at least that kind of business we don't interfere with if we can't help them in another way. In fact, one member is said to have not been realised, paid exports within 6 months, if I am not mistaken, then it will be considered that traffic is actually too short, that they have their calculations that say that in some cases, of course they will take care of it even within a year if they make a payment on the world market they have an economic interest in doing so. If businessmen have a calculation of this type, those who have it why this country would not allow it, why would it assume that what is not charged within 6 months is placed on the domestic market. In contrast, whether research has more competent people here on the subject, which can speak, say that some other countries that have wherever and where they have 69 economies that have wherever and where a more stable fiscal system whose companies are exporters are wherever and where more competitive on the foreign market have a more favourable status than this issue. I initiated by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board to amend the Regulation in that part. I haven't come across any support yet. I also want to point out that in the context of this debate. I will not, of course, enter a number of other aspects, because here is a lot of what has been said and I hope that here and Mr. Čaušević is there, and others who can really influence it in the right way, at least achieve that and I end up not interrupting the exporters if at least we can't help them effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24522	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović, and I still have Mrs. Ruža Sopta, Bešlagić, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, allow me to start several findings. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the last countries in Europe to introduce VAT. So all of the countries' experience is that the introduction of VAT ensures significant financial discipline, to ensure budget revenues. For our conditions here, we can add more building of a unique economic space. Actually, there's nothing new about it. That's what we knew and what we were looking for a year and a half ago for the introduction of VAT. Therefore, the use of VAT should not give any supernatural value or significance. Today, through this information, we tried to talk about the economic situation in the country through the option of introducing a VAT which, of course, has nothing to do with it. What does an increase in cell phone numbers have to do with the introduction of VAT? Or, what counterpart Novaković was talking about is an increase in exports. From hollow to blank, there has never been an incentive measure of VAT. So we did not have the opportunity in this House to discuss the country's economic policy, the many elements that must be harmonised and to talk about the economy of a country, except for the medium-term development strategy. We talk about it once a year. So, of course, I would like to remind us that when we have adopted the VAT Act that we have then come to the conclusion that after a certain time of VAT application, we will look at the effects of VAT application, but on two aspects of this opinion. This has had a negative impact on the most sensitive categories of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with 17% taxed at a single rate of all those provisions of life importance, including medicines and aids, etc. which was zero, which was real to assume that it would hit those layers of the population. And on the other hand, to check how much the real rate is estimated, the unique VAT rate. We didn't get an answer to those two questions today. Tomorrow we have a session of this same house of six bill proposals that are intruding at the amendment of the VAT law and that's the sixth time. And it's in continuity this year that we're trying to change. So what do we have from today having an excess income of 52% compared to the previous year as a consequence of VAT introduction? If we had a 22% rate, we'd have another 100% income. Who are the interests of these incomes now, this excess income? And in that surplus income, we have no idea how much the state is now obliged to pay back to small, i.e. companies that owe 70-based VAT. And yet we lure the right picture to say whether it can go 14 or 15% of the new rate. To whom it now contributes in the account that both businesses and citizens are burdened to have extra income that we do not know where we are going to put. Budgets have been passed and revenues are made beyond budgets. Has anyone made an account of how many companies that have now been forced to run off on unfavourable terms in banks at unfavourable interest. Here's what I thought we'd have information so we could just commit to a whole series of these to say the amendment and supplementation of the VAT law. I don't think we're going to make any more significant conclusions today, because, of course, we're going to make some kind of good conclusion, you know, we should do something about it here. And that's why I'm willing to accept the proposal of those who were saying that this should, if it could open the way for us to take a stand on the bill that goes towards changing VAT, then to answer these basic questions that we could then take into some kind of work. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24524	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. The word is Mrs. Ruža Sopta and Mr. Bešlagić. And I'm closing the debate, and I'm going to give Mr. Čaušević another word, he asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24525	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, listening to today's discussions and reading this information, we can draw some conclusions. First, when VAT was introduced, it was obvious that the production of initial data was from the bad ones, from the starting grounds that bad evaluations were made, and the colors were given bad, or misjudged. Anyway, when I was in college, the professor told us, either you underestimated or assessed the plan, you get a unit if the plan falls back 30%. I think it was 30% in those days. Today 5% if he stands down, and the results of the plan are wrong. Today, thanks to such starting bases, we have no less than 56 million funds from the economy, we have 52% of the surplus income compared to the comparative, previous year which we also don't know where we're going to be with them, and obviously we're found. Found because we obviously don't react quickly, because these assets should be returned, we sucked this out of the economy and no one can say that VAT affected the increase in employment, if we're the kind of economy that was in a poor position, and we're not going to say that they went to employee employment. I really wish we had one analysis. This is some kind of a collection of some data, but that analysis would certainly show that VAT has affected reduced employment. It's said to be an incentive to export. I'm interested in whether anyone was doing an analysis of how this way of introducing VAT affected other segments of the economy. What about the positive import? What about the economic operators that import the raw materials and import the equipment, and they could also allocate the funds for which they stayed somewhere in their account and were not returned to them? When it comes to higher rates, it has been said about the temporary introduction of more rates, so that today we may have one conclusion as stated in the material that the Czech Republic had 71 least impact on decomposition, on social decomposition when VAT was introduced, because it entered at a higher rate. And they were supposed to be of temporary character. About what's the reason, what we've been cited as a reason not to introduce more steps to the banal that can't be introduced into the program anymore, that the program is paid and that it can't be introduced more than 1 foot. That's the kind of explanation there was. Today, we were talking about introducing more rates only to the introduction of social programs, to the development of social programs. Then it confirmed that the social programs were there, that they were there, that they were in drawers and that all they had to do was put them in the light of the day. Unfortunately, I don't believe there are any, because I guess we'd have seen the light of day by today. When spoken here in the information of 19% increased funding for social programs. Which 19, which they came up with. How are they implemented? I watch next door my neighbors who have 200 marks of retirement and have one garden. They're sure to have a garbage shipment increased by one brand, I know they pay it just as much as I do. I'm sure I know that two to three marks have increased their electricity prices. And not to say how high the price is, not thanks to all the VAT, the price of a lot of oil that we've talked about in one space, the main source of energy. Not to mention, they're absolutely out of this program not even those three marks, or those 10 marks. What I am holding today, the most important, qualitative debate, is Mrs. Hadžiahmetović's debate. Someone in this program, at this reform moment, fell asleep on laurels just by passing the VAT bill. True, even noting that he did not enter into the essence of monitoring and predicting and rapid response to this VAT. He fell asleep on the laurels, we brought the VAT, and the reform stopped. And the most important and social one would be the reform to follow. If we were just our businessmen, apart from the pension fund reform, actually the contributions that are paid, if we had just done a little more, and there it seems to me that the Directorate for Immigrant Taxation through the tax administrations normally went into tax and contributions, so for the pension fund today would have certainly had bigger pensions, the health care would certainly have liked us in a better position and coyotes second. What we're guilty of, and surely the team in charge of making reform laws is the law on division. All the VAT and all its newspapers ended up at the state level. He's just created a disturbance and a low-level problem where this is exactly what's being implemented. We didn't do anything there, and we're also guilty, but I'm saying someone before us. I am particularly undermining Mrs. Professor's discussion. Hadžiahmetović when he talks about administrative reform. Since I came to this parliament, there has been a constant talk of a reduction in public spending, i.e. a reduction in the administration. She keeps growing all the time. Each, I compare it first when I get the budget and every time there's more, there's a larger number of employees, and we're constantly doing some reforms, reducing costs and stuff. For that reason, I think it's banalizing these conclusions proposed by Mr. Ćeman. These are the reforms. These are reform laws, and I suggest, to translate it into conclusions, to adopt here that we're going to transfer the funds here, I think it's extremely unserious. Finally, we had even one conclusion before we knew the effects of VAT we said and promised that if the effects of VAT were obtained, old foreign savings would find ways to re-route these funds. All in all, reforms have failed, we have not done much either as Parliament, executive power in particular, and the Directorate for indirect taxation as well. 72 In that sense, I think that we should be honest and admit it and instead of these conclusions and these improvisations that only cloud the situation that we are, that things have been done both on the social agenda and on this, that we confess the truth and get to work and these three months, how much more we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24526	Thank you. Was it a replica, Mr. Novaković? And you've already had, you've already debated, you've debated? Yes, it is. But, no, Mr. Bešlagić is before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24527	No, no, I want to, I just wanted one question before it was to address someone from the Council of Ministers. I just want one question to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24528	When it's over, Mr. Bešlagić, then you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24529	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will try to be very brief. After today's debate, I asked myself one question with the powers this Parliament has with the introduction of the VAT law and its application of whether this story was necessary at all? The question is, who's in charge here? Is the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Council of the Direct Taxation Board, or us as parliamentarians who once made a decision on two rates, so it was torn down because the letters came? And the letters are still coming. I don't want to paraphrase anything. You have two letters in which every proposal of this Parliament, or someone else is said – is not accepted. Therefore, our entire debate with initiatives, proposals, if this letter is respected, is not accepted. So, this whole story about how the reform worked, or how the reform failed reminds me of the one she said the surgery worked, the patient stayed alive, but she's on her way to die. I'm interested in why the Directorate for indirect taxation, why did the Council of Ministers, after all, not put forward proposals through this analysis, give no suggestions on how to redistribute that the funds are not located where they are, or used where they should be? Why didn't it give an hour's worth of proposals, I'd say the reform law that should have followed this? And another question, I think, is that I'm initiating the initiative that we try to change the view that for the changes in this, as well as any other law, someone else is responsible, but only this Parliament? So the question is to launch an initiative to get the powers back to Parliament, not to be in part, I would say the institutions we formed. Therefore, I think that this should be an initiative which could then absolutely say that Parliament is to blame for the lack of reform, and not like this, here's how many times we've tried to change something in a positive sense. It was very impromptu to me today, because almost everyone who spoke told me that two feet should be introduced. Here I think there's no reason to slap or punch anyone, but simply that conclusion that we had at the beginning that we're going to do an analysis, it's information, but we're here to analyze that in fact, if nothing else is 17% high, and that should change 73. But if we propose today, and if we propose something tomorrow, I ask myself whether this proposal, if it passes with 100% consent, will get the green light. I think if we don't change the law where we're going to be high, I'd tell the board of directors of indirect taxation to give consent, or they won't give consent, I think our business of story and debate is useless. That's why I'm starting this initiative, if we can change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24530	Thank you very much. We have one more question, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24531	Dear colleagues, I have one question that keeps going through today's debate, which is the notion of extra income. I'd like someone to explain to me what the extra income is? What extra are we talking about, gentlemen? The law made it perfectly clear that following the settlement of commitments to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, funds are being allocated to entities in percentage of this and that. What money are we talking about? What money on the Central Bank's accounts don't I know who? I ask you to explain to me how the notion of extra income in this entire system appeared? How did it occur to someone to share money with municipalities in the amounts they were last year? Whose construction is it that interests me? Well, these people, too, have formed some funds and some budgets with some thinking that based on your promise, incomes are going to rise, so their budgets are growing by 10, 15, 20, it doesn't matter how much now. And they all have budget failures while we have extra ones. So, I ask that I be made clear in this explanation and on the other hand to be told on what basis and on what grounds is this saving of money based on? If there's no basis in the law, I'll file a criminal charges against the person responsible. That's what I'm saying here completely responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24532	Thank you very much. I now give my word to Mr Kemal Čaušević. The debate is closed. Please, if you can get some reviews that can explain the question or comments of the MPs, then let's get to the conclusion and the statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24533	Thank you, Chairman. I answered the question because there is no Mr. Prime Minister Terzić, and also because I saw that some views are in my direction. Normally, I will give every comment and every question to answer in writing, but I appreciate that I should say it in oral form. I listened very carefully to all 15 MPs who answered for the discussion, and I must admit that most of the discussion has been very impromptu to me. I'll just answer a few questions or comments. It was no one's estimate that 20 thousand VAT bonds with traffic are more than 50,000 marks. Those were official data from the entity tax administrations. They have provided us with official data in printed and CD form that there are no 19,800 taxpayers with traffic of over 50,000 marks. With today's 74, we have 36,000 VAT taxpayers whose traffic is more than 50,000 marks. This is what Mr Avdić spoke of, and I will not really comment on what has happened in the tax and customs administrations of entities in the past 10 years. Was it some kind of gangrene because of very weak incomes. Mr. Novaković mentioned that we are not actually returning anything to the exporters because they never paid. Mr. Novaković won't be angry, the facts are a little different. The exact rate of sales tax on what they bought from raw materials and re-romitarians was zero, but the exporters paid a 10% sales tax on electricity, for example. According to official data, a billion and 20 million electricity was spent in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year. From that, Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy spent 600 million. That's what she paid 10% of her sales tax or 60 million. Although the nominal rate has now risen from 17% to 17% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy does not pay 102 million to 600 million, it is returning that 102 million because it is tax-price entry and has always been paid. It'll sound a little immodest, payed back in the '90s. the years when I was the director of the state firm and when I was exporting to the then Soviet Union. As for the question of the honourable representative Moranjkić, who apparently followed my discussion well when he remembers these 60 million, does not prevent the Administration from returning. Article 72 The VAT bill that you've passed says that the return will not take place this year. Last year, the Council of Ministers twice proposed amending Article 72, i.e. erasing. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. It was likely put in place during the period when VAT was thought to enter into force on 1 July 2005. Since the entry into force of the VAT Act has been extended, the Council of Ministers has twice submitted a proposal to delete the member. I'm afraid she didn't settle for it. As far as the questions of the esteemed representative Jovanović are concerned, whether the Administration has information on non-equitable enterprises, the answer can read like this. The management shall have information on all enterprises which do not pay VAT within the legal time limit and, in accordance with the Force Charge Act, make a forced payment. Individence does not worry so much, it is exclusively, i.e. in the largest number of cases of the inequitability of municipal enterprises. In fact, utility companies have very little to charge for invoiced goods and services to citizens, and they are obliged to pay VAT and perhaps utility companies could fall into certain visible liquidity. Normally, indifference is a much lighter phenomenon than insolvency, but in previous contacts with chambers of commerce at all levels of government we have no such knowledge. The more business is very commendable about VAT law. As far as the questions of the distinguished representative Gligorić are concerned, the income structure is given to you on these charts. I'll do it again. Four types of indirect taxes, customs duties, excise duties, tolls and VAT. Customs can't grow. The more they'll fall. It was 600 million, it's going to fall a little, because now we have with 9 countries in Southeast Europe the rate of zero customs, unlike the previous years when we had zero to 100%. Excises can't grow because they drink as much as they drink. You drink coffee as much as you drink, you drive cars as much as you drive. They're about 800 million. The sales tax was about 2 billion, last year. It's replaced by VAT and it's growing and it's going to grow. The exact data under which the source of the Direct Taxation Directorate writes, and I believe that all other data written by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Statistics Agency are correct. 75 Please vary, the growth in income of all indirect taxes is 32% for the first three months. So customs, excises, tolls and VAT. The growth of VAT and other sales taxes from previous years compared to sales tax for the first three months of last year was 52% for the first three months. For the first five months, 45.48%. It's in your materials. When does someone say where the sales tax comes from? So Croatia today, 8 years after the introduction of VAT, collects sales tax. It simply shows that someone did not pay sales taxes from previous years. As far as the software is concerned, it's not my place to comment. The EU donated 1260 computers, 500 laptops and a collective programme to us. How it happened, who they chose, I really don't have any knowledge of it, but the software is working without reproach. I'm taking the opportunity to thank Agent Felić, Professor. Lagumdžija the way, I referred the Fiscal Cash Act to the Board of Directors. You can also delegate it as representatives and I will be happy if fiscal cash registers are established in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what we do on the basis of Article 8. The law on the indirect taxation system can be proposed when problems are observed in the implementation of the law, or when it is seen that efficiency can be improved, we are obliged to propose the law. I did it. I would like to thank Mr. Sipović for his seven quality proposals, always there, Professor. Hadžiahmetović, there were a million listeners I've always learned a lot from her words today. Thank you to the distinguished representative Milićević, who has well-determined what is the work of the Management Board, what is the work of the Board of Directors, what is the Council of Ministers, what is Parliament. The Management Board and the Management Board are Parliament and the Council of Ministers. I see them as when Prime Minister Terzić sees you, when it's a session. I would like to thank Agent Ćeman, who mentioned the issue in the conclusion. The charge problem, if someone pulled it out and didn't charge it within six months, was regulated by Article 45. Regulation on the application of the VAT Act. Why did we set a six-month deadline? Because the entity's foreign exchange law is three months apart. And we could just give a double deadline. We can give a period of one year, if that payment is secured by a standard guarantee, a quality guarantee in international payment traffic. But watch out, I think a six-month deadline is enough, but I would still support your initiative on the board of directors to be a deadline of one year, while proposing to the entity assemblies to amend the Foreign Affairs Act in order for the legislator to be harmonised. I thank Mr. Križanović for his observation and what is being said today, but he will not be angry, I will apologize to him for the amount of tax credit there is. They're exact, so they're given to you on May 31st. It's got 59 million 843 thousand marks and something. It changes every day as we return the money the situation shrinks. As someone submits a VAT application in which a circled request for credit in field 80 increases. I'd like to thank the counsel of the Sopta who said this. I'm just gonna say what I said again. It would be true, the assessment would be one if it were a 5% mistake, but these are not estimates, they are the exact official data of the entity tax administrations and the Brcko District's income administration. The administration for indirect taxation from the point of view of income collection is the most successful administration in 192 countries of the world. It came to 2 billion and 800 million marks. You gave me a 3.5 billion mission. I hereby say, I promise you this year you'll have four billion, at least. 76 I thank Mr Bešlagić, who may have seen the problem very well, but it is also out of the administration. You have passed the Law on the indirect taxation system, which told members 19 and 29 that the Governing Board needs agreement. I'm not a lawyer, but by logic, I think that's how it should be since this is the exclusive constitutional jurisdiction of the entity. In 2003, the entities transferred the agreement and said – well be this administration for indirect taxation, but all decision-making by the Management Board, where the presidents of the entity are sitting. If that changes, of course I'll respect it as a legalist. Mr. Novaković looked into me when he mentioned the excess income. I honestly don't know what extra income means either. We can talk about achieving income compared to the execution last year. We can talk about making the income compared to the plan. I repeat, the plan that you adopted by the Budget Law and the Budget Implementation Act is 3 billion 502 million and 600,000 KM, and I repeat that plan will be achieved. Whether it's someone calling it extra income or some other term, I really don't know. As far as distribution is concerned, as you know under the Law on Payments in a single account and the distribution of income, the Administration first settles the costs of Bosnia and Herzegovina cca 2 billion and 202 thousand, each working day. Of the remains of which the users of the entiets and Brcko District are subject to an external debt, and the rest is all allocated to the users of the income. In translation, the state will certainly get its 2 million and 202 thousand each day, if it is, and will not be below 3 billion 502 million 600,000, entities will suffer the lack of income. And if there are over 3 billion 502 million 600,000, all the funds that are realised belong to entities and Brcko District in accordance with the allocation established by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board every month. I'd really be happier if it was a law spoken of by a respected professor. A Lagumdžija and a legally regulated substance, that is, to go by automation without depending on the decisions of the Management Board. I'm sorry if I forgot anything, but I think I wrote and I repeat in writing I'm going to answer all of this and possibly something that I forgot, which was mentioned in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24534	I thank Mr. Čaušević. Here's the ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, we've finished the debate. We heard the debates and discussions of a large number of MPs. We heard explanations from the director of the Directorate for indirect indirect taxation as well as from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think that, despite the fact that this was late for a time, I think that today's debate has been extremely good and each of the MPs has contributed to this very important matter being illuminated in the way that it really deserves it. We have the next situation. So we have two conclusions proposed by the relevant Commission on Finance and Budget and we have written form, i.e. we have two concrete proposals for conclusions. One was submitted by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and the other by Mr. Elmir Jahić on behalf of the Kluba SDA. There were more quality suggestions and suggestions, not in writing. 77 And now we have the opportunity either to declare ourselves individually now about each of these conclusions, or the closer I am, and here I think that, I feel so in the mood and in the College that this debate deserves therefore indeed and the proposals and assessments deserve that our Commission on Finance and Budget, based on this debate goes into further clarification of this conclusion 2. It is that it requires a precise report, not information, and on the trail of these proposals and suggestions that have given all the expensive instructions to both the Council and the Administration. I think it's the only one. I'm just thinking now, Mr. Lagumdžija. You're thinking with your hands up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24535	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I insist you plead my conclusion today. I don't mind if you reject it, shove it, as I am trying to reject this information with this conclusion, regardless of what I have to admit, it was probably my conclusion that he had much more support to address us at the end of the day, Mr. Terzić. But it's like this with the apaurin that we have to Mr. Čaušević, this one, so this is one of the more intelligent moves of the Prime Minister for letting the other one speak for him this time. And I would therefore still ask you to make your point on this proposal, because your proposal for a conclusion is actually nothing more than mine. Because by getting this, we're letting them get serious. They're not cutting us down, so now that you're giving them a new suggestion that they're making something into it's annual vacations, the elections, we're certainly not going to get a chance to see them anymore. So I'd suggest you just make a statement about this, and you can say yours, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24536	No, I don't. I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. Okay. We have the following situation, according to the verdict, means here a rope of the College and Secretary of the House the conclusion proposed by Mr Lagumdžija is more radical than what the Commission report is and we will first put it on the line, because of correctness, is it okay. So get ready, and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija suggested a simple dictionary to reject the information. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Now I've put on a statement your proposal, Mr. Lagumdžija. Yeah, yeah. Please prepare. Vote now. So Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal is general.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24537	No, it's not something regular here. There's no 2/3. He's got an entity. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24538	Well, no. There's a simple majority of 16, 9. No entity majority from the Federation. There's no argument. We can get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24539	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24540	Here you go. A Rules of Procedure, or just a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24541	Mr. Chairman, I therefore have my doubts about the results of this vote and I suggest that we make a formal statement here regarding this proposal for a conclusion. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24542	I'm asking the Secretary of the House to call and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24543	Can we? So we're voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Zlatko Lagumdžija. - Mirsad Ćeman - v, Just a little louder, please. - Šefik Džaferović – v, - Hazim Felić - v, - Izet Jahić - v, - Špirić Leho - is not there, - Nadžida Mlaćo - v, - Mirsad Sipović - is not there, - Ibrahim Milićević - v, - Tihomir Gligorić - Suljkanović, - Beriz Raguž - abstentioned, - Muhamed Altić - there is no, - Azra Dušanka Jovanović abstensive, - Elmir Sopta - for, - Kapetanović Đurković - not there, - Selim Marija - for, - Zlatko Petar - for, - Jozo Kunić Perkanović for, - Sead Avdić – is not for Mohamožan, Zaženžan – for Mohamožilić - for Muhamožilić - Nović - Mladen, Zamić - Senija - Zamić - Zamić - Zamić, Zamić - Zamić - Zamić - Zamić, Zamić, Zamić, Zamić - Zamić - Zamić - Zamić - Zamić - Zamić - Zak
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24544	I beg your patience that the Secretary of the House will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24545	We're going to the second round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24546	Shall we agree? So we don't have college consent. We should go to the second round of pleas. Only those who are against it now vote. I'm asking the MPs to make an electronic statement. That's it. Prepare to plead. Those who are against are pleading. Vote now. Here we go. So they don't have 2/3 against the Federation and the conclusion proposed by Mr Lagumdžija is accepted and thus we conclude this debate because the information that has been filed here has been rejected by this home. No information was denied. Please, the session is not closed. Please sit down, Mr. Džaferović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24547	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I'm going to say one sentence now and I'm going to put on a proposal, and the sentence is that these voting results, unfortunately, show that there is a stronger desire here to impose a pre-election campaign than a realistic view of things in such an important area as VAT. That's the line. And a second suggestion. I ask that the SDA's proposal for a conclusion be put to the vote, regardless of Parliament's position on the information itself. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24548	Please welcome Mr. Novaković and Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Just procedural interventions, please, business, I mean. No more discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24549	Well, you see, I got it when I asked the promoters what the extra income was, and I got the answer that there was no extra income. It means there's no concept of extra income. The proposals for Mr. Jahić's conclusion refer to the surplus of income, the way in which some extra income was shared, which Mr. Čaušević said did not exist. So I don't know what we're saying if there's no extra income, then how we're going to share it the way it's said here. And in the end, I take it as my right to ask myself if there are incomes over 30 days that are not allocated to any of the accounts of the Direct Taxation Authority? Is there any revenue over 30 days that isn't allocated? That's what I'm going to ask tomorrow if I don't get an answer, as a parliamentary question, since I've been told there's no income, and everyone's talking about some income, extra income.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24550	Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24551	Well, I'm the proposed conclusion that 1st and 2nd is not about the indirect taxation system at all, but about direct taxes. In part, I talked about it, and I think that if they were to turn into an initiative in the sense that reforms in the direct taxation system are going in this direction, then we could support, and this is the conclusion, for indirect taxation. Also, the conclusion of the 4th entity government that we are asking the entity governments, the Council of Ministers and the Governing Board to deposit extra funds into the State Return Fund, I don't know what this is all about. I don't think it would be bad if we left this behind for the start of maybe tomorrow's session, and then or eventually we get something in the form of initiative, something that doesn't apply to indirect taxes, and this remains perhaps with some explanation that might be acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24552	Mr. Špirić. It's just business interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24553	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Čaušević, however, I have one dilemma, since we have declared and rejected the information, so we have rejected the information, any kind of conclusion would bring us back to something that is not information. Give me some, then. It's logically observed. To the side that I can be to the conclusion, or not to be the conclusion. As long as my view of conclusions is all negative, because information has been rejected and let us once show strength as Parliament to have the Council of Ministers do something in line with our conclusion, and the conclusion is that we have rejected the information. Every 81 now concludes, some new conclusions on this matter speak more about us than about the Council of Ministers whose information we refused. And that's why I'm not ready, I don't know, so I have a business dilemma. If he has to vote, I'll vote against it, but I have a business dilemma. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24554	Gligorić, pa Avdić, please briefly, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24555	I'm joining what Prof. Špirić because it would be without purpose to go and vote further, because the information has experienced such a fate in Parliament and it no longer exists. The story's over. I beg Mr. Džaferović and the political law that's the case. Don't insist on political spite in this House. And don't guard this House's dignity. You're the one who wants to vote for something that's finished. And if that's not clear to anyone, ask now to do the research on, so people will tell you if something is finished, that it's rejected. Don't let some legal dribbles get us here to actually bring back what you want to impute to someone else, actually a political campaign in Parliament. We voted on the information. She's been denied. No more people, I don't know, empty board, it's over. And please don't make a circus out of this House. Please withdraw your motion to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24556	Thank you. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24557	I can't agree that it's empty all of it and that it's all in hawai, air. Today, we discussed the effects of introducing VAT in Bosnia and Herzegovina and received information that was not sufficient for Parliament to assess and return. He can do it again. He can do it again. But we haven't broken the law and we live under the VAT Act and we're considering its effect. Which means that it is legitimate and really people who propose this colleague Džaferović to vote on these conclusions of the SDA Parliament Club, without any intention of defending anyone. It's a legitimate proposal and no one has the right to challenge it. No Niko has the right to argue. Information can be rejected, but simply from the point of view of this agenda we will vote for a conclusion. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24558	Non-insect-insect
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24559	No, no, you let it go, it's clouding things, replacing thesis. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24560	So Belkić, Jahić, Andrić, you did ask for a word. The order was Andrić, Belkić, Jahić. Sopta wants you, did you ask for it? Okay, and, uh, Professor... Kunić, but please, everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24561	Thank you, Mr. President, but here's the thing. I'm trying to read these conclusions again, and this is more like the first session of the House of Representatives tomorrow, questions, initiatives and answers. This may be that the SDA Club is looking for a change of reforms in the PIU, MIU, in VAT, or profit tax and so on. But here's what you can see, these conclusions really have nothing to do with the election campaign, and I support that they put themselves to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24562	Thank you. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24563	I wanted to talk about procedural things. I agree with Mr. Avdić, regardless of fate information, regardless of fate information, these are initiatives, or conclusions that, if we support them, can live. If we don't support them, they won't live.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24564	Thank you. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24565	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24566	He gave up. Mrs. Sopta then Mr. Kunić, then Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24567	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask one question before we approach – will we vote on everything, or should we vote individually on the proposals? I mean, I'm willing to support some things, and some things I'm not. Even this first conclusion tells me about two initiatives. One first asks for a change to the Tax Act on pay contributions in the direction of reducing tax rates, and then the other one to provide the missing funds for PIO and insurance health with direct transfer of surplus funds. Let's just say I'm not ready to support this. So let's decide if we're going to do this, whether Mr. Jahić will separate this in two requests, with two conclusions, and then vote individually. I'm an advocate of individual voting, and I can't fully support these conclusions. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24568	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24569	There is no need for you, I have talked more times about legal order in Parliament. I won't point out now. Namely, what's the matter? Well the subject is, the subject is exploited, he's been consumed, he's gone. He doesn't exist. How can we vote on something that doesn't exist? Please, it's fiction. Fiction. But we will bring Parliament into this legal situation, and unfortunately, we have brought Parliament into such a similar legal situation, then it is absurd. How many rights is there in this House that anyone can speak will vote? Well, my desire often exceeds some, some of the conclusions that are made here. I'd change them very often. But I just can't. It's legal. It's technically legal. You can't vote. _______(?) Not twice about the same. It's not that, it's that. So the conclusions are something else, but the conclusions refer to this object that's been exploited. He's gone. He's more to us in the world. And you can't vote on something that doesn't exist. Please don't make a circus out of Parliament. So, don't realize this is a party, there's a party debate going on. You can tell it's party all the time. That can be hardened. But now, no more chances. He fell, information fell, and there is no more voting on it on any conclusion that follows, which refers to the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24571	Thank you. Mr. Živković and Mr. Sead Avdić still reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24572	The Honorable Chairman, since he has a dilemma about whether or not we should vote, although you are practically an interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we vote whether or not we vote on this. This would also give Parliament the same way that he decides not to vote individually on each conclusion afterwards, thus giving their opinion on it. Let Parliament know if this should be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24573	Mr. Sead Avdić, she was a replica, so Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24574	I'm asking you a part of the discussion is objectively without legal coverage. The information was only the cause of the agenda points. The consideration of the effects of VAT is today and there may be dozens of conclusions on this agenda. One of these conclusions cannot eliminate all other conclusions, even if it is to reject information as unquality, insufficient, incomplete, etc. etc. 84 So it can't exercise the right of any to suggest a certain set of conclusions on the agenda point, on the agenda point. So refusing information is absolutely not a sufficient reason for simple proposals not to be seen and not to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24575	Thank you. Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24576	Well, I'd like to rely on what Mr. Avdić says. Look, he's saying what we need to say now. So these conclusions refer to something that's dead. Well, it's as if the Tax and Contribution Act is dead, as if he's dead, I don't know Article 72. The VAT law. I mean, it really doesn't make any sense. The second thing is to declare that Parliament has concluded that we should make a statement on these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24577	No, we will not vote on your request delivered in writing for the debate and let the MPs say their views freely on everything. So prepare for a statement on the proposal for conclusions submitted by Mr Elmir Jahić on behalf of the SDA Club. You all got them in writing so I wouldn't read them. Stand by. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24578	When you sit here, you'll say what you can and can't. So you need to get here. You know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-05-24-0.u24579	The proposal for a conclusion was not accepted, has no general majority. Thank you very much. I'm closing the 80th session. Excuse me, we have another point. Please, before we move on to the appointment of a joint commission. Give me this paper, a reminder of where it is. I'd like some representatives for a little patience. There he is. Please, please, come on. So we have another point A.2. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. 85 The proposal was adopted in both homes and adopted in different texts. At home, he appointed members of the Joint Commission. Mr Tihomir Gligorić, Mr Filip Andrić and Mr Muhamed Moranjkić were proposed at an extended college from this home to the Joint Commission. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. There's a vote coming up. Please make your point on this proposal. Vote now Please members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to stay a second. With 25 votes for, one abstention and enough entity majority, we have established the composition in front of the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission Mr Tihomir Gligorić, Mr Filip Andrić, and Muhamed Moranjkić, and I am concluding the work of the 80th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
