ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6148	I welcome you and open the 60th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 12 delegates present at today's session, of which 4 are from the Bosniak people, 4 from Croatia and 4 from the Serb people. The delegates Jukić, Šiljegović and Neimarlija justified their absence. For today's 60th session, I propose the following updated agenda, 1st. Answering Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 59th session of the dom of narod, 3. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the General Law on Cooperatives, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. The request of the delegate, Boško Šiljegović, to consider the BiH Defence Law proposal following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. The request of delegate Halid Genjac to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the cornerstones of traffic on the roads of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of delegates Halid Genjac and Mustafa Pamuk to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on traffic safety on the roads to BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Police Officers of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Naorda, 9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on BiH Police Officers by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law of 29.05.2006, 10. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the BiH State Border Service, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 2 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH, first reading, 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH, First Reading, 14. Proposal for a law on classification of activities in BiH, first reading, 15. Information on work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2005, 16. The conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade Policy of the People's House on problems with milk exports to countries with which BiH has signed bilateral free trade agreements, 17. The conclusions and recommendations of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House on the public debate on the topic of discussing activities to promote economic growth, increase exports, reduce trade deficits and provide additional benefits for foreign investment in BiH, 18. Considering the resignations of Jasminka Putica, Blage Bošnjak and Dragica Miletić members of the Office to discuss complaints and learn about the information about the activities so far related to the beginning of the Office's work to consider complaints, 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2004, 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece on co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and arms and organised crime, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH Agreement with the Belgian-Luxemburg Economic Union on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments, 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of their countries and the protocol for the approval of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of their countries, 23. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, 24. Giving consent to the ratification of an addendum that amends and complements the Agreement between the High Representative for BiH and BiH on the establishment of the Office of the Register for War Crimes and the II Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Kyrvic and Appeals Department of the Court of BiH and the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for Organized Crime, Business Crime and Corruption of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Intellectual Property Treaty for the Integrated Car of Washington on 25 May of '89, 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Rotterdam Convention on the notification procedure for the transport of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade, 28. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 29. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 3.30. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH, first reading. I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Is anyone picking up? Any changes and additions? I find that there are no changes and additions and that the agenda has been adopted. It shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to the first point of today's agenda, that's Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answering the delegate questions for this session, we haven't received any answers. Any new delegate questions? So I'm saying we don't have any delegate questions. And we're going to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 59th session of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey the official position of the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers supports, therefore, the expropriation of Article 82 of the VAT Act and we have submitted amendments in the context of this earlier. However, the Council of Ministers also wants to inform you that the Council of Ministers is not able to support any amendments to the law that do not have full consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, which is in line with the Transfer of Jurisdiction Agreement on which indirect taxation has passed from entity to state level only and which has been verified or ratified by the State Parliament, including the House of Peoples. We've been in touch with Mr. Nikola. Mr. nikol expressed his desire to ensure the implementation of the so-called member, these intentions and article 82 either by amending the Regulation that exists under the Direct Taxation Board and Mr. Čaušević is the director here, and by giving consent to this law at the first next session of the Management Board, as he has writtenly informed you. Therefore, if we think there is a need to amend this law in this sense, but that we cannot therefore support what does not have the consent of the Management Board because we think that this could lead to a crisis, that the Constitutional Court, or another court, might, on the basis of a breach of the Transfer of Jurisdiction Agreement, possibly bring that amendment down, but we also appeal to this opportunity to the Management Board of indirect taxation to approve this amendment by adding that we have repeatedly asked to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6153	I thank my colleague Hurtić. So we have a motion now to vote on this procedure. If we vote for this under 100, that's how we go, if we vote against, we give the chance not to get to this conflict that Mr Hurtić spoke of. So in about 10 days, this comes back on the agenda, so we don't create collage, or we wouldn't have had actions that were contrary to the law. We're not pulling back, but we're now voting whoever wants to vote against, going to the regular procedure, yes. Mr. Čaušević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word. Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to elaborate the genealogy of Article 72 in the first place. Tax law on extra value. Somewhere two years ago, on occasion, I was appointed director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and then we started to do the VAT law, and at the advice of the IMF people, we established Article 72. In fact, there were 3 customs and 3 tax administrations at the time and there was a great risk if we did not put Article 72 in order to make certain... incomes in the first months of the application of the VAT Act. Fortunately, for the past two years, we've been doing very well. We've been helped by the Rural Service Agency, we've been activated on time and objectively now there's no need for that member anymore. 5 Two sessions twice on your desks, i.e. on the table of the House of Representatives, were removed from this member before the PDV Act appeared, i.e. before its entry into force on 1 January 2006. Unfortunately, the House of Representatives has not adopted the two initiatives of Prime Minister Terzić, or the Council of Ministers. As of August 10th of this year, we have been returning money to those involved in domestic traffic, according to the current legal solution. In this regard, we have prepared a regulation on amendments and additions to the VAT Act and it will be held at a session of the Management Board at a session from 19th to 23rd of this month. And this revision of the rules will, in many ways, eliminate all the negativity that is now objectively suffering from an economy that deals exclusively with domestic traffic. In fact, we have over 100 million marks in our reserve account, and the requirement to restore the domestic economy is about 60 to 70 million marks, depending on how much we are in control. So we really wouldn't be in the situation again if we didn't review the Management Board of indirect taxation, I ask you... that today this is not considered in accordance with the request of the House of Representatives, that is, by this urgent procedure, that we respect this agreement on the transfer of jurisdiction, because indeed entities are, despite the fact that the law remains state-owned, these key players who agree to the amendments to any legal solution. But indeed, Ministers Đombić and Mr Nikola also show that they support the intentions they have, and that at least we remain within the framework of the procedure, or that if the Management Board is to meet, or adopt this position with amendments and additions to the VAT Act, or simply to agree on constitutional Article 72. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6155	I'd like to thank the Director of Management. Mr. Genjac answered his word. You want a pay phone for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6156	From these letters, respected chairman and respected colleagues from these letters that we received from President Nikola and RS Finance Minister Đombič and Miodrag Kulić, a member of the Management Board, it can be concluded that everyone agrees that this issue is needed in order not to suffer the economy, especially domestic production that is export-oriented. It can also be seen that the message of the Governing Board is foreseen in this third week of July, as said by the minister's letter, as the experience of Republika Srpska's Finance Minister has been said, at least there is no reason against eradicating Article 72, except for the reason of principled nature. If the procedure had not been followed, that no consent had been reached, that's quite all right, because the law prescribed it. If that were the case from these, from the nature of these letters it is expected that the agreement is reached and now it's actually a whole game of time, that as soon as possible to solve this issue in such a way as to help the economy. I think that given everything in mind, having the next dynamics and events and August of the month etc. I think it would be good if we adopted this by article 99. in a brief procedure. It's just enough time to adopt it, and wait for the board's meeting to have an attitude and to carry out all the scheduled procedures. 6 My proposal, therefore, is that this law is being adopted and that we should make this proposal known today so that this law is adopted in accordance with the procedure in accordance with Article 99. by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6157	Is anyone else picking up? In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the request of the House of Representatives to be discussed under Article 100 after the hearing. The amendments can't be submitted. This is Article 100(3). We have actually had these conversions of distinguished guests and distinguished delegates, and we are practically coming to say now about the proposal of the House of Representatives that, in accordance with Article 100(2), we will decide whether or not we will go according to Article 100. So I'm putting it to a vote. Yeah, yeah, who's in? I'm sorry. Who's in? Who's being held back? Against? Unanimity. So, I'd like to add more here that we really expect the Directorate of indirect taxation to do this as soon as possible. [[Common discussion]] So this could be a little bit more serious. I couldn't agree more. So this is what we refused to consider by Article 100. I will now put to the vote the motion by the delegate Halid Genjac that this, this amendment, or the law, be considered in accordance with Article 99 of the shortened procedure. No, it was in 100. Yeah, but he's automatically going to regular, and now we have Halid Genjac's proposal to go on short 99. Who's in? Against? Abstained? - So I figure it goes for 99. I apologize again. So we absorbed this point 3. Moving to point four, Add.4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the General Law on Cooperatives, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6161	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6162	Well, we'll see. The vote will show. Okay. So we're voting on procedure. Please vote therefore on a brief procedure, Article 99. Who's in order to get this law to go according to Article 99? Who's against it? uzdržati? - 1 So I realize that this procedure has been adopted as an emergency under Article 99. 8 May I have your colleagues' attention, please? So point six is Ad.6. The request of delegate Halid Genjac to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the cornerstones of traffic on the roads of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples A debate is being held whether the law will be laid down in a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Please let us vote. Who's in? As far as I can see unanimously, so there's no one against, no one restrained. The requirement, therefore, that the law be considered in a reduced manner was adopted. The seventh item of the agenda Ad.7. The request of delegates Halid Genjac and Mustafa Pamuk to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on traffic safety on the roads to BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6173	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I don't know if there is, first of all, to ask if there is anyone outside the D.A. who might be able to answer some of the questions in this information. No one's here?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6174	There's a lady down at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6175	All right. Of course, I read this information, and I'd just look back on page 4 and page 5 of this information, and I'd end up asking two questions right now. Here on page 4 below point 3. – the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2005 on cases and point 3.1 of work on KP cases, and the position of Part 2 says - of the total number of cases in the work on criminal offences of economic crime is 34%, or 310 cases. Crimes of war crimes 19%, or 176 cases, and crimes of general crime 46% or 417 cases. I will zadržati in this second position – the crimes of the war crimes 19%, or 176 cases, and in connection with the sodom also on paragraph 5. 2. stands – after the investigations were carried out, the prosecution brought 212 cases of charges against 314 persons in 2005 and for the acts of economic crime 31% or 65 cases against 122 persons committed by the general crime 55% or 138 cases, 174 persons and crimes of war crimes in 8 cases against 18 people. I'm going to stick around for a while again for the last act of a war crime in eight cases against 18 people. Information as information, I think it should have been a little more specific. On it, I don't know if this is about a special secret, if it's a secret that there's no more concrete data on war crimes. And I think that we all here should know who the charges were brought against, confirmed or filed, and who the war criminals are being prosecuted against. This taboo topic needs to be removed, and especially to be removed from this assembly, or we parliamentarians need to know what it is. I would only ask two questions in the context of it. In 2004, the district public prosecutor's office in Bijeljina filed criminal charges against 49 people on collected evidence of 13 war crimes committed in the Srebrenica, Bratunca, Milic, period from 1992 to 1993. So against 49 people in 2004. On behalf of that period, I have official data that 134 Serbian villages in the area have been partially, or completely destroyed, destroyed and robbed. About 1200 people were killed, including a significant number of women, children, and elderly ones. In the name of the family, they count you, and 880 people are wanted because they're missing. On behalf of some 3,000 families seeking, demanding, asking for this case to be enlightened – did the Prosecutor's Office at the request of the Bijeljina Public Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina do anything about it? Where are those applications? Why hasn't anyone been charged with this matter so far and will anyone be charged with these crimes? The district public prosecutor's office in Bijeljina also held the blame in 2004 for the war crimes in Tuzla committed on 15 May 1992 when around 240 soldiers who agreed to withdraw from Tuzla to Yugoslavia were killed. To date, about 110 people have been exhumed and identified, and 130 are still being searched and reported missing. Also on behalf of about 400 families I have been in contact with every day – has the prosecution also taken any action, where the case is located, and when will anything on this matter be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6176	Thank you. Of course we'll give the D.A.'s lady a chance. Ma'am, please come out for a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6177	Good afternoon, firstly to welcome the esteemed delegates of the House of Nations. I am Erna Filipović, General Secretary of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First, to apologize on behalf of Chief Prosecutor Jurčević, who is officially absent from Sarajevo, and he expressed his wish if delegates wish he could come to the next session of the House of Peoples. By the way, he attended a meeting of the House of Representatives meeting a month ago. If the delegates want to, he's expressed a real wish, but he's gone. Regarding the information of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the previous year and specifically asked questions of the gentleman, I didn't really hear the name, I apologize, since this is about issues, about specific cases and applications at this point I can't answer, because I don't have the registers, and I don't have the prosecution's record in front of me. But for the next session of the House of Peoples will be delivered. I don't know now by your procedure if it can be taken as a parliamentary question so that we can answer in writing about the cases of the district attorney's office from Bijeljina and the district attorney's office from Tuzla. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6178	You got it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6179	I mean, I'm real, but. What? I think since these are specific items, this is information about the work of the Bosna and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for the previous year, and the gentleman has set up two specific cases. Information does not process specific objects as you have seen. If you feel it is necessary to provide you with the names of the persons charged with war crimes, we will deliver it if in this response that will be delivered by the Prosecutor's Office for the next session. The information was made according to one methodology that we normally do not mention specific objects in the persons charged with being dropped and so on. However, if you feel you need us to deliver that information. Please. Here, I can stay, if you have any more questions for this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6180	Are there any other questions regarding this information about the tužiilaštvo's work? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6182	Please let us vote whether or not we accept Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2005. Please vote. Who's in? Who's being held back? - 1 against? - 1 Please make this known in the record, means 1 abstention, 1 v, others for. Thank you. 16th Point of the Ad.16 agenda. Commission Conclusions on Foreign Trade Policy of the People's House on Milk Export Problems in Countries With which BiH has signed bilateral free trade agreements You have reached the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Foreign Trade Policy of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, President of the Commission. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6184	I thank the chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and others, for the importance of this topic we held at the previous sessions, at the last session of the Commission included this issue and had the presence of representatives of dairy workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are exporters. Namely, the occasion was very simple. Our exporters experienced major problems with milk exports, primarily in the Republic of Croatia, and also Macedonia and Serbia on a slightly smaller scale. After the discussion was carried out by the Commission, we proposed conclusions and I would like it to be because of the importance of the topic and because of the fact that in the Croatian media and in the Croatian public, a great importance has been given to this issue, i.e. even through the media, the exporters of milk, or milk processors from Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Croatia, tried to dictate. I think it's important that you hear these conclusions and I expect you to support these conclusions. He's the first. It is proposed to the House of People to ask the BiH Council of Ministers and Entity Governments to support domestic dairy workers and especially dairy exporters. Two. The BiH Council of Ministers is asked to address the issue of milk and milk export barriers in the Republic of Croatia, Macedonia and Serbia through mixed committees to monitor the implementation of bilateral free trade agreements. Three. The BiH Council of Ministers is asked to take the necessary measures regularly to control products imported into Bosnia and Herzegovina and other measures in the area of control of the transport of dairy products originating outside Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina. It is requested from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to organise meetings at least once every two months in the presence of representatives of milk processors of entity governments, the Office for Veterinary and elsewhere to monitor issues in the field of the processing, transport and export of milk and milk products in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I expect full support from my colleagues for these conclusions and also call on the Council of Ministers to respond as quickly as possible tomorrow. Otherwise, none of the problems that happen when problems like this happen, our BH exporters suffer daily, and unfortunately we, as institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, react much slower than the consequences on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6185	I thank my colleague, Čengić. So the debate is open. Are there any reported debaters? There isn't. We're closing the debate. Please vote on the conclusion of our commission. Who's in? Unanimity adopted conclusions. Congratulations to the promoter. 17th item of the agenda 16 Ad.17. The conclusions and recommendations of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House on Public Discussion on the topic of addressing activities to boost economic growth, increase exports, reduce trade deficits and provide additional benefits for foreign investment in BiH You have reached the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of Peoples. I give my word again to the President of the Commission, Mr Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6187	So, I'm glad we finally get a chance to talk about this today even though we had a public debate four months ago. What's most important is that we had a very large material, and what you see here is only part of that material that we had in the public debate that was created during the public debate, summed up in 5.5 pages of conclusions and suggestions of activity. I won't, I have no intention of repeating any of this, only I would read the final conclusion, and he's tied to the Council of Ministers. It's like this. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is asked to work with other institutions in the country, based on these conclusions and materials that form part of these conclusions, within 30 days draw up an action plan for the implementation of conclusions and recommendations. All conclusions should be realised by the end of this year. The Action Plan shall be submitted to the People's House and the Commission. Unfortunately, this material should be considered at last session of the House. As he wasn't, this now turns out to be a vacation, but I hope the Council of Ministers had already, most of the material because it only participated in the preparation of information and I expect these conclusions, especially this last one, to be realized. Since the conclusions contain very important activities in different areas, both at BiH level and in the Outer Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Exports of production and attraction (?) foreign investment, we think that this material is very important and we expect the House to support these conclusions, but more importantly, the Council of Ministers then at the level of the Council of Ministers and at the level of its ministries, agencies and others really react with the preparation of an action plan that will be implemented in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6188	I thank Mr. Čengić. You have a word, if anyone wants to. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a vote. So who's to adopt these conclusions on the 17th point of the line? Unanimity. I find they've been adopted... by the promoter. 18th agenda, 17th Ad.18. Discussing the resignations of Jasminka Putica, Blage Bošnjak and Dragica Miletić who are members of the Office for Discussing Appeals and getting to know information about the activities so far in veuamo, to begin the work of the Office to discuss complaints You have received a letter from Jasminka Putica, Blage Bošnjak and Dragica Miletić from the Office to discuss complaints about the resolution of duties as well as information about the activities so far related to the start of the Office's work to discuss complaints. The House of Representatives adopted the resignations of Jasmina Putica, Blage Bošnjak and Dragica Miletić. Anyone want to discuss it? I'm closing the debate. Please vote, so who's to adopt the resignations of these three people? You can vote. We unanimously adopted the resignations of Jasmina Putica, Blage Bošnjak and Dragica Miletić, on the functions of members of the office to consider wishes. Point 19 of the agenda, Ad.19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2004
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6200	Dear colleagues, given the fact that so far we have no laws on medicines and medical means at BiH level, so this would be the first time, in case we get the law. It is very important and very serious but at the same time, as we now have the current two entity laws, so every entity has its own law, and the institutions that follow its application, it is a matter of likely that this law would be and cause great attention and interest and what I know, because of the contacts I already had, from those of the wholesalers, the drug manufacturers to the others involved, it will probably be necessary to organise a public debate. In that sense, it would probably be more useful, in order to get the quality text of the law that we certainly need, that instead of in a shortened procedure, we are considering this law in a regular procedure. And my proposal, Mr. Chairman, is therefore to suggest that we consider it in a regular procedure. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6201	I thank my colleague, Čengić. So first we have this proposal in the short procedure, so we'll go by it if, we have to because that's how it's arranged on the agenda and then. Right, this is where it's proposed. Mr. Čengić suggests going to regular. The proposal is for us to go on short notice. We have to vote on it, that's what's on the agenda. Right? Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6202	Thank you very much for your word. I've got each other thinking about this. I'm going to say very meekly why. So, I respect this proposal Mr. Čengić said. And probably we, along with this proposal of his, perhaps after public debates carried out... from the public's interest, would have come to a more quality law. Since this is a very important law in my court for this country and because of a very big mess in this area and at the level of the state, we have to, n... a regulation that has asmatic, different solutions in both entities, and there is, therefore, a very profitable, very interesting mechanical market in the troubles of the citizens of this country. Therefore, as soon as possible, it would be for a law at the state level that would oblige lower levels to agree, so that at least unified, we would agree to some of these standards in this area, so that, then, to do so in this conference still, as the initiative started, I don't know what kind of thinking will be, I believe the noble and new composition of Parliament, but that this old synergy now, in a shortened procedure, adopts such a law as has now come from the Council of Ministers, so let the new synergy be dealt with, so by improving that text, by public debates, etc. That we have something that all the good, noble, human, well-intentioned people in this country are waiting for, which is to regulate the drug market in BiH by state regulation. So, I'd like to ask if it's in any way possible for this shortened procedure to remain, to reach this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6203	I thank my colleague Filipović. Mr. Vinko Radovanović, and it's not you, I'm sorry. Then go ahead, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6204	I am Damir Dizdarević, assistant minister of civil affairs and in front of the legislator of this law. You've already known that for 3-4 years we've been working on this law and that there are really shared opinions about it. There are probably lobbys, like importers, manufacturers, etc. But I'd like to make a turn for you, why, some of the reasons why we suggest this goes by, why we've decided to go by a shortened procedure. The first reason was that 20 days ago we had a rtm based monitoring of the European Commission and in achieving a single economic market or space in BiH was a concrete requirement of their own regarding the adoption of this law. We informed them about which 22 procedures were already in place and that was exactly somewhere between when the Council of Ministers accepted this proposal until here are these sessions now. The other thing, you know, is that even anarchy about drug governments, that they have to... that they can't function and that one drug goes if they get approval in one entity to go to another. Then there is the harmonisation, so just before I said with European standards and I really think that given that and especially given the special law that you have already passed, which is the Law on the Prevention, Prevention and Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, which is with jurisdiction, what you need to do has been transferred to the Ministry of Civil Affairs by the Agency. For such a function to be performed by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH provided for by this law, the agency should and should be established, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, is indeed brought into an enviable situation, because it is practically necessary to receive an army of people, to reorganise these ministries in order to make it work. For these reasons, we stand behind the fact that this law should be passed by a shortened procedure, and probably during a time like nothing has been given to Bogo, so this law, that it goes to one such, that eventually it can, in time, show its shortcomings, make changes, supplement as we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6205	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6206	Respecting everything that has been said, especially by counterpart Filipović, I will begin with this last sentence said by a representative of the Council of Ministers. That's the essence of the whole story. So he insists on adopting a law that the gentleman already knows in advance will need to be repaired. And I think it's already too much of a luxury for us to go through with the adoption of laws that aren't right, so let's fix them after we adopt them. That's exactly why I'm talking. When I talk about this, I said very clearly. So, having information from institutions, from major drugstores, from those people who deal with this issue, keeping in mind the importance of this law, by sharing a full assessment that this is important, and precisely because it is important, I think we need to come into a position that we have the opportunity to hear all the important factors in lawmaking that have not even had the opportunity to read the law and let alone participate in its preparation. So to be very clear to my colleague Filipović, the law has prepared a small number of people. Some of them are law experts, some of them for something else, and some of them aren't for any of the drugs. But they were making the law. Yeah, yeah. Now we have to offer the law, we need to discuss the law, let none of us get angry, mostly we're not experts in this area, and I think it would be very important that we have, that we come to an opportunity to hear people on both sides. Under quotes, those from the market point of view, those from the point of view of production, those from the point of view of control, etc. to come to that position so that we can have the opportunity to get their attitudes out and fix the law. 23 And to conclude, it's not a market mess because of the law. It's not. It's a market mess because of a lack of respect for the law. So that's number one. Number two, we must not be in a position to open up a mess now by adopting a new law, or by increasing what we call disorganization in this area. For all these reasons, I find it very important to get this law and to start working on it. In particular, it is a question of fellow Filipović, why the Council of Ministers waited so many years for this to be proposed and to take place in the procedure in July, so 2 months before the election, although... that the drug law was needed long ago, it has been working for 4 years. Therefore, there were many roads and mechanisms including OHR, which also finally remembered that there was a issue of medicines and until today this same OHR had not asked the question of the agricultural law. That's embarrassing. So the OHR needs to be shut down without asking the issue of the BiH agricultural law, now at the last minute you are calling the drug law that we need, but we need to get it once, under quotes, in the normal atmosphere, so in the atmosphere where we will hear experts and those concerned from all sides, so we don't get in a position to have unresolved or open-ended birds after we pass the law. There, that's the only reason. So by supporting its importance and need for adoption, I'm just suggesting that it go into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-07-0.u6207	I thank my colleague, Čengić. So we will go according to the proposal that this is on the agenda, that we will vote in accordance with Article 99. You can't hear a thing like that. But there's also room here for what Mr. Čengić was talking about, just in a little bit of short time, so it can act like an amendment. So, I am putting on the vote of the BiH Council of Ministers' request to discuss the proposal for a bill on medicines and medical means for BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please vote. Who's in? Against? Abstained? Niko. So most votes passed this law. 29th Point of today's agenda, pre-lated, 24th Ad.29. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
