ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21472	I ask the MPs to sit in their seats, I apologize for this delay, our one important committee has just had a session and we are waiting for other colleagues. Here we have a quorum we can start working. I am opening the 72nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I apologize for the unnecessary delay and draw attention to the committees responsible for adapting their work so that the plenary session will not be late because all MPs, I remind in a permanent working relationship with the Parliamentary Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as representatives of the public information funds accompanying today's session. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests and representatives of international organisations who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this house and in all those present today I warmly welcome. As you know before we move on to a debate on the agenda proposal, I suggest we finish one previous question. Namely, as you know in the last session, we have reached a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of the late Dr. Abdulah Nakaš and Mrs. Seada Palavrić. By letter of 28 December 2005, from the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I was informed that the mandate of MPs was given to the following... candidates from the SDA party list, which is Mr Mehmed Žilić and Mirsad Sipović. I have invited new MPs to this session, and in this sense I call on them to give a solemn statement and thereby assume the rights and obligations of MPs in this high house.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21474	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21475	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21476	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21477	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21478	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21479	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21480	Respect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests of equality between all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21481	Respect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests of equality between all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21482	Congratulations to the new MPs on taking office as MPs and I want a lot of success in the work. Gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, please place your registration cards in your computer so we can monitor if we have a quorum. According to the service report, I find that the session is attended by 28 MPs, 18 from the Federation, 10 from the RS. A number of MPs came in right now. So we have a quorum for full and full decision-making. I would like to inform you that the justice from this session has been announced by Mrs Jelina Đurković for medical reasons. We haven't had any other announcements, so I expect that colleagues who are not present will join in the course of this session. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. As has become a practice for us in the meantime, there have been conditions for the inclusion of certain materials in the agenda, and now, at a session of the extended college held this morning before this session, we agreed that the agenda should be complemented by the following points. 3 - The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, then - Request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, then - Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of the old foreign savings under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure and - Request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Law on Change, on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in adjudicating assistance to persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that item 14 of the previous agenda has been removed, which is – the Joint Commission report on the achievement of an agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act. Namely, the Joint Commission has not finished the work on the alignment, so for these reasons this point has been removed from the agenda. I assume that the alignment will be very soon completed and that we will have this point at the next, next session that has already been scheduled for January 30th of this year. At the Enlarged College, we agreed that we do not have a point today – MP questions and answers for the reason that we have a large and meaningful agenda and in this sense I am grateful to all members of the Extended College who have agreed on this agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that I have received a letter from the SDP Club and a request from Dr. Selima, pardon Sead Avdić for proposing today a new agenda point in which the Council of Ministers' position was discussed against the conclusion of this home on a proposal from the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum in the case of decertified police officers who are here today announced a strike before the joint institutions and institutions of the international community. We agreed on behalf of the Joint College not to open political debates today to send a joint letter to the Council of Ministers to inform us at the next session under the first item of the agenda what was done about the position of decertified police officers. So please and I have asked my colleagues not to extend our agenda today, and here I am asking you to, and if I cannot, of course, appeal to you to accept this agenda by adding it to its size and content without any additional changes. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21483	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have agreed on a agenda at the extended college. I respect that, but I still have to in some form today raise the issue of a number of parties talking about the fate of this country behind closed doors. 4 I wonder, I ask Parliament and all others and our public who today only has the privilege of setting that fate past the institutions of this country and beyond other parliamentary parties? I ask that someone answer this question to me, or that a debate is being held in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21484	Thank you. I think that was more of a question for MPs, but here's a colleague of mine. Potočnik Mladen and Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21485	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking a fundamental question - what is this Parliament and who is represented by this Parliament? Because if such conversations are being held, I understand and welcome the assistance of the US government and the international community. However, that talks are being conducted beyond where this is happening in a democratic way is not right. I'm not asking anyone a question, because I have an answer for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21486	Thank you. But I ask you nicely, nothing will be completed so definitely the form of all the negotiations and talks will give this Parliament, but I do, at least I know the intention is to come up with some initial material that will come into Parliament and it is almost certain, we all know it, the public knows that it is impossible to do without the state parliament and I would not like to politicise this, but simply to express hope that there will be good proposals in order to simply, which are in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is almost certain that it is an inevitable position and dopurinos which and this House of State Parliament will have to give when constitutional changes are at stake. A colleague of Križanović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21487	I fully agree with the reasoning given by the chairman on the proposal, namely from our request by my colleague Lagumdžija regarding the de-certified police officers. Whether I wasn't paying good attention, but it was the conclusion at the Expansive College that this House should reach a conclusion that we are obliged to discuss the situation at the next House session scheduled for 30, based on the quality information of the Council of Ministers. I think that's missing from your explanation for this problem of de-certified police officers. So I'd like to ask, if we can at least affirm the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21488	I don't know if we understood well, so the conclusion of the Expansive College was to address the General College of the Council of Ministers to submit complete information for the next session under the first item of the agenda, as opposed to the conclusions adopted by this parliament when it comes to de-certified police officers. So maybe we didn't get along, but that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21489	I didn't hear that, so I wanted to find out. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21490	Yeah, yeah. It is therefore faithfully conveyed what we have agreed. Dr. Crescent. Avdić, and counterpart Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21491	Gentlemen and honored guests, I just want to extend where my colleague Križanović stopped. So not only do I provide you with information, but this house requires that by the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, or the Parliament of BiH, or the House of Representatives of the Council of Ministers, we do everything on our part and fill the conclusion of this home and that in this context we try to relax the situation and simply protest the citizens that is happening in front of the OHR, and it is really not an honor for this country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21492	Thank you. I think that's what this is all about. We understand each other. Okay. My colleague, Beriz Belkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21493	Here I have answered to comment very briefly, understanding fully what Mr. Moranjkić and Mr. Potočnik are talking about, but as part of the political structure that participates in these talks I want to say 2-3 sentences. So there is absolutely no intention of ignoring or estimating, let alone bypassing this institution and this parliament, nor are negotiations, talks to say so illegal. I just want to remind you that we are on several occasions, here and now we have this case tried to open a debate and procedure here in this home. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. It is legitimate that all organisations, institutions, individuals with the will, strength and desire open the initiative. You've had cases of several NGOs, associations, etc., political parties, and it's all good. So, I just want to convince Mr. Moranjkić and Mr. Potočnik that these talks, neither my political party involved has any intention of bypassing this home nor any intention of doing anything other than this home. After all, it's impossible to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21494	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić, and his colleague Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21495	I thank the chairman. Namely, this is not an answer to Mr. Moranjkić's question. The question arises who has the exclusive right to discuss changes to the BiH Constitution? Do the party leaders have that without consulting their parties or not consulting the citizens? The fundamental question asked by Moranjkić is that this parliament and citizens are informed of the commission's work, the quasi commission's work, as we'll call it, I don't know what to call this one of Hayes's private groups. 6 Therefore, for me it is essential, I think, for others, that this Parliament and other institutions and NGOs and citizens inform what is happening in this mysterious body that works incognito. It has to be admitted, we have statements that confuse the public. Everyone gives their statements in their own way and we don't really know what that group of leaders or leaders are doing. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21496	Thank you. A colleague of Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21497	I thank Mr. Belkić for his response. However, I would continue where Mr. Kunić stopped, which is either we were misinformed in part of the misinformation, and I will no longer say that through electronic or other kind of media that there is some sort of bar of initial material hidden from the public, and not to mention what kind of statements are in these materials. I mean, this public is asking to be aware of it, and I'm asking that it be changed to get into colossals that are normal when it comes to constitutional changes, especially when it comes to constitutional changes, and not to say others who are following them all. We've had enough of Dejton, and we've had enough of the final acts, and then we've had enough hooks for what the public gets served, etc. etc. I also want to say that if you are also witnessing that the public is appalled by certain statements that are lame and every time they appear on television they are in a certain way, either different or rounded up by some secrets. The citizens are asking for it to be revealed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21498	Thank you. My colleague Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21499	...the chairman, fellow MPs, I would ask the chairman just to explain which agenda points we are at.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21500	The adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21501	I mean, we have to define. We've opened the debate, we have to define the point. I'm asking you to hold a session in that sense. So if someone wants to put a dot on the agenda, we ask them to define the point's name, and then we decide whether or not we're going to put it on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21502	I thank my colleague Novaković. You're right, I can't take anyone's word for it. It is the right of the MPs to ask even though we are, this is more to me than matter is serious, the parliamentary issues we have agreed today not to be, and what I can say is that 7 Parliament will in no way be bypassed or possible, and if someone wants to be so that it might not be today, and not slow for people to ask what they are interested in. Is there anyone else to report for the agenda, to discuss the agenda? There's no one here. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on the agenda and I want a stenogram here to say that we have adopted the following Agenda: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 71st session, 2nd. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the draft Law amending the Law on Postages of BiH (proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković), 3. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an Agreement on the amendment of the MEPs to the ruža for a Sopta on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the amendment of MP Filip Andrić to the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, 5. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an Agreement on Amendments and MPs Tihomir Gligorić on the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act for Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. Proposal for a budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 (first reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 (first reading), 8 / 8 The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 10. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 11. The request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 12. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 13. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in the provision of assistance and persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 8 14. Report from the BiH Financial Audit Office for 2004: (a) BiH State Service Agency, (b) BiH Agency for Labour and Employment for 2004, (c) BiH Statistics Agency, (e) BiH Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, (f) BiH Civil Aviation Directorates, (g) Directorates for European Integration of BiH, (h) Directorates for the Implementation of the CIPS Project, (i) State Investigation and Protection Agency, (j) State Border Service BiH, 15. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's security situation for the first six months of 2005, 16. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (addition of common provisions), 17. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes, 18. Report by the Research Commission on the determination of the degree of radiation of the impoverished uranium and the impact on the health of citizens in BiH, 19. Appointment of three members in the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text: (a) the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, (b) the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, (c) the Law on the Protection of Consumers of BiH, 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the Security Procedures for the Exchange of Trusted Information, (c) Double Citizenship Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Sweden, (e) Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and 21. Activity Report Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Intelligence Agency for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2004 (confidential material). We're moving ladies and gentlemen to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 71st session The minutes were delivered to you by fax on January 12th. I'm opening a debate. Do you have any objections to the record you received? Here you go, pal Moranjkić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21503	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman on page 5 of my parliamentary question, or a printing error, or I don't know what the words “determined” were replaced, and it should stand “handling” because the meaning of the asked question is quite another direction, if those two words are replaced, and in this particular case they have been replaced. I suggest we make it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21504	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude the debate and suggest that we adopt the minutes with this suggestion of fellow Moranjkić of the Parliament, because he is angry about his parliamentary question. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. Vote now, I'm sorry. Okay, okay. A small mistake, technically. We'll get there. - I find that with 34 votes for, no one against, no one abstention has adopted the minutes of the 71st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we move on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the draft Law amending the Law on Postages of BiH (Proposer of Parliament Milorad Živković) On the 71st session of the draft law proposed by Dr. Milorad Živković did not get the entity majority. A co-ordination was carried out in the College as a commission. You got the report. So you saw that the College failed to achieve consent. We vote, so usually. Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21505	We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21506	About the bill's proposal in the second reading. Yeah. You want us to repeat the vote. Please, just a little patience, there's a vote on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please. Vote. Business intervention. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21507	As I recall, here let the House correct me, the Honorable Chairman, we voted for another reading last time. But there was no entity majority, and there was no College in full composition, so you couldn't agree. And you went to the alignment. We now vote against the vote. So only those who are against the law vote and the whole procedure is over. Because we've already voted for this second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21508	You'll get an interpretation of the business. It doesn't matter. So we're voting in the second round, which is 2/3, so it doesn't matter when you vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21509	There's no need. It's enough to vote only against who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21510	Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21511	Can I just have a little intervention? I'm sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21512	No, no, you go ahead. YouSaćete get an interpretation and there's no reason to be anything other than the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21513	What Mr. Živković says, the result will be that, but I have to warn you, I've done it a few times already, we're going to go to the second round of voting according to the proposal of the law that was in 105, the request has passed, we voted in the first round, we didn't get an entity majority. We're going to the second round. It stands for, against, abstention. The reason is because it's in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21514	That's what we did last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21515	It is, but now it says – unless the proposal receives the required majority, it means the vote is against, abstention, but the decision will vote against. If the Federation does not have a sufficient number against, or from the RS then the law passes 2/3 is 19, and from Republika Srpska 10. That's how I'll read you the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21516	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the same thing. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21517	I'm begging you, so it's all clear. In one vote, we'll get an answer to what we're voting on. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. Everyone's voting. Come on, don't, take care of your vote, and the rest of us will. I'm just asking you to take it easy. - For 12, against 14, the abstention has no one. So against the 13 of the Federation. This proposal was adopted because it has no 2/3, it doesn't contain 2/3 against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21518	Can you repeat the vote, I haven't seen it the first time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21519	How is it not accepted? Please, we're done. Is he looking for a repeat vote? Don't look for anyone. Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. You're looking. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Please let us take care of the vote once. - So again, I have to realize that the law has been passed in the second reading and so we move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21520	Two U.S.A. aren't registered at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21521	This is, we can vote to faint like this. Please. Come on. We're moving to the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21522	Wait for Nikola. There are people who don't, here's the number of people who vote against. They've been voted against twice. They're not registered here now. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21523	I'm begging you, is there, is anyone looking, last, just a little bit, there's no need to raise the temperature. I ask the Members to prepare themselves at the request of the SDA Club, the Vice-President prepare for the vote. Vote now. Again. It's not 20. For nothing. I'm just making it up. - So for 16, versus 15. - 14 from the Federation, 1 from RS v. So the law was passed in the second reading. 12 We move to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the amendment of the MPs ruža the Sopta to the draft law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know, the amendment of Mrs ruža Sopta in the last session did not get an entity majority and I must say that no agreement has been reached in the College Commission. Please, as with the previous case, prepare to vote. For Mrs. ruža Sopta's amendment. Yes, the amendment. It's round two again. Same situation. Only the amendment remains controversial. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. For the amendment. - So for six against twenty-four, abstention two. - 14 of the Federation v., 10 of RS. This amendment to Mrs. Sopte has failed. We vote now on the law. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. Are you insisting that the vote be re-elected? Please, my colleague Zorić, the president of the club requests a vote again. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. - So I find that for 28, against 4, no one is abstention, that we passed the Bill on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus gained the conditions to move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the amendment of MP Filip Andrić to the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data Nor did this amendment at the 71st session receive an entity majority. There's been an adjustment. College report as a commission you've received. There's also no consent in the College as a commission. No, so we repeat the same voting system as the previous ones. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 16, against 14, 4 abstentions. - 8 for the Federation, 8 from RS. So he doesn't have most of the Federation. We're going to get a match. So no, so the amendment, I'm sorry, was adopted. We're voting on a full law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 /Joint discussion Šefik Džaferović Martin Raguž/ I'd like a little patience in the College, please. - So for 16, versus 14, abstention 3.. I'm konstatovati we do when it comes to the law. We don't have the Federation most of us, we're going to get a match. So there's no willingness to agree now. Thank you very much. We move to the fifth item of the agenda, we agree in the regular procedure, you'll be notified. The fifth point is Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the amendment and MP Tihomir Gligorić's proposal for a consumer protection law for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the amendment and Tihomir Gligorić was agreed. You have received a report from the Commission from the College. We didn't achieve consent. So get ready to vote. Vote now. - So for 15, versus 16, abstention 1. I konstatuj that we have not received the majority and that this amendment by Mr Gligorić has not been accepted. We're pleading against the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. The amendment has been adopted. There's no general majority. That's right, Branka. So it wasn't adopted. I'm just asking for an interpretation. Let's do it again. Prepare to vote for the amendment of Tihomir Gligorić. Vote now. For the amendment. I'm asking it to happen again, I'm asking as much as you are. Prepare to vote. Vote now. There's no need to get nervous, it'll all be business. - So the amendment, 17 for, 17 against, 1 abstention. The amendment didn't go through with it. Prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. So I realize that with 32 votes for, no one against, two abstentions, we passed a bill on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's consumers. 14 We move to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The draft budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 (first reading), we received the draft budget from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on 21 December 2005. In accordance with Article 106(2), the provisions governing the basic legislative procedure shall apply when considering and submitting budgets. In line with the same attitude, the Dom College cut budget deadlines by obliging the Constitutional and Legal Commission to deliver the opinion by 28 December 2005, and the committee responsible to submit the report by 8 January 2006. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 28 December 2005. The financial and budget committee in charge, the draft budget discussed on 4 January, and submitted the report on 5 January 2006. You've got all the materials connected to the budget. You saw that the committee in charge supported the draft budget and adopted two amendments. In the plenary phase of the amendment to the draft budget they want to defend Club SDS 7 amendments, Club SDA 6 amendments, Miloš Jovanović 5 amendments, Mirsad Ćeman 4 amendments, Vinko Zorić 1 amendment, Tihomir Gligorić 1 amendment. You've got the above-mentioned amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft budget in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Who answers the word? Minister Ljerka Marić. Here you go. I also welcome the Minister and all members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21525	I welcome the president, the honourable representatives and my colleagues and, of course, the journalists, and here I would, if you don't mind giving a few starting tips on the proposal for the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international commitments for 2006. You from the president heard the dates when it started going into procedure and I wouldn't repeat it. What I would point out at this point is that the starting points for the draft budget were the following. The draft budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments for 2006 are set out in Articles 5 to 10. The law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The framework budget document of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions from 2006 to 2008 which actually established an indicative expenditure ceiling for the fiscal year 2006 and a total per budget user. 15 The level of available budget appropriations for 2005 their implementation in the first half of the current fiscal year, i.e. the implementation of 9 months 2005, tasks and activities prescribed by the legal and closer regulations of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the achievement of the level of development of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and planned development and transition in 2006, adopted projects and programmes to be implemented by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2006, subject to the closure of the financial structure for their implementation, available human and material resources in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, subject to the rules governing the right and the level of obligations and requirements for the granting of expenditure, proposals for the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for 2006. Meanwhile, when the budget for 2006 began to work very actively, it was also an attempt to establish a fiscal council in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose primary task would be and whose primary task was, the fiscal council established by the framework agreement on its work to carry out very strict and very strict controls in the context of the collection of incomes from the Office for indirect taxation that collects all indirect taxes, i.e. indirect taxes, and because these taxes relate to the whole country, to the state, to entities and the District of Brcko and what was very important throughout the year was to monitor how, what happens to the distribution of these incomes from the single account and in our report for 9 months the implementation of the budget for 9 months, it is seen that the dynamics that were planned and achieved. At the end of the year, it was actually the end of the last month of the 12th month that even a surplus of the accumulated income from a single account was not planned and not allocated to the state. So the state received the planned amount in 2005 with a single account of 251.6 million and I stress this because of the following – since we are currently in the phase of adoption of the budget, i.e. we started a new fiscal year starting on January 1st of the current year, in a way that, as the Council of Ministers, adopted a temporary decision on financing, which means funding up to 3 months of the current year, in a way that can be financed and can be financed in the maximum amount of the 2005 budget related to income, those users who, as such, existed in the 2005 budget. You will see here in the table first, which says that all institutions have been sorted, i.e. in Article 3 of this budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 10 institutions that were listed at the end of the table did not actually exist in 2005 and that, of course, the problem of financing of these institutions immediately arises in 2006. We are in the meantime, incomes are usually the most important if we want to talk about the budget at all, if we want to talk about financing at all. I will therefore pay particular attention to really some more of the revenues from which the state is financed, and then we'll figure it out by species, the most important part of the revenue that, at the maximum amount of 304 million planned for this year from the single account, is actually compromised, because the state does not get revenues from this account, or, if it does, it will get them for now until the budget is adopted in this amount of 251 million last year. What was planned for this year from the single account of the Office for Immense Taxation is 566 million marks. The difference relates to the financing of the defence, not the Ministry of Defence which existed as a budgetary user in 2005, but to the financing of entity armies that are under the Defence Act, or the laws which defined this area in the transitional provisions, is determined to, in the context of the temporary decision-making of financing, be made after a year in the fiscal year. 16 What is happening now is the following – after trying to make a decision in the redistribution of income from a single account between the entity, Brcko District and the state, it was found impossible to make a decision by law to ensure that the funds from this account are emptied for defence purposes. So the state has a legal basis, a foothold in the law on the collection and distribution of income from a single account in a way that we get last year's income. The military can't be financed because entities within their provisional decision didn't plan it because that's what the law says, we, within our interim decision, can't show it by law, because they weren't our users in this way, except the Ministry of Defence, so now we have a big problem and we don't have any discharges from this account because we can't finance the army without the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the first month. In addition to these revenues and from a single account, you will see here that the state should round up its budget with other revenues that have been transferred from the revenues from taxi fees, current support, extraordinary revenues and the CIPS in total should actually be combined with the profits of the Central Bank 666 point, 666 million 490 thousand marks, and of which would be still the corresponding part of the single account aimed at our account of 278, 109,220 and total for the service of external debt and the total budget of the state in 2006 would be 954 million 599, 220 marks. So in 2006, there is an increase in the budget compared to 2005 for new institutions in the largest amount of defence financing, but also for these new institutions that have been established in the meantime and especially for the part that is explained in the section on these transfers, the extraordinary transfers of transfers, especially for financing negotiations with Europe and all of this here, the reservations that are explained according to each item. As regards the specific, individual request, or the authorised requests to the users of the accounts, Article 3. The Budget Act says that, here we can make, so here in 2005, what happens to certain budget users, what growth is made, or total consumption, planned for BiH institutions, amounting to 633 million 649 thousand. Individual users, together with all of this, relating to the, these tables that speak about the users of the Budget, are located in this middle part of this material, and then we come up with that in Article 3 that ends, meaning, the reservations, which are within which the current reserve, which is intended to finance various needs, explained below in the text of 5 million reserved for old commitments, capital investments, new institutions for negotiations with Europe, and this is planned in the amount of 16 million and 200 thousand. We, within this budget, resorted to a way of planning through annexes. Anek first talks about planned transfers of funds to jies operators paying... The Ministry of Finance for the construction of a planing study of 21 million 884 thousand marks and Aneks ii which speaks about the structure of the source of income, customs, excise duties, VAT, travel fees and distribution of these revenues. The second part of the budget consists of the service of external debt. You know that we must separate our budget to the part that serves to finance the administration and to the other part, which is used to finance external debt, which also provides funds from the single account of the Treasury, the Administration, through the account of the Treasury and that we are doing our duties very precisely. Specific issues, raised by the Finance and Budget Commission, were issues related to the number of employees in BiH institutions, the control of the number of employees, the control of income accounts, means general policy, human resources, payments and other things. We, having already been New Year's Eve, have been able to give the exact number of employees by 2005 and have made a single table to the Commission and presented to them, which says we have exactly 8 000 and 17 17 employees at the end of 2005, and that we expect an increased number of employees to be 22 thousand and 928 employees at the end of 2006, of course because of this they are increasing for both salary and for all other costs, but we also planned to review employees, in a table that speaks for the 2005 staff review, or reception in 2006, and we stress the need for gradual incomes and very precise, three-monthly elaborated operational plans, which can be included, related to income and all other conditions, which need to be obtained and control of spending in the Budget, this table on employment dynamics, one of the most important ones in this budget. All these years, we have actually managed to finance BiH institutions, which are in constant transition, through this precise monitoring of employment, tracking dynamics per month, per quarter. So, this year, we end up with a transition from the Department of Implicit Taxation and the OSCE in 2006 with a new way of funding the Ministry of Defence and we expect that by 1.10, what is most important for the defence to apply the single rules, which is a unique income for all employees, because by 1.10, the rules applicable to entities for these employees are applied. If you look at the final indicators for 2005, we haven't made them yet, so we've made very precise those indicators that refer to nine months in 2005. This report of execution at the end of the year should be done very quickly and it should, in fact, show how successful the 2005 budget was. But based on nine months last year, we can say that we managed to finance everything we planned and yes, here in this year we transfer this 16.5 million. This would be, here, an introductory presentation, related to the planning of the 2006 budget, i.e. that would be the budget, which should meet the needs of the budgetary users, which they delivered in writing. Of course, all these requirements were, however, increased compared to this approved, but this was some way along with this monitoring of employment and, together with ensuring the functioning of the collection of income and distribution of income, i.e. providing income on all other grounds, to finance quality in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21526	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Marić. Who's next to the word? My kolegica Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, So, as Mr. Chairman of the opening exhibition said the Finance Commission and the budget held a session on January 4th and submitted a report on the BiH institutions' budget proposal and international commitments for 2006. I would like to warn you, only on December 28th has it been designated as the competent budget committee and we have all informed you that the session of the Commission is on January 4th, because of the holidays ahead, so that you can work on time with the amendments. So, that memo, I hope you've all got from the pen office. So, on 4 January, we held a session of the Commission, attended by six members of the Commission, two amendments were adopted. I want to tell you that a large number of amendments have arrived at the Commission's meeting. A good part of the amendment is also renewed, as you can see here on the benches. So, the Commission made up the report you received, told you, accepted the BiH institution's draft budget by 3 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 2 votes against, 18 which doesn't have to matter. The amendments that were adopted are here. I don't see that the anti-alignments have been renewed, so these are Mrs. Majkić's amendments. You have a report, that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21528	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Jovanović, and counterpart Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21529	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Evo, I will say a few words about this proposal for the BiH institution's 2006 budget. We, when we passed laws on the unification of both military and intelligence and police forces, said, among other things, that this was done to increase efficiency and economics. However, if they were to add up how much funds were allocated for these purposes while they were at entity level and compare with what is now being singled out while these institutions are at BiH level, then the opposite is what we were saying. So it's not about economics or efficiency. I'm really asking the question, here, I've taken it, so I've collected how much it stands out for the military, for the various police, for the intelligence service, almost two-thirds of the budget, whether we're really building a military-intelligence-police state or we want something else. The other thing I wanted to say is, it might be a little bit funny, but I'm sorry I didn't make the amendment, so that 30 million and 600,000 marks, which are scheduled for the funding of the Agency for Investigation and Protection, are being transferred to the EUFOR account, I think we should open a new item in the EUFOR Budget and transfer those funds to the EUFOR account, because, obviously, it means that the Agency for Investigation and Protection is not doing its job, so that someone else is doing it for them and I say it's too late that I didn't propose that amendment, and I'm sorry about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21530	In view of his colleague, Jovanović said most of what I was going to say, I am giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21531	Thank you. He's a colleague of Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21532	I will try in the shortest time to make the views of the BiH Party, which is related to the 2006 Budget Proposal. We also had a chance at the commission stage to make some of our views known, but here we want to do it again here. Our commitment will be to support the Budget, regardless of the remarks I'm going to make here, I'm going to say it anyway. So the basic remarks that we have in the principles and principles when we are discussing are that Budget is also one important and strategic document for the start-up of next year. That delay is, of course, repeated from year to year and it produces some 19 kinds of, in some way, pressure on us here MPs, time limits, etc. And it usually also affects the quality of the debate that we have here. And this year, we do not have a re-compared execution data for 2005, despite the deadlines in the Budget Law and the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions being rather out of line with the adoption of the Budget, but we have constantly demanded through recommendations etc. that some comparative information on the execution of the Budget for the previous year is given to us, so that MPs can understand the planned figures more realistically. One of our key remarks is that the way user planning itself has not progressed, i.e. that planning is done in a kind of automation and without, so to speak, analytical assessments, functions that are in front of the institutions, which are funded, so that we have, I say, a constantly present type of automation in planning the existing state, adding 10%, and so it revolves around without, to say the presence of analytical evaluations, the necessary means for functions. The last thing we wanted to know, but unfortunately, we didn't get it, so state budget reflections on entity budgets and agreements on these issues, which Miloš Jovanović has asked here. I say it's the opposite. However, we have no analysis and no real information and no percentage. I argue that reforms are not fully implemented and to the end. I claim that entities still retain certain functions and certain structures, etc., so that we have practically, seemingly, possibly seemingly more expensive institutions than we had. It's impossible, with logic once thinking, if instead of the two structures you've done one thing together and rationalized certain things, it's impossible for such a single model to be more expensive than the previous one. But this, anyway, in any case, I don't want to do any controversy, either way, we need to do an analysis, because it is true that our goal here was also an argument, based on which we were actually entering was that it would be more efficient and cheaper. So, we as Parliament, I believe, are interested in the same thing, but unfortunately, we did not have one comprehensive analysis of the financial effects of reforms, etc. And if we've been getting some calculations in the preparation stages, when it comes to certain and, let me conclude. We will first read Budget support, regardless of these remarks. I hope the promoters listened very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21533	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Is it a replica of his colleague Novaković? Yes, it is. Dr. Gligorić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21534	I can tell you that, when it comes to the discussion of my colleague Belkić, there are probably cases like this that he was talking about, but I want to tell my colleague Belkić that there are also cases that my colleague Jovanović spoke of. I was not deliberately talking about the amendments, leaving it for the amendment phase of the Budget debate, but just to point out that in this budget for the Direct Taxation Directorate, 65 million KM was planned, and that the sum of the budgets of all administrations and customs and tax administrations for 2005 was 52 million KM, and we all know for sure that there was no and no braking at the level of entities of the process, so it certainly did not remain a part of these funds to entities, but simply some institutions are, indeed, too unnecessaryly over-priced with this budget. 20 Of course, when we get to the amendment phase, I'll explain in more detail why I, let's say, one of the institutions, where I suggested a reduction of the management funds and there are some more quite certain ones, and I can very well prove what I wrote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21535	Thank you. Dr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21536	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2006, after hearing and hearing, the Minister and her opening statement, I believe that it can be drawn up, that this is not done on the basis of an analysis, based on an assessment, based on documentation, which should follow the Budget Proposal and repeat old practice, to accept by word, on the basis of percentages or by comparison of some estimates or demands of certain institutions, to meet their wishes. I believe that the Ministers should respond to this Parliament, on what grounds did you form the Budget Proposal? You have referred to members who give you the authority to do so, but in the process of making the very documentation technically, etc. You do not have the resources and the necessary resources to follow the draft budget, and you know very well from the financial area that you are obliged to deliver it to the MPs, in order to know on the basis of which you have come up with the appropriate amounts, when you propose to the institutions certain funds. Furthermore, given that we are now in the first reading and that we are on the principles of the Budget Proposal and that I have submitted the amendment myself, and Mr Jovanović and Novaković have already spoken in that part of what I consider to be a matter of principle, which is efficiency, rationality, economics, etc. all that you have in this assembly, when we have formed institutions or when you have planned their work, you have killed yourself, so to speak, to this House from the fact that these institutions will be cheap and economical. Today you propose for these institutions ranging from 50 million to 100 million different financial resources. It shows how capable you are of planning or building a rational institution together. Those two don't work. We must remember what we have spoken in this Parliament and today when we are looking for money for the work of these institutions, in order to convince, through the transfer of competence or in another way, that when it comes to BiH, we will all be happy, it is all cheap, you press the button and all for the sake of the latter, and, behold, we see how far we have come, with some arguments that such funds should initially be considered. Anything you predict at first will continue, because I heard a statement from Mr. Radovanovic, the minister who says he misses 30 million of the Ministry of Defence, but counts that this will be in the budget rebalancing, means he is unhappy with this position and if it is for 50 million more than we had on the entity level to finance such needs. Therefore, I want to tell you on behalf of the Club, the Mixed Club, that we cannot accept the principles of Budget and we can agree on how to work on it. There is one variant, and I think it would be correct to put it back in the commission phase, so that these amendments, which have generally been applied, such as the list and some other things, and I think that we should think about it, or secondly, that we simply do not accept that kind of principle, I consider it a kind of pressure on this Parliament and that in part of the amendment phase, of course, I will be involved, given that I have submitted that amendment myself. Therefore, the Club cannot support the draft budget in this way and in the way they have rejected amendments that were in the commission phase. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21537	Thank you. Elvir Jahić answered. Is it a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21538	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the fact is that we continue with the practice that Budget is not brought to New Year's, because in that year the Budget debate for that year is being transferred, we are discussing at the beginning of the year, but unfortunately this is not only the situation with this Parliament, but also with the entity, cantonal, and even most municipal parliaments, we have a similar situation. We should really take care of it. But probably one of the reasons and a number of reform processes, which took place in the adoption of certain laws, which follow these reform processes, which are closely linked, has been well noticed for this budget. So, that's enough reason for us to support this budget, because by adopting this budget, we allow the reform processes, which we all here in Parliament are heartily in favour of to be able to go uninterrupted. It's normal, that doesn't mean we don't have any objections or suggestions. We have had some amendments, which we presented on the Commission and which have been rejected and which we have repeated, and we will, in any case, stand up for these views. But basically we support this budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21539	I thank my colleague Jahić. A colleague of Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21540	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and representatives of the international community. I took an oath here today, so I don't have enough experience like you, so you'll forgive me if I make a mistake. But my sincere intention is to contribute to the debate on a very single strategic document that is everywhere in the civilized world stimulates the public. My president of the SDA Party Club said the party's position on the budget, i.e. the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2006. I would just like to, my smallness would like to generally turn one suggestion into the methodology of the debate on this very strategic issue. Since it is very important for us to adopt the budget as soon as possible and for BiH institutions to function in the way that we go into integration political processes, as the international community asks us to. I'd like to say something. I do not see one aspect here, and everywhere in legal theory, economic and political theory – the budget when adopted it has three aspects. In addition to economic-financial, it has a legal aspect and a political aspect. Therefore, the president-designate of the Presidency, with the Council of Ministers' consent, proposed indicatively this budget in order to finance the institutions that we have all political parties here and all MPs agreed to go into integration processes and strengthen the institutions of the BiH system, the state. In this respect, I would have little to expect from the mandated speaker in front of the predsjendištvo, the finance minister, that he would give more detailed explanations concerning certain amendments and commissions they had given. The methodology would then make the debate more efficient and then show how realistic they are, from which the conta would be directed and what in this respect. 22 I thought that we would try methodologically to come up with the right solutions, respecting our commissions – the Commission for Finance and Budget, and that in the correct methodology, in the right strategy, we would try, with respect for all the justified amendments and those unwarranted, that the proposaler would not be able to accept the amendments at the next stage, that we would lead this procedure in a very effective way. It's basically so much global. I apologize if I've made it a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21541	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. Senija Kapetanović asked for a word. But if you'll excuse me, Senija, the replica is a colleague of the Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21542	I draw attention to my previous new colleague to say that this budget is also being voted by fellow Members. You've reached out to your colleagues, and there's a co-worker here. As an observation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21543	Okay. No problem. Senija Kapetanović. Here you go. I'm asking you to listen to my colleague, Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21544	Mr. Chairman, fellow parliamentarians, and everyone present today, I would like to thank you for your words and wishes only, since it is in principle only debated the principles of the Budget so far I would like to point out that we have one member of the Budget that is the 11th that states that we are going to fix or, in fact, prepare this building that is so necessary for us, we are working out of donation funds, and how much funds are left. And we've already had that problem so we don't register the donation in time. And we don't have, I don't know, it might be that the responsible will be able to answer why they haven't already specified what the funds are. Because we have budget support provided for the budget from others. So this one could also be shown, to be known, that this Parliament knows what these funds are designed to prepare this building in front of us that stands like this. . I think it can be given and completed, that it would be a normal notice for this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21545	I would like to thank my colleague Senija Kapetanović. Dušanka Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21546	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I can say that the proposal for the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2006 again shows the same weakness as last time. That weakness is called budget planning. It is once again shown that the budget is planned without specific criteria for its construction. In the end, that's the first reason I couldn't support a document like this. Another reason, that precise and binding instructions for the draft budget have not yet been drawn up, with a proposal for sanctions in the event of a lack of respect for it. And for a particular reason, the proposals from the budget are not related to the business activities that budget 23 users plan to take. It's hard to combine this budget and bring a real assessment, so before we combine it with the 2004 budget, we're not current, and we don't have the opportunity to combine it with 2005, because there's neither a six-month or nine-month report that could help put some sizes in order. So, the Commission for Finance and Budget, and this complete home has been placed in a position that it cannot rationally judge because it has no ability to compete. The second Razog zbg, which I believe would not be able to accept, is called an unrealized, i.e. very high and for a justifiable reason current expenditures, capital expenditures and special purpose programmes. It is difficult to explain to the citizens of this country where these increases occurred, from where the increases in the capital expenditure item that is moving along index 318. How is it that special purpose programmes remain high, although not known – only in rough terms, they are listed in absolute terms, although it is not known what they will be intended for, how they are used and whether they can be within regular budget items? We don't know how to pay and pay employees, how do we explain how nearly 450 million in the budget is used for salaries and benefits to employees? How is it possible that through the contract institution, individual employees of BiH institutions have the opportunity to receive three salaries? I didn't get a satisfactory answer from the Ministry of Finance when I asked that a list of receipts be provided for the employees of the Minstar Council. No pay, I'm not interested in wages, although we know that many institutions within this budget have planned their own wages and we don't know what they are. So, it was left at will, we don't have any legally arranged matter. But it was left individually for each institution to bring to itself what a salary fund it is, and it is not, we see that it is neither a racinal nor a development budget. I couldn't get that information and this home couldn't get that information – how many employees in the board of mines have received all the basics. And I think it should be one of the demands of this House, to finally know who in this country is making money. When it comes to employees – in the review of the staff attached to the budget, there are 57 BiH institutions, and in the list of employees we have 53 institutions. He says these are new institutions. The explanation is the Ministry of Finance, and we don't know how many employees they'll have. Imagine the institution that's scheduled in the budget with three million so you don't know how many employees they'll have. Or worse, an institution with a budget of three million, which it says is the number of employees at the end of 2006 zero. Is that the seriousness of budget planning? Again, what the revision drew attention to for 2004 came to light. The same budget users have again shown that they are planning, so without any basis, without increasing the number of workers, a number of budget users increase 70% of the total budget for the institution, although they do not increase new workers, but therefore significantly plans other items where they will be able to redistribute - because my amendment has not passed, to limit redistribution within the budget - to determine what they will buy. Does this home know that for six years some institutions have received up to 30 workers to be employed and that it has already been brought to the limit to the functioning of these institutions because that part of the work is not finished? What experts need individual ministries to do their job, so they are not on the labour market in BiH? There's not enough time and too many mistakes for anyone in this house to vote for a budget like this. That's why I'm suggesting that this budget proposal not be re-supervised. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21547	I thank my colleague, Majkić. My colleague Križanović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to our finance minister in the inauguration. I'm not gonna get her some answers to any questions I was going to ask here, some dilemmas I have about this budget. And unfortunately, I haven't removed my dilemmas, so that's why I want to get involved in this debate. It is clear that the proposal for this budget reflects the situation in BiH. We unfortunately have, here is the practice that counterpart Belkić was already talking about, that about this important document we approach in one very, very stereotyped way, that, by the intruding of the institutions that we have somehow progressively, we have an increase in all for some number of employees, for some issues, etc. Without any critical here observation, why do we have individual costs in individual institutions. Especially since they're very charming. Of course, this is the consequence, above all, of the lack of a law on salaries that is lacking at the state level. We don't have, of course, security policies. And here's what my colleague Jovanović said, we will allocate 2/3 of the budget for security elements in BiH. We don't, we've never discussed before what this SIPA is going to do, what OSA is going to do strategically in one year to fund it. Or we'll just put the number of employees there, rent them spaces and pile up the costs. We don't have economic policy, we don't know what we're going to finance, what we're going to encourage through this budget this year. And of course, in the absence of all that, we have the condition that we have. Let me just point to one, in my opinion, fragrant information. 14 million from the BiH budget will be singled out in 2006 only for the lease of business space. I'll try to reach an end of the debate to formulate a working conclusion about this, but I ask you to seriously consider that this is serious money, that this country has finally its own premises, or that in the end it lists what its assets are and that it starts to rationally manage that property. 14 million marks in the name of the lease! The lease pays, please, and the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. He's got his own building. The departments here have their own buildings, they pay for business premises, and I don't know why and how? Thus, this is truly unacceptable indomitable. I totally agree with my colleague, Majkić. You see, you have an institution -- as it is called -- for foreign affairs, the projected budget of three million marks, and no one is predicted to be employed this year. I think it's really irresponsible. How can any of us now plead one such item in the budget? What I particularly miss about in this critical review of this draft budget is that it is clear that we formed new institutions in BiH, that we must strengthen these institutions, but no one has real analysis. BiH is known as the state with extremely high public spending. There is no reference to whether we are doing something rational with strengthening state institutions, or, on the other hand, we are further contributing to increasing public spending in BiH. So as a member of this parliament, I am not just interested in bringing in a budget that will certainly be financed by state institutions. I'm really worried about whether we're doing something rational with strengthening and forming state institutions in the spirit of rationalisation and quality of work, but also the cost of the state. Here, I don't know if I can trust this data, that 25 is, say, customs administration and what's called the IRS, that together on the entities cost BiH 54 million, and now I don't even know how many 90 and some million. We don't do the right things. And the question is, how long have we held back some of the jobs that cost further in entities and cantons? So I'd like to pray that, if possible, they do one of these, because here are just numbers, and the numbers behind which there are absolutely no rational explanations. I'd still like to ask you something – it's a serious matter, then. As far as I can tell, there are a lot of amendments. I generally say, there are a lot of amendments that I would agree with, but I am under the impression that a very quick approach to the commission's debate on the budget scheduled for 4 January this year. It's been a short time. I just didn't make it with the amendments, so I wanted to suggest, depending on this debate as it went on, that by the next session, more amendment action be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21549	Thank you. The Republic was requested by counterpart Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21550	The replica is not a personal nature, but rather a certain claim. Claims that practically BiH institutions -- said by Mr Križanović and a few other people that BiH institutions are irrational, uneconomic, etc. and that our public spending etc. I remind you that entity budgets are at least twice as big this year, both at least twice as big. And that's why I was saying in these opening notes that we should in general observe the reflections of individual reforms, etc. So we cannot unilaterally and question the practical establishment of state institutions. We question, the way we conduct the debate, we question the institutions of the state. Turns out we don't need them at all. That we shouldn't have made them. Please, let's not go that way. I said, let's look at the whole public spending thing in the overall context. And now I say, look at the entity budgets, look at the canton budget, look at the budget of the district -- the BiH state budget is minor. I'm still saying state, it's right to cost, but we have to be rational, economical, without further ado, I'm in the attitudes, speaking of principles, that's what I said. And don't, this debate will practically come to the conclusion that we don't need state institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21551	Thank you. The Republic is owned by g. Jovanović and Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21552	I don't basically say anything in my head. Now I have to, so I wouldn't take the time, now I'm going to be specific. 278 million and 100 thousand marks, Ministry of Defense. Five million and something else from the Department of Security. 30 million and 600,000 SIPA. 55 million and some DGS. 25 million 830 thousand intelligence. 65 million Direct Taxation Administration -- that's where I count half of them wearing uniforms and guns, they're customs officers. And so, when it's added up, it gets close to 460 million. And the total budget for financing BiH institutions is 634 million. 26 So, this is what I said, so more than two, I said up to two-thirds, and according to the account, it turns out more than 2/3 for funding, I repeat, military intelligence forces in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21553	Thank you. My colleague Bešlagić was looking for a replica. Wait a minute. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21554	I didn't want to discuss it. However, what the draft budget is about. Here, I'll just give you one piece of information. And if it was just, I'd say, the text part that explains that difference, everything would be fine. Here's an example. The defence ministry – an increase is foreseen in the first month of 12,802 people. I don't mind. If I had as many in the Federation as there were in RS. Because we citizens when we go out to tell them to increase the administration from 8.866 to 23 thousand, then they'll tell us how unserious we are. I'm just saying in that sense, that along with this part, there should have been some reason to finance this, and to say -- the military budgets were on the Federation, and there were 630 thousand entities, so many people with this budget are coming down and we're getting a rational state called BiH in that view. I ask you, that's what angers me as an MP, that I don't have that text part that I can go out with and say to people – we go in that sense and that's what this Parliament does. If this is so well understood, I think any education of the number of employees in this section will also give a rational policy run by this parliament. The problem is that our finance ministry, the one that implemented this budget, the Minstar Council did not give it to us, and this is what is causing all these dilemmas and debates. An analysis that would show the efficiency of this Parliament, the adoption of certain laws, because in the end we will be called why we have adopted laws that go on consumption, and that is not the case when globally viewed. I agree with Beriz, but we also need to understand the criticism of those who have proposed a budget like this, we don't have that explanation. That's the essential thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21555	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Kunić asked for a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21556	It's not a replica, it's a couple of findings. Thank you, Chairman. I think the discussions so far are expressing a real state, depicting the truly presented Budget to this assembly. I think the executives have passed the exam on this one with a very negative grade. In fact, the issue of the security structure is really being raised. We're convinced, the public is convinced, so, a lot of things have been said politically, it's been done in closed circles, it seems to me that even, I'm not sure, really Mr. Gregorijan, we're getting a more rational defense, etc., now we have a proposal to raise funds. I think it's absurd situations and it's illegal for a modern parliament, for a democratic parliament, to accept these things from the executive service. Planning a fictitiously some costs, it's absurd, it's not allowed. Well, this one, the budget has the character of the law, the power of the law. You can't assume something you can't even know you're planning the funds. It's a total mistake, a mistake. 27 So it is one freedom, one maneuvering space, in which the Council of Ministers moves, a very suspicious character. There is no council of ministers, obviously no obligation to this House. He does what he wants. He got rid of Parliament a long time ago, thanks to the electoral dictatorship, of course, we have this situation. Hired a business space, had some time, so I took a look. It's terrible how much some places are paid, how much this country pays for some space, so if it's a tender, I don't know. I can't see, I've read the auditor's report. I don't see it, but the costs are abnormal. And then we're talking about a rational state, an effective state, a rationalization of costs. That way we'll never get there. Obviously, individuals in these executive services are well - installed. This I realized in the commission's work, that the bureaucratic structure of this state greatly strengthened, very strengthened. That shows this budget. It's Mr. Belkić, he's famous for the centralization, for the unitary concept constantly, it's already a notoristic fact, it's not I should repeat it here, it's shown many, many times. I'd warn him of one thing. In Europe, around 35 per cent of the budget is spent on the public sector. One Germany, which is a federal state spending on public sector at the state level, is 12 per cent of the funds. The rest of the country is landers and municipalities of course. Therefore, when you talk about these things, you must bear in mind the structure of the BiH state. But, me, I'd really make a big mistake if I didn't say one fact. Republika Srpska spends on the public sector about 40, between 40 and 45%, the Federation spends 65%, which is a significant difference. Therefore, I would suggest that Mr. Belkić and some others advocate constitutional changes to wait a little where large funds are spent, irrationally, and that is the Federation. You don't seem to be touching the right places at all. So you'll never get this salary to go through until you touch the right stuff. So, of course, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21557	Let's just hear it for a second. Kunic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21558	that the state has no concept, the concept of reform, nor, of course, can then be accompanied by adequate costs etc. And that's why we have this mess in Budget that's been presented to the MPs. I don't know if it's going to come, of course it's clear that this budget is going to be fiasco today. Whether there will be later pressures, which will infuse certain factors, these international officials, we will see that, will not force me to vote, and I hope many others do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21559	Thank you. Ljiljana Milićević, Mr. Đedović, and Mr. Živković reported the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21560	Mr. Chairman, obviously there are some clarifications to be made here. So, at the commission stage, we had Mrs. Marić in front of the Bureau's mandated proposer. We even suggested to her and the people of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury because of the large number of amendments and specificities of the situation, if it takes a few days for the Council of 28 ministers to consider amendments. They said, we got an answer that could do it right away. So, we took a break, and after that, every amendment is always about whoever is in front of the committee's proposer, so then the members of the Commission vote. Let's just get this straight. As for the Budget, I want to read you five conclusions, to listen to them well, and then I'll explain them. So they refer to the Budget. The first conclusion, the Commission, when discussing the Budget Proposal and the Budget Act, concluded that it did not have any comparative indicators and the necessary information for quality decision-making, such as data on the implementation of the Budget for the previous year, data on the intentions and programmes of the action of budgetary users, in terms of the need for new employees to obtain equipment and the like. That's the first conclusion. That's another conclusion. The Commission requires the Proposer of the Budget Law to prepare a comprehensive review of public spending at national and entity levels in the future during the debate on the Budget and the Budget Law on the implementation of the Budget in order to enable the control of the financial aspects of future reform flows, the transfer of competences, as well as to allow for an insight into cost profitability. The third conclusion - The relevant institutions should prepare data on the status of state property, availability and potential income from that property, and regulate this area as soon as possible. The fourth conclusion – In the event of future discussions on the budget of BiH institutions and the Law on Budget Implementation, more time should be allowed for discussion before the Commission in order for the Commission to reach as high a quality proposal as possible with the Commission's proposal. And lastly, the Commission found an unconsistent situation in the area of payment of salaries to budgetary users as regards the inequality of the pay-out ratio. The Commission therefore re-proposes the House to adopt a conclusion adopted during the debate on the Budget Proposal and not realised, for the previous year -- that the Council of Ministers draws up a draft bill on employees' salaries in BiH-level budget users. Why am I reading this, gentlemen? All the conclusions sound very good and come from your debate today. It would be no wonder if this were not the date of January 1st, 20005, if these were not the conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives last January 10th, it meant the adoption of the budget for 2005. As a responsible home, so I consciously answered, in the end, to hear the discussion, and to see what actually changed compared to last year. A little, gentlemen. Yes, the numbers have changed and the number of employees, the rest – very little. Where we stand as a Dom in relation to the Council of Ministers and those to whom these conclusions were addressed, what was done by these conclusions. I have to say again - a little. As regards the discussion on the lease of space, as an MP, I need a fourth time to adopt a budget in which between 14 and 15 million is allocated for the lease of space, meaning, for the accommodation of joint institutions., It will, gentlemen, by adopting this budget – which will be adopted, if not today, perhaps tomorrow or the day after tomorrow – amount to over 50 million marks, that in this conference we have singled out for the lease of space. How much money could we raise, what could we do, buy, buy? Who will answer to the citizens of BiH for this item – no one. I am afraid and will have to leave these conclusions and the previous conclusions for the next assembly of this Parliament. Well, maybe somebody's gonna read it with one of them and watch why things aren't done right. 29 We are going through discussions here in a circle. As Parliament, we have created legal assumptions for the work of budgetary users. We were the ones who passed the proper laws. Then we created material assumptions for them to work with. Most discussions of colleagues, in fact, came down to this – so where are the effects of what these institutions are doing? Did they respond to what we provided them, so we created legal conditions for them, gave them material assumptions. What did they do last year? Where's the impact review? Where's that efficiency that's kept talking about? That, unfortunately, is not there. I must say again, I have said this before – I believe that both our ministries and certain budget users depend on management, or on people who operate. You have very effective ministries, where, as our people say, 1/1, everything works. And you have ministries where, again as our people say, they don't know who drinks, and God knows who pays, we all pay by adopting a budget like this, so I think personal solutions are different. And that's what the audit report tells us – from the entire Council of Ministers, we only have one ministry that has received a positive opinion. Unfortunately, but that's right, though, we don't have any negatives, so we said, thank Bog, we don't have a minus this year, it'll be better. Why am I saying all this? So I say for a reason - if we went to a reduction in the number of people, increased wages and compensations, we provided them with these new European working conditions, we provided them with everything. And if these people don't do their jobs, that's something to change -- or some people who don't respond to their jobs. I understand the irony of Mr Jovanović – why someone is getting paid and the other is doing his job. Let everyone in this country do their job and what they're paid for. If he doesn't do his job, he'll have to be punished. So if the way of punishment is for some to lose their jobs, others to be reduced wages in proportion to their work. I'm afraid that there's still what's going on here - they can't pay me as little as I can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21561	I thank my colleague Milićević. A colleague, Đedović, answered the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21562	Dearly respected presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, whom we look so rarely at in this room – I want to encourage you all together. First of all, I would say that I am all in favour of establishing state bodies, efficient, professional and functional. But I am on the other side against all abuses of these goals in a way that covers up anyone's work, anyone's inaccessibility, or anyone's inefficiencies. The way we adopt the budget from year to year, I think it's a combination of those two principles. Every year, we are tested for either patriotism, or cheek, or spine, or patience. If you don't do this now, that's it. If you don't do this, there goes that. And by doing that, he's going through us with whatever comes to mind. I think that principle of work must become the past. I really think it has to be the past. Secondly, I have listened carefully to Mrs. Minsitrix, and as one of the criteria in drawing up this budget, she has cited the behaviour of the present, the spending by the users so far, etc. I'll only go through two examples, and there's a lot of them, and I'll prove it's not true. That's not true. And more so, it makes me feel like I'm going to have a little bit of a break in budget-making. You, gentlemen, in the review report you have, when it comes to civil aviation, said she didn't spend money from previous years, not 30 show up and haven't been returned to the Council of Minors. And then you have a proposal to give them an index of 120 and something this year. In my opinion, it's beyond any logic. Or, we have an even worse situation with the Agency for Labour and Employment, where it says there are three million marks of armed, 300,000 euros armed, 145 thousand interest marks. And then he says the budget proposal for this year's index 140 and something. It's a good thing there's extra money somewhere, but it's obvious that someone bad with money lords, obviously someone bad with money manages. And there comes to these couples hard, hard, and they are taken from those who have nothing to eat. The responsibility for this must be borne. The next example I'm going to point out -- gentlemen here pointed out the lease, I've talked to almost every budget about the lease, and I want to expand it to two things that, in my opinion, they don't have any reason again. We've got a $14 million lease, we've got a current maintenance of 16 million. Current maintenance - I emphasize. And then we have investment maintenance and reconstruction 4.5 million. Now, current maintenance is 16, and investment and reconstruction is 4.9. It doesn't make sense. Also, given the fact that everything that is purchased is almost new, because these institutions are only forming, that there is some guarantee, there are no more products without a year, two, three guarantees. Where's all this money going? So I'm really saying this most well-meaningly with the aim of not producing new institutions that aim to be their goal is to exist for themselves, but to provide working conditions, but to put them in the position of citizens, which, ultimately, is why they both exist here. All this I've said again is really well-intentioned, and I'm particularly affected by the fact – no matter what we say, says counterpart Milićević, she's gone, no one's doing anything. The fact is alarming, astounding that our commission is ordering 33 criminal charges. Gentlemen, because of a lot of smaller money, they're full of prisons. I'm gonna need you And we say from year to year don't do it like that, you can't just give it away, get serious, change, stop – no one. For these reasons, I cannot support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21563	I thank my colleague Đedović. Word has a colleague, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21564	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my distinguished colleague in her presentation expressed the views of the SNSD in her presentation, and it is clear to all why the SNSD cannot accept budgets, especially since neither our amendments to the defence nor our views regarding the listing of the population that were previously known and included here. However, given that the SNSD does not want to introduce additional instability in BiH, I will try to make a proposal on how to get out of this agenda today. Namely, compared to Article 106. The Rules of Procedure are that we've been given a budget beyond all deadlines. There are, of course, objective and subjective reasons, which is why entity budgets have not been adopted, and for these reasons, he has been planning this budget. And Article 2 of that same article says that the provisions governing the basic legislative procedure will apply when the budget is adopted. So, we received here a report from our commission, and I suggest that we return this report to the Commission, that because of what some colleagues said, the amendment phase was not adequate, many amendments were not submitted – to extend the amendment procedure and to talk again about the budget afterwards. I think that's an acceptable solution for both the Council of Ministers and the Parlment here. Otherwise we'll get into a situation so the budget doesn't get voted. 31 I ask that this proposal be voted upon before the budget vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21565	I thank you, Adem Huskić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21566	Mr. apprehensive, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, I will try to be very brief. At first, I want to say that I will support the budget even though I don't think it's good, and I agree with most of the criticisms that my colleagues have put forward so far about the budget. But as my colleague Đedović said, there are a lot of things being tested here, so I feel like my patriotism is being tested on this budget, so that's all I'm going to vote for him for. By the way, I think that by the will of the most responsible people in this country, we MPs have been put in a position today on 16 January to discuss the budget for this year and that, unless we adopt the budget, I can question the financing of some institutions that I and all of us here voted to build, to form them, which is not my goal. I think it's in the approach and making budget peas that mostly, in my opinion, radio in one copying way, so that those institutions or agencies that once acquired a particular function more favourable than others, they keep that favourable position, so I don't know how long it's going to be. I remember the discussion with last year's budget, I think there were conclusions to fix it, however, there is no such thing. As an illustration, all I'm going to say is that, for example, The communications agency has twice the salary of the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, which is unclear to me. I don't see any reason for that, but that's the way it is. I'd like to defend what they've been attacking most of the time. That applies to these security structures. I'm a member of the commission and I feel a duty as an MP and as a man to say a few words about it. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, which is DGS and SIPU. The Department of Defense is the only ministry, as far as I know, which has organised a public debate on its budget for this year. Members of the Defence and Security Policy Commission were present, members of our Commission on Finance and Budget. The seminar lasted two days. Before that, there was a seminar in the sixth month when the budget was being prepared, when it was not known whether reforms would be resolved or not. . And then all the participants who were there – and there were ten MPs – strongly supported the draft budget. And now he's down by about 30 million and reassessed, or he's rated as big. I think it's a small budget, but it's probably the fruit of some compromise. 310 million was, as I recall, 1.7% of DDP and that's something that's a European standard. In the meantime, we opted for a professional army and it's clear, and we need to be aware that the professional army, which is more expensive than a non-professional army that is not paid, is more expensive than a recruit. Therefore, it has its price. Joining the Partnership for Peace and NATO has its price and we have to pay it and we need to be aware of it. As for these other security structures, or DGS, we had in the last session, I think there was a gentleman here from DGS who informed us that the DGS is missing about 500 employees. The Commission, whose member I have been visiting border crossings and believe that 32 is a disaster and a disgrace from the crossings that they look like. I think you should invest more in the DGS, more and in the SIPU and more and in the defense, regardless of what now at first glance looks like it's expensive. I see that people are responsible here, they don't need a lawyer, they'll explain it. But here I am as an MP and a member of that committee I felt obliged to say what I mean. So I think the budget for defence and security structures should have been bigger, not smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21567	I thank my colleague Huskić. Just one little note to make. I don't think this budget should be tied to patriotism. It is not patriotism to vote for any item that has no valid evidence that it is in the citizens' interest. And there's a big difference between the budget and the public loan. The public loan can be patriotic and the state invites me to write a loan for patriotic obligations. And there's a big difference. That's why I don't think you need a big bag. The budget requires a serious debate and a serious defence of every item in the budget. And that's why I think we're going to come up with some good solutions with quality debates. The word was asked for by a colleague named Žilić. Here you go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21568	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the budget is the biggest item of the security service... I'd like to explain something and say at first that I support the 2006 budget. First of all, we have 19 segments of the security system in the police system currently in BiH. We have an army that is already being reformed and that has already reached 15,000. When you compare it to the neighbouring states, that's three times less. So, in transition, our demands are a little bit more difficult now, but for next year or next year, it'll be a far more rational tit than it is for the neighbors. Furthermore, when it comes to segments of the police system, we have 19 segments of the police system, and we have about 22.0000 officers in total. We have an unassembled system, so to speak, that doesn't work in the entire BiH area. And he is in office and should be in office of every BiH citizen. If you ask that question and this reform that we're doing right now in the police system, it's a far more rational system that will give far greater effects than it currently does, or what it gives to the number of cops we currently have over 22,000. Here, when the DGS issue is raised as a segment of police structures – where we have about 2,000 – is there a question of what the grey economy is doing across borders? That's five times the security figure. And the point should be to give the DGS an emphasis on training that service to answer that question. And that's why we need to accept the budget, we need to give the opportunity to go into transition as soon as possible, because in the next two years, the effects will be far greater than we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21569	Thank you, colleague Žilić. The word has a Mirsad Ćeman. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21570	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I applied to press this button, so electronically and in the order of order, not to repeat what many colleagues have said, and with that I agree, I will only, and simply to point out, draw attention to one item that I have in special notes along with the amendments that I have made, I have also highlighted in writing. Namely, the term of the lease of business premises is mentioned. They have these two types to say rent and rent. One that the authorities here in BiH are doing and, in some ways, taxpayers' funds are re-entering BiH's financial flows, so it's a turn to say the capital is still doing here. But there's one item that I specifically pointed out to here a third time, and it's a lease of business space for our DKP abroad. Please, for us, however, great money in absolute terms is not so large, perhaps even symbolic of some external budgets, perhaps some other powerful states, but yet these funds are not actually being poured out of BiH. I've been through or before, I've made a parallel, and I want to do it again for both the predsjendištvo and the Council of Ministers, and finally the foreign minister who's not here, to point it out again. Take several cities, university centres in BiH – Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla – who do not – parents of children who study in these cities instead of paying expensive rents to their children simply behave rationally, buying a flat there, and instead of paying for hiding, pay for a loan for the apartment. Why don't this country take some credit there and buy a building of embassies, consulates, etc. Instead of paying big bucks, or pounds, or what do I know about repaying that loan? That's what I was pointing to. You just don't think that way. Here, so I don't get into these other items, I do that again. I'm not one of those -- like all of you can talk about this budget for two hours. Of course he needs to be adopted. If we're going to do it today or the day after tomorrow, we'll see, but I just wanted to point to this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21571	Thank you, Dr. President. Duraković, and Dr. Avdić. Dr. Crescent. Duraković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21572	I don't know how to start, but I'm aware that the budget needs to be adopted as soon as possible. And on the budget in normal legal states falls or remains any government. But what we've got, as well as good intentions would really just not go for many reasons. But I'd be practical. It's not about whether we need some institutions or not. We adopted them and formed them and they should exist. It's not about whether they're expensive or more expensive than they were or not. They are who they are. It's simply one way of planning a budget that's the result of an old one to say very bureaucratic practice, the result of one psychology and behavior, haughtiness, wastefulness. One amazing thing to say, so something a normal citizen in this country can't understand. That in the kind of misery and misery that BiH is in, at such a level of development, so expensive a country that is certainly, in line with the economic opportunities of the country, the most expensive, far-reaching state in the world. Now we want to keep picking her up. This is what we do when I list, so I don't bother you. 34 Here is the first Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH – I accidentally came from it. What she promoted and what investments we got, she wouldn't want me to talk about right now. Therein is a small item: a million and 343 thousand. Then I'll skip some of these, just a little patience to find only those that sting my eyes. Here, the Directorate for European Integration – Azra will not be right, but nowhere in Europe is near us or what they have done – they have a million and 750 thousand. Here MiP – Ćeman says they are in a difficult situation, they need to pay rents etc. – rental costs are not very small – 4 million and 346 thousand. But there are some strange items that no one can understand. Every time you want to hide money, it says – agreed and other special services. Well, then those special favors are $4 million and 18,000, and last year they were two million. This is interesting that in all the proposals the increase compared to last year is at least 20, 30, and about 60 percent. How is it that in less than a year all these services increased by more than 50 percent? Who can explain that? Here, the Ministry of Defence - I agree, someone now said they're going to the professional army, secondly, collect costs and so on. But travel expenses - 5 million and 40,000. So where on earth do they travel to? Five million and 40,000? And the army has nothing to eat. Then, the supply of 19 million and 501,000. What are we going to get new and we're selling extra guns? Expenses for ongoing maintenance – as far as I know, this building is a military building on the Bistrok, there is as much extra as you want. Expenses for the ongoing maintenance of nearly 10 million – 9 million 917 thousand and so on. Let's move on. Here, the BiH Presidency, 5 million and 102 thousand budgets. But that's why there are expenditures on fuel services and transport – they need 200 grand for fuel. They're driving gentlemen. So they need the rent, and they, to whom do they pay the rent, Ćeman I not know, who can be explained to me? Everyone's a ministry in this building and says rent costs. To whom do these ministries pay their money? Can anyone explain it to me? To whom does the presidency, which is the collective head of state, pay the rent? Somebody explain it to me. I don't know. There's room, Ćeman, more in this country than you need for Japan. But the question now is, what does that mean? And if I don't bother you, I can count at least 200 of these items now. I suggest that this draft budget be returned to the proposer, that not a new one be prepared again, but a kind of savings plan in relation to this proposal, i.e. cutting items everywhere where it is real and where it is objectively possible and to show this troubled citizen that there is someone in this country who can stand in the end of riding, blasphemy, that luxury and that bureaucratism, as I have already said. I repeat, it's not about whether we need these institutions, the ministries and everything else, but to see if we can really adopt one budget that will first of all reflect our willingness to rationalize and save, for a logic that is suitable for stabilisation. And that, in the end, this doesn't always get beat up over his head. ademe, it's not a question of patriotism, it's simply a matter of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21573	Thank you. A colleague of Avdić. It's a replica, isn't it? Mirsad Ćeman, replica. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21574	Professor, just so we're clear, I may not have been precise. When I was the first parallel between the lease funds within BiH and those when I spoke in the DKP network -- I said, at the very least, what is being paid inside BiH if nothing goes to the citizens of BiH, some entities there and somehow rotates in BiH. But what's out there, it goes unprovoked, etc. That's the logic, that's what I wanted to point to. Although I agree that, of course, it can be questioned and it should – why so many of these entities that they are renting business premises. At the very least, this parliament should have this in an adequate manner, if necessary. So let's just understand each other in that regard. I have no principled objections to what you, Professor, have said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21575	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Avdić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21576	Thank you, Mr. Predating. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I will set up one thesis that is alternative to the discussions so far – what kind of Parliament is such a budget. I repeat once again - what kind of Parliament, such a budget. Why? Because the Council of Ministers has no minimum responsibility for this House. Because the Council of Ministers has political authorities and powers in BiH. Because the Council of Ministers has no need to account for this House. Because this parliament makes dozens of conclusions that it never checks out, or simply goes to those to whom they are directed. And it makes sense why we have a budget like this. Why didn't we ask for a budget from whoever was supposed to send it to us since October of the month, Mr. Chairman? It's the BiH presidency. Where was the budget in October 2005? Where was the budget and who's responsible why the budget is five months late? Well, guys, let's not play kids here. We haven't been here since yesterday. So, absolutely, the Parliament that all goes from and it ends with, it just doesn't do its part of the job. Don't do your part of the job. And it's no wonder that the people of the Council of Ministers don't have the need to simply consider the budget a crucial issue, both political, economic, sociological and every other year, etc. Two, fellow Dr. Kunić and this last row, including this one in front of us and the others, asked for regular, real-time TV transmissions to be provided for important points of the agenda. Let BiH see how we and how we discuss one of the most important documents in BiH. It's a really illogical attitude towards both the promoter and all those who signed the document. That's it, that's what we've been looking for. It's ignoring to that extent that simply a man should no longer be mentioned. Under three, I've only analyzed one item of this budget. This item is called – contractual and other special services. That item is very interesting, and underneath it is a lot to hide. Analyzing it every year – three years I analyze it believe. Three years, believe me. This is the fourth year. So, I'm analyzing the item of contract and other special services. Every year they increase, at least 20-30 percent. It's people's contracts of action. That you know well. So, setting up the ahbabi business, roughly speaking. So, look at it this way -- the ministry of the vault is raising it 50% this year -- no less or less. I'd really like to hear from 36 of the Ministers, whom they do and why they increase the funds of contract and special jobs. Don't they really have the capacity to do their job? If they don't have the capacity, let them say it. Under two, the Ministry of Human Rights is no less than 470 percent. It's possible there's some special obligations I don't know. Refugees, okay, but 460 percent is really a little indicative. Then the Ministry of Communications and Traffic 46 percent. And the D.A. doesn't raise it any less by 98 percent. Not to read any further. There are some bright examples. Those who might need such contractual and special jobs – they are SIPA, DGS, etc. They really don't. They really don't, people were modest, 60-70 percent lower than planned. As well as measurement institutes, intellectual property, standardisation, etc. So there are some bright examples. It is these institutions that should have increased they have reduced, and those that absolutely shouldn't have any increase they go enormously high. What motivates them. I knew and from the press we heard that this budget today will not be adopted, brother dear, that should be clear. They're ordering parties that the budget will not be adopted today. That's what the discussion is all about. You don't have to be surprised. So, I suggest next. My colleague Duraković was on the trail and my proposal. I propose, indeed, given Parliament's content discussion, the House of Representatives, that the budget is really significantly reconstructed, in line with the fundamental position written by the Council of Ministers, which is to respect the difficult socio-economic situation in BiH. I'd say dramatic. They wrote it, but they absolutely didn't follow it. Which means they really return that postulate and simply create the BiH institutions' budget accordingly. So according to the dramatic socio-economic situation in BiH. That's one. Two, I propose to my colleague, President of the Finance and Budget Commission, who has been a great debate today, and has shown us that inflation of views and opinions is coming, that it is proposing or organising a public hearing on the BiH institutions' budget as soon as possible. What does that mean, a public hearing? Like all parliaments do - people in front of cameras and once discuss with those who have made a Buddha. As does the American Congress and everyone else. When did we do it in this House here? It's not a canoe. We've got three months. [[Stammers – late]] No, it's not too late for three months. We've got Milos. And under three, I ask you one more time. Next time we'll look for a dramatic, simple move we'll make if the TV cameras aren't in this room. Mr. Chairman, I'm warning you on behalf of a group of MPs, it means we'll find a way to bring the cameras to the b-h parliament room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21577	I thank Dr. Avdić. I owe you a few explanations. First. I have to say, when it comes to the budget, the College has been acting on business. We don't have to invite anyone to work and act in accordance with the Constitution, it's his obligation. And you know that the presidency is obliged to deliver the budget by October 15th for next year. We didn't get that. What the College could do, the public is working and the citizens are doing, that maximumly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, cut deadlines so as not to accuse us of obstructing the budget. But I would beg, therefore, your messengers, every conclusion of this house went to the address the MPs wanted and to whom they had instructed. The second thing is whether you're ready to discuss the responsibilities of these addresses. A few times, Dr Avdić, I started an initiative – you cried over the Council of Ministers, you didn't give, you were afraid if it went down this country, etc. So I'm asking you to be 37 consistent when you're looking for responsibility when something's wrong. And I respect every sentence of yours. So do not refer to the address of the College anything that does not stand as an address. If I were to say today what all my colleagues said about the budget, I would know what the result of the vote is. But she's right in front of us. It's the first time I've heard today that it's a patriotic obligation. I said, a public loan when it calls the state, invites citizens to patriotism, but when they take their money, there's no patriotism, there's responsibility for spending what's taken from citizens. Here's all I wanted. Who's next to the word? Please don't, I didn't want to replicate. I just asked you not to send it to our address. [[Avdic reporting for replica]] And this public transmission thing, I have to say -- today at the College, we were also discussing it. We were also discussing it. We in this House almost passed the Law on Public TV System and Service to obtain conditions to call on the Administration to talk about this being realized and working on it, believe me, it's not easy. There. Who's still reporting for a budget discussion? Here you go, Comrade Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21578	I've been looking for a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21579	So on behalf of the HDZ Club, a half-hour break. Gentlemen, let's get back to work, just a little while, Comrade Zorić, he's not here, he asked for a break. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need for an explanation, Martina?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21580	He'll be here in a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21581	Is there, is there anyone to report further for the debate? We're waiting for the explanation of the HDZ Club. She asked for a word. There's no need to extend the break. Can we see where Zorić is? I suggest we get started. A fellow Zorić requested a half-hour break. Is there a need? I ask the messengers for patience. Mr. Jovanović, it will be, so there will be time. Is there any need for counterpart Zorić to explain the half-hour break requirements? If there's no thanks. Let's move on. Who's coming forward for the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21582	The president of the dom, gospodin Špirić, called for the debate. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21583	A fellow chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed ministers, namely, I was thinking after a good debate that was held, if there is any need to report for the word, but I just want to say a few notes. Today I see my fellow professors who have not taken part in the budget debate, but that in itself means a lot when it comes to this budget. I will not enter the structure and depth of this budget either, but I would like to say that I appreciate the appearance of Mrs Ljerka Marić's finance minister here in front of Parliament today who defended this budget even though the chairman of the Council of Ministers sent a message two days ago that the budget would not be adopted. Imagine a country where the chairman of the Council of Ministers who sends the budget says two days in advance that he knows he will not be adopted for political reasons. That's why I think the minister's role is very difficult. But today I did not listen to the political reasons my colleagues presented, but they asked that every item in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina be explained and the budget is not the plan, it is the law, and if it says there will be a suit bought, then shoes cannot be bought. So people are looking for responsibility for the exercise of power and in order to ultimately save themselves that, I am ordering the chairman to exercise power without having to deal with politics, if it is possible to end this year in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it would best be, here is my recommendation to Minister Marić to ask for 10, 15 days of the additional commission phase in which the ministry of the vault and the commission working on this will see what the amendments can be built on, what is still possible to fix in order to join the first next session the first and second reading and get to the budget. I think it's the only rational way out of this unless we want to not vote today in the first reading budget. But if I knew that not voting the budget in the first reading would create responsibility for the Council of Ministers, then I'd rather be in favour of such a variant. I'm not sure, I think they don't care whether they don't vote or give an additional amendment phase. That is why I think and call on fellow MPs to make this decision in the spirit of the debate we have been having, but it is almost certain that it will take time for this budget to be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21584	I thank Mr. Špirić. Any further reports? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21585	The Council of Ministers is asking for a break. How much? We asked you to take a break. Half an hour at the request of the Council of Ministers. Half an hour. Just a little bit, please. The Council of Ministers can't ask for a break. I'm sorry. Dr. Crescent. Duraković, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21586	As far as I know, the Rules of Procedure, representatives of the Council of Ministers, no matter which ministers they are, cannot conduct here when we will have a break or not. 39 I suggest the following - that this house be made known to your proposal that you have now made. So that one reasonable time limit is given to re-examine certain items and how certain items are cut, etc. at that commission stage. and to consult a little of the amendments that there are many, to install what can and to make that new proposal at the first next session of this house. And put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21587	Thank you, Dr. President. Duraković. I think that's how we can conclude it. Here I call the Council of Ministers, he can't ask for a business break. It's not mature to vote, so if we vote, we won't have a proposal. This is an attempt to come to a better solution. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Prepare to vote. Ten days, 15 days. 15 days is a deadline. Please, we have a 30th session, 15 days. There's plenty of time for 15 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21588	Distended from microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21589	It doesn't matter, but we'll have a quorum, it could be a session. Please prepare to vote, 15 days is a new deadline. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, taking into account the amendments and the commission's report and everything to look into the Council of Ministers. Thank you. - For 31, against no one, abstention 2.. I konstatovati that we have adopted this proposal to give the additional phase of 15 days to the Council of Ministers, together with the commission's report and the Commission's report, amendments on the table, to try to make the commission a new report. _______(?) The chairman, with the new Adams. Yeah, that new phase, 15 days. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. The draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2006 (first reading) I think we should move this point too. Do you agree? Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. So this will be the point at the next session, when there's a budget. Thank you. - For 34, against no one, one abstention. 40 I agree that the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of BiH for 2006 has been removed and agreed to be a point for the budget at the next meeting. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 27 December 2005, we received a proposal from Mr Moranjkić to amend and supplement the Law on the indirect taxation system with a request for consideration and adoption under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You've got the material. I'm opening an emergency request dispute. There you go, pal Moranjkić, and Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, along with this law on amending and supplementing the Law on the Implicit Taxation System, gave a clear and brief explanation to the final and formal and order and obligations of the legislator and I think there is no one in this room who is not clear and familiar. So I'll be brief in my discussion. By chance, or by accident this Parliament has, at the end of 2003, passed the Law on an indirect taxation system as one of the laws of the set of laws that follow the reform of the tax system of the IRS gave the authority over everything that is incomprehensible and unacceptable, especially when it is known that the Constitution of this country does not accept, I would like to say that it is an unconstitutional category. We felt the illogical and brake in practical life decisions made in Articles 14 and 29 of that law in this House when it came to the agenda of the VAT Act and when we saw only then that the mention of the law puts the administration of indirect taxation above this Parliament and that this Parliament has no power to change anything in this area without good faith under the alleged signs and consent of the Administration of indirect taxation. Given that this is an unconstitutional solution, and also a practical brake, any new additions and solutions from this area, and you can see that life requires and requires it, changes to such legal solutions are necessary to open and create opportunities for this parliament to carry out its constitutional task as the highest legislative body in this country. That is why I propose to this House to accept, in summary of the urgency of Article 105 and the law itself on amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system. True, it will be heard in these benches and other opinions that Article 14 and Article 29, which I suggest that the amendments have other connotations in someone's explanations, however, I own a document that the administration of indirect taxation gave to my previous law where she decidently said we do not approve of any change in any of the laws. In other words, she is a member, because she also called on Article 14 and 29 to say that she is the final one who gives yes or no to changes in this law. That is why I propose that this law be adopted and a member on its resolution. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21592	Thank you. The word was requested by Minister Marić, then by counterpart Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21593	I would only ask you one thing, since these laws are laws that have been passed together on the basis of, together with entities and Brcko District, under an agreement previously signed so that this fiscal jurisdiction could be transferred to the state at all. It would be really embarrassing if Parliament accepted the procedure under Article 105. I would really ask you, of course, that there are a lot of things that are not easily acceptable, that can't just be overcome. But this is really one very important question. It is important that, for example, I can now appeal to the first conclusion that has just been read about all the adoption of the budget that says this Parliament is looking for a consolidated picture of public consumption, and then of course for consolidated revenues, etc. Which is why, in fact, this board of directors has been established in part. It is the basis for a single unit of macroeconomic analysis all in the function of obtaining a consolidated picture of income and expenditure, and, of course, ensuring in some real time and efficiency of all this. Please mean that this law is returned to regular procedure, amending and supplementing the law to return to regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21594	I thank Minister Marić. Momo Novaković has needs? There is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21595	So I don't think there's a lot of need to spread the story about this. Part of my intention means the minister already said. I just want to remind my colleagues, I think we've discussed this several times that here when we adopted the Law on the indirect taxation system, we've had in mind that this was about the conditional transfer of competences defined by the agreement between the two entities and in that sense I'm not prepared to support any bill that will in any way, especially by Article 105 of the Treaty. I don't think we can do that, because it's an agreement between two entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21596	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Your colleague Moranjkić needs to explain something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21597	Not to explain, but to replicate. I think this is something else, and what this law is essentially is something else. The opinions and recommendations of the Directorate for indirect taxation can stand and they are also proposed to stand, but that final decisions over Parliament, or that Parliament cannot do without theirs, you know that the procedure afterwards entered into one, two laws which they then refused to answer in any way. 42 This means that without their response, this parliament cannot even hold a debate on changing anything in that law. That's beyond anything. It is taking the task of this Parliament and its strength. That's what we're talking about. And this is all that stands and what the gentleman said, said Mrs. Minister, stands. But that's not it. This should leave opportunities, restore the possibility for Parliament to be able to perform its function, even in this area. Otherwise, he cannot and everything else is simply called and rejected, and this parliament cannot discuss any problem that is not accepted by the Administration of indirect taxation. That's beyond reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21598	Thank you. Who's next to the word? A colleague of Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21599	So let me just contribute a little bit to some of my thinking in Parliament. We know under what conditions this law on indirect taxation has been passed, and a colleague has said well that it is a system of external vessels. It's a sensitive question. Perhaps a little has not been precisely defined in terms of the jurisdiction of this administration. But, please, nowhere is Parliament as the largest legislative body of this country the legislator, delegated, or the Council of Ministers as a legislator of amendments to the law, and that is to be compensated, or by precision, if we take a targeted interpretation, by interpreting what is achieved by this and others, if this Parliament is to give authentic interpretation as a legislator, it can overcome these things. So in this context, I believe, we support that it's a sensitive issue, that it's not going in this shortened procedure, because it would cause certain perhaps far-reaching repercusions that would produce for this sensitive matter. So I'm a supporter of going to the regular procedure as the finance minister suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21600	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21601	Here I am, perhaps a little complicated, and I happen to have an agreement on jurisdiction in the area of indirect taxation in the signing stands the Prime Minister of the Federation, Republika Srpska and in the presence of the Office of the High Representative. Logically, one question that each of us here at this stage needs to ask himself, which is what has more specific weight? Whether an agreement that the Federation and Republika Srpska transfer powers to a state-level area is based on which the law passed by this parliament arises. It's perfectly logical that we only need to focus on the law. The agreement was merely the basis for regulating the area of indirect taxation at the state level by law. Although, of course, any paragraph of this Agreement signed here and especially paragraph 4 may be suspended. 43 I should only remind you, I appreciate that with a regular procedure, that is to say, by considering this bill in the ordinary procedure, it should inter alia stand over the powers of the Management Board. We have already met on several occasions with the obligation to have the opinion of the Management Board of indirect taxation, which does not mean that if it is an opinion, for example. It is either positive or negative that it cannot be locked otherwise, i.e. the decision of this Parliament. But of course we need to ask ourselves how much we appreciate the representatives of the executive bodies of both the government and the state and both entities, because three finance ministers sit on the Board of Directors for the indirect taxation. This is just one reminder and more contribution to going to regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21602	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? Replica Momo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21603	I just want to remind my colleague Azra that this is not about any agreement, not about the ordinary agreement, it's about constitutional matter. It is therefore an agreement on the transfer of competences in accordance with the Constitution and therefore cannot be seen in the way that counterpart Azra views this agreement. It's much more complex and the question is, therefore, constitutional matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21604	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21605	...how much more an explanation. The agreement is the basis for, or transfer of competence to, this law-making agreement, and we have passed that law. So we can't go back to the deal. We can only talk about any changes to the law, appeal to an agreement that can really be stopped legally. I want to say that the agreement that is a matter of our internal relations here has no greater specific weight than the law that this Parliament has brought.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21606	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? There's no one here. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 17, versus 16, abstentioned no one. No entities. 44 You are requesting a re-election. No problem. Prepare to vote, at the request of the SDA club. Vote now. I ask the MPs to vote. - for 16, versus 21, abstentioned no one. So there is no majority, there is no entity majority, so this proposal by Mr. Moranjkić is not accepted to go according to procedure 105, it goes into regular procedure and so we move to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. On 27 December, a colleague, Moranjkić, also submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value with an emergency procedure application under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the motion. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this room, in this house, even the Council of Ministers and others who followed the issue of adopting the VAT law is familiar with my position on VAT and has not changed today. I am for VAT with a model as unique as possible, as simple as possible, but differential rates, with all respect to the advantage of the unique rate that I consider to be more negative than positive reflections in this state and the time in which our country is located, and the consequence is compared to two possible models. I note, if, for these or those reasons, we have given priority, we have voted in a unique standard rate with the burden and practical possibilities of additional modification and additional parallel measures, including, above all, the various social programmes that should mitigate VAT strikes, i.e. the negative connotations of such a VAT model to the standard of citizens, including forced, even economic, non-economic activities, not yet possible and the inability to realise these announced programmes, which, unfortunately, we both have no citizens yet. As a well-intentioned man, not as a politician, I have seen what I have announced so far, although in my life, the promise of the programmes is not covered, and I don't see that it will be included anytime soon. It is easy to see that, among other things, what is the subject of the release in this bill on amending the law is the press, books, textbooks, studies, new technologies in education, it is like a finished product. Afterwards printing and publishing services as services directly related to this finished product and printing paper listed as a re-promatter, which practically surrounds at least 80% of the problems related to the finished products that I have mentioned. I don't think that's covered by social or social programmes. I know that no one in the world is taxing it, on the contrary, and that's why I suggest that this group 45 just expands into the nomenclature of 11 to go to 12 and regulate this problem to get rid of it, that's one kind of benefiting this area. So I suggest this home accepts this amendment. Normally, I went by article 105, in general, that it was fast matter and since it was a quick entry into the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21608	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. So it's about, we're discussing procedure. ministrica Marić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21609	As we have two similar proposals today, obviously on the agenda, I would ask that this proposal, which has now been read, go to the regular procedure as well as the previous one, and precisely because it should still go as hard and unacceptable as it should be through the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21610	Thank you. A kolega, Novaković, Belkić, and Milićević. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21611	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm really in the middle of something right now. Not that I intend to support Mr. Moranjkić's proposal, but I do not understand Mrs. Marić's interpretation that this should go in such a procedure, that it should mean in the ordinary procedure, and the next item of the agenda is the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law supplementing the VAT law under Article 105. In accordance with Article 105. The Council of Ministers suggests the following, it's the same if I'm not mistaken for the same treatment of the press. So why would Mr. Moranjkić go to some sort of waiting order, and the Council of Ministers is going expressly, Mrs. Marić, I think. Or I didn't understand you very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21612	Thank you. Minister Marić's reply. Just a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21613	It is precisely because I ask that we insist on this regular procedure, whatever its name is and ends up in the end of 105, but the procedure which this next legislative procedure has been a procedure which was followed by both the Governing Board and the Council of Ministers' session, and then the Council of Ministers, which in that procedure, proposed to Parliament by 105. So there was a procedure in a way that the Management Board was sitting and the Council of Ministers was sitting. In that sense, it's a regular procedure. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21614	Thank you. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I see Milićević's replica again. Dr. Crescent. The rabbit's replica. Živković's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21615	Mrs. Marić, I have no reason not to believe you, but I would love to, I didn't, and neither did my colleagues from my club, no one got the board's opinion, it wasn't delivered. So with regard to the amendments and additions proposed by the Council of Ministers in the next item of the agenda, and let me tell you, I don't know how the Management Board thinks, but I have here the opinion of the Management Board delivered on 20 December. We had it here where the chairman of the Management Board wrote that the Management Board had already considered certain similar amendments to VAT in that year and decided to reject them all as Parliament did. I would like to stress that the adoption of such amendments would also require an increase in the basic VAT tax rate. I am particularly concerned about the possibility of considering any amendments to the law at this point. I believe that the process of transition from sales tax to VAT is now unconstitutional. Furthermore, potential confusion of taxpayers would most likely lead to a serious loss of income, with negative consequences. Why am I saying this? I had a meeting with Mr. Dikson that day as President of the Commission and he told me that this opinion applies to both the press and then the bill that Mr. Lagumdžija submitted, or Mr. Križanović, I don't know it now, once again, but I am glad that we have it all the time. So I don't see any new moment, and in the same way, I think I'm also treating Mr. Moranjkić's proposal and the Council of Ministers. And anything I would possibly object to him, I mean, it doesn't say I can't object to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21616	I beg you, we are now on the proposal of colleague Moranjkić, do not bind the point. We'll all have a chance to plead. Don't, so we'll ask for everything. Dr. Crescent. Kunić had a replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21617	Well, it's not a replica, but I'd like to clarify one problem here. Namely, they shall be subject to the consent of the Management Board, approval, or opinion. If the opinion is not binding, of course, legally not binding, but if consent is a prior consent to the amendments to the law, then it obliges, so I pray, I don't now remember what the solution is for someone to read from the law, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21618	I beg you, we must get everything that follows the law on the table in order to be able to measure it. That's what you have the right to ask when we get to that agenda point, just as I'm going to ask. But here we are now at the request of fellow Moranjkić. He's looking for Article 47 105 procedure. He gave an explanation. It's a matter of MPs saying what they think of that proposal. We heard the opinion of Minister Marić and let us stay on this agenda point. Did you ask for a replica, my colleague Belkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21619	I asked for a discussion, but now we're relativating it a little bit, so it can come out as anyone wants. You are in some way right not to tie the dots etc. However, now a series of points at the same point we will discuss etc. And it would really be very important for Mrs. Marić to hear the MPs, we have one kind of, so to speak confusion in information. I'm not talking about confusion about suggestions. We're clear on the suggestions. We also accept Mr. Moranjkić's proposal. We also accept the Council of Ministers' proposal, and the SDP's proposals are acceptable because we have advocated such definitions all the time. However, we now have problems. The information's different. Prices rise, they don't rise. Social programs are, they're not. Don't you realize that in some way you're coming into contradiction with your own actions? Now you're going out with a proposal to change the attitudes you said were solid, etc. And now we have come into a situation that really has reason to discuss that agreement a little bit, because it seems that this board of directors in some lines and some entities is giving a positive opinion without a problem, and when opinions are asked either from this Parliament or from clubs, from MPs, etc. They're usually negative. What is the difference between the proposal and Moranjkić and the SDP and the Council of Ministers now so that the Management Board has given its consent, etc. So we'll support from the order they say and by 105 and how any proposal goes, so what comes out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21620	I thank my colleague, Belkić. My colleague Živković is looking for her. Yes, it is. No, he gave up. Mr. Križanović, Novaković, did not answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21621	So I think it would be very bad, as colleagues now say, we have a similar theme in the next three points of the agenda. It would be very bad if we, as Parliament, accepted that we seek justification for whether or not we will discuss something, and that is to say the terms of the debate in this House, an indication of the Management Board for indirect taxation. I'll quote you Article 14(1). It writes – the Committee is relevant for identifying proposals, paying attention to proposals, policies in indirect taxation throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. And the next sentence is: politics is determined by the Council of Ministers. The last position of this member stands – the Committee is responsible for its work to the Council of Ministers. So if we have a reserve, whether or not we adopt something here or not without the Council of Ministers is making sense, but the Council of Ministers is now hiding behind the Direct Taxation Board, I think it's one, agreeing to an inferior position of the Council of Ministers in relation to the body responsible for it. 48 I wanted to discuss this in principle, because I think we're going to get into a trap so that we can't discuss any laws without the fact that the Board of Direct Taxation, which, of course, is not. When it's the law. the existing view is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21622	I thank my colleague Križanović. I'm asking you, so we now have a requirement, the agenda point, that's the ninth item of the agenda. They go similar points. I don't have these dilemmas, at least as an MP, I don't have them. I'll make every statement the way I think I should and don't have a three-hour debate about it right now. What most Parliament has will be bound by it. Which isn't, please. I don't want to combine these points, but to be effective. We're going from point to point. Who else is answering point 9 when it comes to the procedure? Dr. Crescent. Here you go, Kunic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21623	I told you last time not to have a good session. And this time you're simply preventing things from being legally clear, so that they can legally decide according to the law, then we have to clarify this previous question, that's the previous question about all these issues. And you're just going over it. That's the essential question. So if this parliament is obliged to ask for an opinion, that is, any proponent of amending the law to ask for an opinion, it is obliged to ask for an opinion. That opinion can be positive, it can be negative. But it does not oblige this parliament, but it must ask for an opinion. Get an opinion. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21624	And what do you suggest you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21625	Please be nice if anyone can prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21626	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21627	Opinion must be sought. Whether it's going to be positive or not. Anyone who hasn't asked for an opinion can't get into the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21628	That's why I'm saying the vote will show you everything. Opinions are shared. So I can't convince people now on one or the other. So opinions are divisions. Someone thinks they should, someone doesn't think they should. 49 I can only put to vote the procedure of Article 105. Whoever thinks they should have an opinion, and he's gone, will vote against it. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21629	We had an opinion, man. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21630	Yeah. I'm asking you to help me. I'm not predominant. I want to run a session so we don't make a mistake. It's not my goal to make a mistake of any nature. Tell me what you think is the way out. Please, nice. We're at the ninth point of our colleague, Moranjkić. A man is seeking a procedure of article 105. We're not here to discuss the metrics yet. So here's the procedure. And if we adopt the procedure, then we can say if all the documents are there so we can decide. So here we decide the procedure and there is no violation of the law. About the procedure. And when we finish voting on the procedure, we can ask if he has an opinion, if he doesn't have an opinion, if it's necessary and if we need to consider the previous question. So this is where we discuss, at least that's how I understand it. I don't know if I'm right. Comrade Duraković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21631	So in order not to get carried away, I think we're all suffering from amnesia. Based on the opinion of this board of directors, but Mr Dikson's private opinion has been passed and this law has been passed. It was a vote and that's how it went. Now comes the new moments. The Council of Ministers, who has been appointed by that board of directors, has just been consulted by this board of directors, has now come up with a proposal that is contrary to what they represented ten, twenty days ago. Here, Mr. Moranjkić has a sovereign right to give back into the procedure, as did representatives of the SDP and others. So we here need to simplify things, and last time I was saying, no one has, there's what Luj Džordž was saying over Parliament can only be Bog. Well, the board of directors can't tell us what we're going to discuss and what we're going to put in the process. That's what I mean nonses. Even so, if we are referring to Novaković, it has been delivered, here is a date, just before Milicevic read it. So, please, if the minister is looking for the next point on the same issue, according to Article 105, how come we are now in a dilemma not to put it on Moranjkić's proposal. I mean, it's real, then I don't know what, not to insult. Please put in the procedure for us to vote. I read it, and I heard Moranjkićev's proposal, and I heard what the Council of Ministers' proposal was like. Moranjkic's proposal is more complete, more correct, covering what is essential. The Council of Ministers wants to fool the public again, because this final product releases VAT, but not what's important, it's like root paper and that's all the books, newspapers, readings, etc. etc. etc. 50 Then why don't you accept that we go to Moranjkićev's first emergency room, and then we'll commit to one and the other and the third proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21632	Thank you. We have to go dot by point. Dr. Crescent. Kunić has, then Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21633	What am I saying? What I'm saying is that no one contests Mr. Morankić's good intentions and that no, I voted for a differentiated rate. But let me answer to Mr. Duraković. Respect the right you created yourself. This Parliament passed that law. It is therefore not above this parliament. But Parliament has passed this law and this law obliges Parliament the same as you and me and each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21634	Step away from the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21635	Me, we need to change the law. Well, last time we realized it was the law that needs to be changed. So that's a different story.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21636	Please don't replicate it right now. Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. I'm calling on Branka, the secretary to read a member of the law I don't have, and I'm not convinced it's all like that. Here you go. We have to have an interpretation of the law. What do we do? To read a member of the law to make sure that's not the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21637	Since this issue of relations between Parliament and the Directorate for Direct Taxation appears frequently in terms of establishing a bill rather than preparing a proposal, I will take the opportunity, since I have a clear opinion on this issue to read to you Article 14 of the law which is often controversial here in Parliament. Article 14 of the Law reads - The Committee is in charge, so it is about the Board of Direct Taxation, the establishment of a policy proposal in indirect taxation or implementation throughout BiH, the policy is determined by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Next point. Informing the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the Government of the Federation of Republika Srpska and the District on implementation policy regarding indirect taxes and public income implications to facilitate the preparation of fiscally responsible budgets. 51 Under the 3rd definition of the strategic objectives of the Administration in the assessment and assessment of the effectiveness of the Administration in achieving these objectives, the approval of the draft budget of the Management Board, the approval of the annual work plan and the internal organisation regulation adopted by the Director in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 of the Law, the adoption of decisions on disputed cases, etc. and all other tasks established by law. Article 2 The Committee shall be responsible for the launch of the preparation, for the launch of preparations, for the legislative rules relating to indirect taxation and their amendments, including legal provisions on tax rates and structures, if it considers that this is necessary in order to implement this law. The Committee shall be responsible for the adoption of the rules necessary for the implementation of the activities referred to in this Article. The Committee shall adopt, on a proposal from the Director, instructions to provide for information, or documents deemed to be official secrecy, etc. So what can be concluded from this, if I may make my comment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21638	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21639	It is one thing to lead politics in one area, to establish proposals, but not to establish proposals for Parliament. The mandated promoter in Parliament is regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and is explicit. So the proposer of any regulation, so there is not something in the Rules of Procedure, any exception, but has definitely a provision that the motioner may be the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, any MP and commission. It's an explicit provision. We don't have an explicit provision in the Rules of Procedure that would show us that we are obliged, when we get a proposal from another promoter to ask for some particular opinion. We have a provision in Article 139(a) of the Rules of Procedure that tells us, but we can only do that if the regulation goes into regular procedure, that the Council of Ministers can give opinions on proposals that are not proposed. You got it. It is a member of 139, and we are taking the opportunity in Parliament in the Secretariat that when we have completed these procedures we are delivering all the proposals to the Council of Ministers for the purpose of giving an opinion. That's my opinion on this problem. I think you could have followed me enough, and I'm ready to copy the law for you, if that's any kind of problem. It is in force and is applied as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21640	I would like to thank my colleague, Branka, for the secretary of the House of Representatives. The word was requested by Minister Marić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21641	I'm asking you to understand why I'm asking this to go back to the regular procedure. I think this is a real problem for the whole country. And that's why that 52 law was passed the way it was passed. The regular procedure would mean that it would be returned to the Council of Ministers, and then the Council of Ministers would, of course, obtain that position of the board of directors, which, in this case, is binding on the Council of Ministers because the board of directors was made and established so that those sitting in it were seated, and therefore we wanted and intended to continue to remain faithful to that agreement under which we have committed ourselves through law to entities that we will work together to build a new fiscal system in the country, while otherwise it does not determine some more important acts than this law. So for now, we're building this fiscal system together in a way that we're still deciding on this board of directors, and that really all these proposals, we're trying to look at it more seriously and take this as seriously as possible. The attitude that ultimately concerns the whole country. And that is why we always ask that these laws return to regular procedure so that everyone can meet them because of all matters, not just the Council of Ministers and not just the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21642	Thank you. Is anyone still answering for a hearing? Nobody's answering. Please conclude the debate. We are going to declare procedure 105th at the request of fellow Members Moranjkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 12, versus 19, abstention 2. There's no entity majority. There's no total majority. So this proposal goes into regular procedure. Thank you. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2005 submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You got this material. I'm opening an emergency request dispute. Who's answering for a word? 45 minutes break on behalf of the SDA Club. I'm taking a break for 45 minutes. Let's get back to work. So we are, please, representatives of the service to speak with the MPs at break time. I'm asking you to be on time. Yeah, it's becoming a dangerous approach. 53 We move to the 10th point of the agenda, so that's Ad.10. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2005 submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You got this material. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who's answering for a word? Dušanka Majkić, please. Dušanka Majkić answered her word. Please don't throw it away right now, ask for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21643	It is truly unusual that now that we are discussing this item of the agenda there is no one from the Council of Ministers and this speaks of the state that is in place in this House and is ruling in this country. We are witnessing that so far there have been countless good attempts to amend the Value Added Tax Act. The Council of Ministers' arguments were that this would undermine the start of implementation of the Tax Act on additional value, so that the change of any Zakaon would imply the withdrawal of a large number of other amendments, in order to actually open the Pandora's box of why the Council of Ministers could not take responsibility. That's what we're told. And that there's no change in the subject. And indeed in the principle of that attitude, almost nothing could be added because this, if this request hadn't arrived. It is truly amazing that 30.12. is coming up with a proposal to amend this law. So the Council of Ministers says, or feels that it is vital to release brochures of magazines, daily weekly newspapers, and does not consider it vital to release VAT bread, milk and other provisions of life, medicines and others. Worse still, the matter is related to the finance minister's statement that the decision is supported by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. I just called the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska and received information that Ms. Minister was not present at the session, and Mr. Kudić, who was a member of the Management Board, did not vote for this decision, and she took a written stand to disagree and to support, in that case, all those who consider it to be bread, milk, medicines and other more necessary freedoms than what is in our proposal today. That's why we in SNSD can't accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21644	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Who's next to the word? A colleague, Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21645	I thank Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that the proposal of the Council of Ministers reflects non-disciplinement when it comes to tax rates issues, i.e. VAT releases, or the list of zero tax rates. 54 We were just witnesses to a letter she sent, which was sent by the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation, which, when written, meant in the first half of December of the month was acceptable to the Council of Ministers, and not long after that, the Council of Ministers came up with a law that provides for the release of certain products, or their classification in a zero rate. I have to say that I find it a much more correct SDP proposal that, if anything else, has placed a wide range of products that in principle are far more reducing the impact of VAT on that most sensitive part of society. Where there's practically a social problem, where, unfortunately, we don't have the resources for social programs. In this regard, it might be more correct for the Council of Ministers to have put this product in place now, asked the Management Board for consent, and thus made it possible for those shortcomings resulting from the failure to adopt the budget at all levels to be compensated through this zero rate. We don't have that, we don't have that kind of proposal here. For these reasons, SDS will not support the procedure of the law, amending the Tax Act on additional value, and we believe that this law should go into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21646	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Here you go. He's a friend of the Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21647	Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Council of Ministers' behaviour shows, or proves that they don't essentially know what they're doing, or they won't do it on purpose. It is unserious to go with one proposal, to go with one proposal, to go with another proposal afterwards, etc. At the meeting of December 21st, I proposed to the Council of Ministers, which can be done without Parliament, to freeze the prices of all basic life supplies, and to subsidise 50 million of the producers that would have been somehow damaged or partially damaged for extra profit. Such insecureness does not allow me to have human morality, nor business experience to support and voter against any change already passed law, no matter how difficult it is. It will be difficult for a citizen, a man and a man in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is in some way the price of setting up a state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21648	Thank you. Who's on the phone? The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21649	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as I can tell, we're not going to the measurements right now, but we're talking about procedure. I went out to say, first of all, it's not true that the Council of Ministers has strayed from our draft policy that we have one rate of 17% without a zero rate. What you're talking about right now is not a zero rate. It's an exception, and there's a huge difference between a zero rate and an exception. So we made it clear when we proposed that you adopt a law with one rate of 17% that in the period until we introduced a VAT, we would do an analysis of what it would do by introducing a 17% rate and what categories of citizens and what categories of business entities. And right away, we said about the basic life supplies of the gatherings we're going to resuscitate the social funds and we have social funds and there's no story here about the Council of Ministers' proposal and as Mr. Novaković mentions the SDP proposal. The Council of Ministers' proposal is to stay at one rate, to have only an exemption, and the SDP proposes a zero rate. On the other hand, I would ask that you still vote by emergency procedure, since it is a very short text with a precise explanation and since it is still a health care activity that simply cannot wait for any vote on the exemption to go after the regular procedure. We make it clear, and I'll say that, Mr. Chairman, probably when, if we get a chance to talk about the measure of things. So in all the analyses, we have clearly and precisely established in all the discussions that publishing activities, when we talk about health care activities, I think about everything that belongs to publishing activities has a huge problem with the introduction of VAT, given that we have publishing activities in the surrounding countries, in countries with which we have a free trade agreement, etc. And that our healers, by introducing VAT, will indeed be drastically damaged. We don't have any social funds for them. For them, we don't have any funds inside entity and cantonal budgets to bring them back to them. Therefore, I ask you not to observe this together with basic provisions of life, and by the way, basic provisions of life are at this stage the introduction of VAT at a very mild level of collection and the percentage of purchases in 600 places followed by our statistical agency in the first 15 days is on average only 6%. Here, I don't want to be based on the papers, but you have clearly here bakeries returned the prices. So we shouldn't discuss our own discussions and our own possible, especially those for drastic changes in the Value Added Tax Act, one environment that is being managed by the authorities and that will certainly lead in February and March of this month to absolute calming of the situation, because today we actually have a large number of cases that those dealing with trade in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not sufficiently familiar with the complete VAT process and it needs one period of time. The fact is that basic life supplies have not collected at all to the point that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot bear it. Those who can't stand it are socially endangered categories. For them, we have social funds, and that is all the cost-effective policy that even this parliament has adopted. And let me tell you, the story of innocuousness is a story that, which I don't want to go into, because I don't want to bring down the heights of those MPs who, if nothing about this rhetoric is about the Council of Ministers' relationship, don't use it, and those who use it, it's probably an honor and it's the greatest that they can rhetorically get out of their education. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21650	Thank you. A colleague of Živković. So Dušanka Majkić replica, then replica Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21651	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, may be a violation of the Rules of Procedure or anything else-- the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers warned us not to enter into the measure of this issue, because we are still discussing the procedure, and then he himself falls into the trap and here talks about the scale and more political, and he was giving his position than what he was supposed to answer here, and that we should even discuss the procedure whether and if he has here to write that one of the members of the RS in the Management Board voted in a decision, whether the minister meant the RS finance vote in connection with the law amendment request. I'll remind you how to vote and quorum, Article 19. The Management Board says the Committee makes decisions by consensus. In the case of decisions on other indirect taxes, including the rates and structures of such obligations, a simple majority of the members of the Management Board's votes are required, including the votes of the RS Finance Minister and the Federation. This voting process also applies to any exception decision, that is what you are asking of, or change in indirect tax rates. If you have that decision, give us a table to discuss the procedure, if you don't have to vote for the rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21652	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21653	Similarly, I wanted to ask the question myself, but since we know there is no decision of the board of directors this House has only two options, or let's see the decision that the minister just claimed to have, or take this point off the agenda now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21654	My colleague, let's just finish the replicas if he can preside. It's a streamer. If there's anything to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21655	The replica to Mr. Terzić only in that I know exactly what I'm saying and that unlike him who's worked all his life in the sphere of budget division I've worked and I work in the field of creation and I know well what it means for printing, or publishing industry what it means, but also, Mr. Terzić, you have to understand that you have under number one to worry about 800 thousand socially endangered and number two, which you don't worry about when you make free imports of meat? Why don't you worry about other structures? All of a sudden, there's a little bit of indifference to the publishers. How and why do you know that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21656	Thank you. Yeah, wait a minute, they're replicas, they're replicas so you can answer that. I'd like to ask you not to go out too often. 57 dakle Novaković, Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21657	I just want you to be careful whether you want to or not, of course we can't look at it by conserving that we have the agenda and the next point, and that's the law that SDP suggested. So we can't isolate any deviation from the rates we've established. So a very ugly message would be today that we could send if we freed the VAT publishing activity, and we're not some other. A team earlier, a team before social programmes for failing to adopt entity budgets are available to those for whom they are intended. So we have a situation that there are intended funds for social programs that no one can use. And for these reasons, so clearly and for these reasons, I and the SDS Club are against this law. I must say that I will also be against the next law, so also against the next law for reasons and motives that I will explain when it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21658	kolegica Milićević, do you have a need for replication?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21659	Thank you, Chairman, so I am sorry that the Council of Ministers did not take advantage of the opportunity when it was a break to get that opinion from the Management Board so that we could face this opinion and this opinion that I have read since 20 December. I have to really do it again, especially me, says the possibility of any amendments to the law. At this point in my opinion, the process of moving from tax to VAT is now unstoppable. Furthermore, potential confusion of taxpayers would most likely lead to serious loss of income and have negative consequences. I'm saying this for a reason until I get a new opinion, this is relevant to me. Mr. Dikson signed. It's delivered to all the institutions, all the Members' clubs. And second of all, if we're two, I'm going to allow myself to get some kind of cool opinion based on those two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21660	Thank you. More replicas of counterpart Moranjkić, then the chairman of Terzić. Aza asked for a discussion, right? Replica, we'll finish the replicas. I'm sorry. Please chair for patience a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know what kind of joke I'm in or what institution I'm in. From this I see that really in this room are parts of this country are institutionally different values. Please nice, just before, so before this point was the same law that claims, and that is well said Mr. Duraković is more complete than this law. And simply by blowing off the South or the Northman he took that law as a law that had no need and 58 senses to be brought into this palmum. So what are we talking about? Suddenly, here you see now there's another value of the print that x suggests, there's a third value of the print that y and a fourth value of some kind of cet, or vuz. I can't accept it, I'll go easy on the shallows. I won't, like my colleagues said. If it's the law, I've claimed what Mr. Chairman said isn't covered by social tandars, mandars, up, down, everything was deaf in this room. The Minister claimed what she was saying, what you heard. Now all of a sudden, the Minister and the Council of Ministers have a completely different opinion. I really can't take it and accept it. We need someone to come out in this House and say, gentlemen, that you know the Council of Ministers' MPs and those who participate have a order of values. MPs from that group and that group are a) MPs b, c, d, and f. If what is true, I do not claim that it is, I was on the contrary and I was invited before the Council of Ministers to propose it, and I suggested it more fully, where I also spoke about the repromaterial, where I spoke about the services they are following and what the product is finished. Now all of a sudden, the finished product is coming out, and I don't see, all of a sudden, another interpretation of the same group of people by the same. If that's the case, then we really need to do something else here in this House and act differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21662	Thank you. More replicas, Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, then the chairman of Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21663	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21664	And it's not a replica, it's a discussion. Then the chairman of Terzić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21665	I need from Mr. Honorable Representative Moranjkić. So this is not about institutional or any other person who has the right and the disability to propose. But there is a procedure, Mr. Moranjkić, and I think you need two more mandates to understand. You can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21666	away from Replica's microphone. Please don't let anyone who doesn't even understand their business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21667	Please don't insult the messengers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21668	Insulting the messenger in the benches. Don't leave the O.R., Mr. Chairman. I know this matter better than you do, and don't be polite for years. You're in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21669	What did I tell you? 59
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21670	You told me nicely, I understand, if you think as you did to Mr. Špirić last time you told some MPs here that they were ignorant. It's me, I don't belong to that group. Sir, read the law I'm under. They're insults.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21671	Please, Mr. Moranjkić. I'm sorry if I offended you, but it wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21672	I don't need it, you need five terms to see what you need to do, and I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21673	So, Mr. Moranjkić, you've given a law that changes something in the system of indirect taxes, and you want it to go away and vote in this house without getting the consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21674	Speaks immediately, away from the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21675	Just a little bit, please, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21676	And the difference between you and me is two. The first thing I don't interrupt when you're talking and I'm not trying to scare you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21677	But I'm not insulting you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21678	A little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21679	The first is the difference, and the second is that we, as the Council of Ministers, have implemented the procedure and we have been given the consent of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21680	Detected from microphone 60
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21681	Please, Mr. Moranjkić, let me finish. So the first proposal tabled by the Council of Ministers was just before Mr. Moranjkić sent it into the procedure, he was just referring to the exemption of the finished product and the exemption for re-promatter. We sent this to Parliament and we sent it to the Directorate for indirect taxation. Since we did not receive an answer from the Directorate for Indirect Taxation at the last session of Parliament, we did not even put this in the procedure and was not put on the agenda, because we did not have the opinions of the Management Board, the Executive Board of indirect taxation. Afterwards, we received the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board which is here with me where it is said that the Management for, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board supports the release of the final product, but does not support the release of the repromaterials because it did not receive the consent of entity ministries, in fact entity representatives in the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. For this reason, we had to reduce our proposal to the Council of Ministers, based on the opinion of the Management Board of Upava for indirect taxation, and today you have a reduced proposal where you only have a finished product. And please, please, this isn't just about the papers. This is about complete publishing activity and we have obtained the consent of the Board of Directors of the Direct Taxation Board for this project and for this amendment of the law, and I have it written by the President of the Management Board of Mr. Đoli Dikson. One thing. The second thing is the Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, for which we have obtained the consent of the Indirect Taxation Board, does not speak, is not contained only from one member and is not just a story, as it is trying to push here the Council of Ministers' relations, possibly Terzić towards the newspaper. So first, it's a complete publishing activity. But another member for you coming from the economy is just talking about the economy and he's talking about business entities right now, and I don't understand that you can split a package like this into a newspaper and forget that another member is actually the key to this legal project proposed by the Council of Ministers. It is said here that the 72nd member of the Law on indirect taxation is deleted. And what does that mean for those who create the budget, not spend what Terzić does all the time. That means, Your Honor, we've given up our commitment to no return to business people. That means we've figured it out, and we've talked all the time, we're going to do an analysis, and we're going to react the way it's best for citizens and business people. So we realized that we are bringing firms into a position of possible indifference, that banks will profit the most from it and that in fact the profit from VAT introduction will go to banks that don't deserve it, because they don't follow the business world in Bosnia and Herzegovina enough. This Article 2 speaks of the annulment of the original legal provision that a year will be no return. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board ordered the Director of the Directorate to make a return in time in which the business operator and the business person reported and paid the tax. It's the policy of this council of ministers and no one's been talking about this for two months, no one's talking about this key thing. So it's not just about the newspapers, it's about the full business environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the second member now allows the board's decision and the directive to the director of the Direct Taxation Board to have a business man entitled to return and that he will not wait a year as said in this first phase. 61 On the other hand, I must say that the meetings of the Management Board of indirect taxation are recorded and that this is without any problems as a stenogram to review. I am responsible for saying that all members of the Board of Directors of the Direct Taxation Board have given their consent to the exemption, so don't talk about a zero rate, Mr. Novaković, this is an exception. We have 11 exceptions under the law and the Council of Ministers is asking only to make this one, twelveth exception. We're not talking about a zero rate. So all the members in one way or another gave their consent. Not to interrupt the two meetings of the Management Board that treated this matter, but if you ask for the minister of finance of Republika Srpska, the finance minister of the Republic of Srspska has made clear through the esteemed Mr. Kudić, and personally said he will support the option for which he will be the finance minister, for which he has been given the written consent of the Federation Minister of Finance, Mr. Vranjkić. In the end, Mr Vranjkić sent in writing to accept only the exemption of the final product, not to accept the exemption for paper, which is absolutely unclear to me for which reasons this was done and I think it is the real help and the only help to the publishers to get rid of them, to free themselves, to exempt the VAT from the paper, but it means this fact and this consent of the Management Board I have with me. It's signed by Mr. Đoli Dikson. It came, in fact, to the Council of Ministers on 28.12., on 29.12., the Council of Ministers held a session, changed, reduced Article 1 for the exemption, expelled an exemption for which we did not receive consent, an exemption for re-promaterials and sent the next day to parliamentary procedure. So the answer to MP Majkić is that the Council of Ministers did not play, but it was 30th, and we did not aim for 30th to send it, but we could not go any faster because we did not have the agreement of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and we had to hold a session again after consent to reduce our legal proposal that you now have in front of you. So you don't vote today and it's not true that this is a matter of how some of you like to say the Council of Ministers' relationship to the paper. This is a relationship to the publishing activity that has proved to be a problem in another member’s relationship with all business entities that would come into an unequivocal position and come in a position to ask for creditors from banks in order to keep the liquidity if they were not returned. Today, today is the decision of the Management Board of indirect taxation that each business entity has the right to say in its statement that it does not want to return, but that it considers it a subscription for next month, but means we do not, if you adopt such a law, we will not have a legal ban on return except for export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21682	Thank you. I'd just beg for patience and a little quiet. So everyone's gonna get a chance to say what they're thinking. I can tell that to one decent dictionary that you're not offended. I would ask the chairman if we MPs could, if we have the right to receive a decision from the board of directors, so if you have to distribute it to cut these questions short. Some of them are directly related to the Committee's decision and I'm surprised we didn't get it in favor. So I'd like to ask you to give the service to copy and share. We'll avoid at least part of unnecessary questions, and now here's the service, here's what we have to copy, divide. So the replica was co-worker Potočnik, co-worker Moranjkić and Dušanka Majkić and Živković. Here's my colleague Potočnik, may I ask you, my colleague Živković says it's no big deal. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21683	The Honorable Chairman, I believe I could speed up this process a little bit. In fact, in a brief conversation with Mr. Čudić in a written address from Republika Srpska's Finance Minister, we have an open suspicion of what Mr. Terzić was saying and we believe that it means voting, or Article 19. The law is this way of saying wrongly done and it's broken and we can't continue the discussion until we get that decision and I'm looking here at Club SNSD's break of 5, 10 minutes as long as it takes for us to get that decision and on the basis of it further discussion. Because this barren discussion doesn't lead to anything, we're just going to fight for nothing. Give me 10 minutes to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21684	I'm asking you, colleague Živković, I'm asking you not to take a break for 10 minutes. He's still got people on the line. A decision will be divided and we will try it
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21685	There may be no need for replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21686	Yours may be tied to it, from other colleagues it may not be. Those Who Think
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21687	Well, I'd like a 10-minute break, if the rest of you agree. Let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21688	A break of 10 minutes on behalf of the SNSD Club, but what can I do to take a break? But I'm asking you not to step back. Break 10 minutes and move on. When I give you 10 minutes, you stay for an hour. The right to the replica was sought by counterpart Potočnik and co-worker Moranjkić. [[PAUZA]] You asked for a break to read the materials. We got the materials. Is there any need to explain them?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21689	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21690	Here you go. He was looking for a colleague of Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21691	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we've got this piece of paper. For me and the SNSD Club, I am simply not in line with article 19 on how to vote in the Management Board. A sentence that is crucial here says that I would also like to point out 63 that Mrs Svjetlana Cenić, the minister of Republika Srpska's finance, said she would support this proposal on condition that it is supported by the federal finance minister. For us, it is not in accordance with this law, and we will not be able to support the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21692	Thank you. He had the replica, Ljiljana please, Potočnik and Moranjkić before the break. Let's go, you'll all get the right word. Here you go, fellow Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21693	Thank you. Just a few things. As for the return within 60 days, it is not any sadistic state towards the businessmen. It's perfectly normal all over the world. So don't let us wave it to the businessmen in front of their heads to say so. And as for the sensitivity to businesses, that is, to the economy, you only show that sensitivity to one segment. And the second thing, companies that have less than 12 times a year will get into liquidity problems and the bank will make money, and if this country were the way it should be, then at least with banks, it would make a deal to subsidise interest in order to allow healthy and normal businesses not to get into liquidity problems and not to fail. It's perfectly normal for those unhealthy companies and those who are on the machinery of smuggling to fail. So, Mr. Terzić, you need to get to know a little bit more about the subject you're talking about. I understand that you can't know everything as well as I can't know everything, but that's why you have counselors and consult with them, and don't talk about some things casually.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21694	Thank you. So, colleague Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21695	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to say for a little while that what was spoken to this House as Santa Claus coming to help the economy, the Santa Claus who came to help certain branches of these and those reasons was already seen in these benches. To remind me of the memory and memory of my fellow MPs, that such a change took place in September which was not accepted where it was tried, under the supposed signs it can now say take care of the economy. So giving a lecture on this topic here is a really bad story. As such, I cannot normally accept as a man, nor as an MP, especially as the law, the bill that I have submitted, which went right ahead of this, was more complicated, was more well-intentioned than this, and I do not see the reasons, I have passed through the procedure and as much as you remember, let's give me back my memory, if I forgot about these half-hours, I did not find anyone who was speaking for and against it, and I am putting it in a position that I am experiencing in these benches and I pray for all time until I'm here that more of such rhetoric, at least I am not being referred to, because I claim that I am doing consciously and 64 well-intensibly in this House, that every word I am trying to measure, that it has my place, and that I do not allow anyone, and I do not allow any more of any other level to use the speaker of this Parliament and to guide me. So I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that I do not intervene, because sometimes I have such an organic position, which is that I, I have a problem with sugar, am exploding you to intervene when you feel it, which is one of your parts of the jobs, to protect the dignity of the MPs in these benches from such insults, attacks and insults. Please, I'm asking you to do it, and I think I'll get it from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21696	In any case, I thank and recommend, keep your health, it's a difficult parliamentary life. Discussions are sometimes bile and vulnerabilities. I can't ban everyone when he's talking part-time and talking about himself. Here I am asking you to choose words for each other. Mrs. Milićević came forward, so counterpart Sipović, all the replicas. Azra for discussion as far as I know. And you need a replica. Okay. My Kolegice Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21697	Mrs. Hadžiahmetović answered, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21698	No, you don't have to finish your line, since you said it short.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21699	You'll see now. Thank you. I'm actually saying that what Mr. Chairman means before we said and the paper that we got just confirms what we said. This paper is older than the paper I read. So earlier, the sessions we've received from Mr. Dikson since December 20th are listed, and here are called to the sessions held by the narrators. That's one thing. Secondly, the facts show that such a proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Act on additional value was not the subject of the Board's discussion. The Management Board considered the proposal to amend and supplement the Law which included reproductive material. Therefore, this shape was not on the board of directors. Point 72 to be deleted, against whom I have nothing, which no normal here has ever been the subject of a break-up on the board of directors, and should be and easily pass. And I find it inappropriate that in one package we have two members, one that is this little bit odd and a little harder passage and this article 72 for which there was no problem in getting consent, and we don't have it. So here it's questionable, so if we cross these two opinions, we're going to need another super opinion from the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21700	Thank you. If I may ask the chairman, then there will be more questions, so that you do not answer often. 65 Replica Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21701	Since the replicas have been discussed so far, my discussion will be a replica. I really needed to say it to the chairman, because I don't know what has more specific weight here than how we treat these structures. I have to rephrase here now, first of all, that I am very surprised by the prime minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the resolution minister and all the other ministers who have respected one paper as valid which is against the legal, anti-constitutional. I think, in my contents. I have to really say this because I simply can't be surprised that this could have been delivered to us, especially to be delivered to the Council of Ministers who consider it relevant paper. Why am I saying that? Please take a look at these items. Point 2 says. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Liberation will be applied if this parliament changes the law. On no ad hoc basis, he still says so on the proposal of a resolute and entity minister. I'm now wondering why we're even talking about any kind of release, because it's enough for the entity ministry to propose and the Management Board to approve and apply it. Which means that anyone else should propose, vote, etc. that it is not applicable unless it is in accordance with this procedure. This is against legal procedures. And the third point says, on the condition, that here is the condition that there will be no additional tax exemption on extra value. So we need to put an end to any story of any future tax exemption today, etc. The sledeći thing I know, I'm surprised at the Council of Ministers in which this parliament passed the law and gave him the authority to run the tax policy. In the Law on indirect taxation, the Council of Ministers is the one leading the tax policy. Neither the entity ministers, nor the management nor we are here, we are here as hostages of any consent whether orally Mrs Cenić gave consent if Vrankić agrees. I really can't, I mean here to be surprised at you. Tax policy is yours. Everyone else is in your position. That's what that absurd agreement is about, between the two entity governments before the law was passed, the agreement gave you that authority. That's really one thing, one thing that makes me start with a replica. And second, I'm going to have a real discussion right now. When the chairman discussed it earlier, he mentioned 0% and a tax exemption. I'll remind you here that we've already been on several occasions, not specifically, not on specific products at least 5-6 times, here's to correct me by SDP as a club or individually we've had proposals for a zero rate or a release, etc. I'm asking you all here now I know that fellow Špirić knows that, but believe me, I'm not sure that we all know here in the O.R., including the Council of Ministers, which is the difference between zero and tax exemption. If you need a colleague, Špirić, here I will not explain, let your colleague Špirić explain to you, but we have rejected some proposals because zero and the Council of Ministers has asked that it be rejected because it is zero, so that 30 or 31 will enter parliamentary 12. It's not zero, it's a release. 66 Furthermore, when we are discussing the emergency procedure, and I suppose that's the case with most colleagues and colleagues in this House, I always look at the reasons for the adoption to determine whether the matter is so urgent or not. And she was thrilled here in the arguments that stand, which the Council of Ministers gave us. For example. point 1 states that in the current transport tax system, products from the field of publishing etc. a According to the Act on Value Added to these products, VAT would be accounted for in the amount of 17 which would significantly jeopardise the business of the company in this business branch. It means that the Council of Ministers has analysed in detail what business branches are, or which companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina are significantly threatened by the introduction of a 17% VAT or possibly less, so I will ask you if we can get this analysis, because it is also important if this paper that we just got put in an ad act, because it says there will be no additional VAT release. So let's see which companies are at risk, or which business branch is particularly threatened by the introduction of VAT. Furthermore, point 2 says that economic activities fall within the activities of particular social interest, play an important role. I really know that they are of particular social interest, they play a really important role, but if we take into account again that there is no more release from VAT, then I wonder if it's really just publishing a special social interest that plays an important role and that there is absolutely nothing more special and nothing more plays a particularly important role. I really don't know how to get out of this for one simple reason that I appreciate that in the past eight or nine months since we adopted the Law on indirect taxation, we've given enough time for everyone to analyze who is potentially at risk, who will eventually be stimulated by the introduction, or by moving on to a new system of indirect taxation and that with a date of 30.12 in one calendar year, which in all normal countries indicates that something of particular importance is something. We're getting a proposal like this, and today it's absurd against the law, but I must say, I must say, even against constitutional reasoning. Here you can find the elements for both of us. However, if we have in mind that it is necessary, in accordance with our law, to have the opinion of the Direct Taxation Authority that does not oblige us, I ask you to put this ad act. Not to criticize Mr. Đoli Dikson, because I want to believe this is an unfortunate translation. I can't believe it could have been written here that the releases would have been applied on ad hoc basis with the approval of the Management Board, and on the proposal of the Resolute Entity Ministry. If this is really how I ask you to take off the agenda all points relating to amendments to the Law on an indirect taxation system.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21702	I thank Dr. Hadžiahmetović. A colleague, Sipović, asked for a replica or a discussion, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21703	Indeed, the legislator of amending this law by emergency procedure, since he submitted the proposal, should respect the criticism of certain MPs, which is why this was not delivered with the proposal. I mean, it's really a mistake in the procedure. And that should be accepted by criticism. Perhaps that 67 we have received this material differently would the discussion be, there would be no such fire, mutual insult or perhaps esteeming the dignity of every MP of this representative as I appreciate myself as a man, because I have this mandate, we must also appreciate our council of ministers and its chairman. I really understand, I'm delighted with certain suggestions, and I'd like to present my own judgment. The law on additional value tax is a very specific law in which it is undeniable, we must accept it by an active international community, by all segments. Here, please, the bottom line is who this document is sent to and who needs to give the green light and who needs to give consent. And in that context, we need to think. What am I doing here for a short procedure? For this reason only for the simple reason that the Council of Ministers has special responsibility for implementing this law and policy in this area. And in a further procedure, MPs, or MPs of this respected home, will make their views known. In this context, I believe and should give the Council of Ministers and a special responsibility to this Parliament to seek certain conclusions which further inspired the Council of Ministers to this amendment and thus to bind the responsibility of the Council of Ministers as Government, the executive body of this Parliament, and which will also produce my further observations to the promoter, which is not a little bit broader as the chairman explained. Such dry information gives some confusion to MPs, or MPs, and then a particular discussion develops. The proposer headed by the chairman must accept this distinguished criticism, and my proposal is to provide the proponent, the government, with Parliament to declare the shortened procedure for amending this law. Probably, let's be honest, these international factors probably gave the green light. They had their deeper reasons for giving the green light. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21704	Thank you. A colleague, Križanović, answered for a word. There's no sign-up after Križanović, believe me. But here's Jahić, Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, two hours ago, we spent one half hour here to be quoted by Mrs. Todorović as a certain article of the law relating to the status of the Management Board of indirect taxation extended to some of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure. And we fall into one trap again, arguing in one for me with irrelevant paper... We must indeed, this Parliament must be kept clean. Is there a mythic body, an institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is above the Council of Ministers and Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I cleared it up for myself a long time ago and I say no. Here it essentially refers to whether the Council of Ministers will finally assume political, economic and any other responsibility to lead the country's economy, to run at least tax policy, here. Will he or won't he? Here is the choice of knowingly one easy position by hiding behind the authority of a certain Mr. Đoli Dikson whom we have never heard of saying anything too much in this House. And according to that, as long as we don't clear up whether we're going to play paper or whether that minister or one, where we're going to work in accordance with our rules of procedure and respect the argument of the 68 Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers, not to come with the papers of the Department of Direct Taxation, but to say, we stand behind this, while we lead this country because we are its executive power, will be this correct brother, loud and clear, without any hiding. Now that's what we need to say today, whether the Council of Ministers insists and what the arguments are, etc. Let's not mention this board for, this board of directors of indirect taxation. I don't think he's going anywhere, it's just making us complicated and bringing us back to the side problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21706	Thank you. A colleague, Jahić, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr. Novaković, I'm going to ask which agenda points are we on? It's procedure. Is this new story not about the procedure? We've been this for a long and long time. But it seems to me today that we're going to commit ourselves in terms of not who's talking, but who's talking, and I think we should really do it as soon as possible, if we can solve this voting problem that we're going to go to the vote on this article 105th, or if the Minister's Council is going to do it in another position, let it define, because we're going to go into a wide story. Because you see, everyone has their own opinions, we don't have some interpretation that's relevant. They're different attitudes. So the fact is that the Council of Ministers sent a letter to the board of directors, the fact is that the board of directors responded, now the chairman of the Board of Directors is responding, now someone would like to have a signature and entity ministers. It may also be that the answer is not what it should be, but it is not a matter of the Council of Ministers, it is a matter of the Management Board, etc. Normally that opens up some other stuff. The second is consent or opinion, it's an opinion, so we said that opinion can be negative, but it's important that it is an opinion. And if we have a negative opinion we can discuss normally that's what it says and someone's interpreting it this way, someone's interpreting it that way. Obviously, then, we have a negative opinion we can discuss normally. That's what it says, someone interprets it this way, someone interprets it that way. So obviously we have different attitudes and we're going, I think we're harassing ourselves, and here's the public and the people who listen to us about the procedure. But I would like, even though here today some kind of negative atmosphere about this, I see that and one extremely, extremely good side, the thing today as far as this VAT is concerned. I'm gonna make a little joke. I think it's January 16th today. You know that someone here on January 1st was supposed to have a flood. The flood was to take place and there should have been an enermous price collection, criminals, chaos, atomic bombs, floods, etc. There's no such thing. There's no such thing. Please, Mr. Bešlagić, don't get it, don't get it. In accordance with VAT. So I know now that some people don't have this story, because by December 31st, they're gonna be talking chaos. She's going to perform, please, please, so by December 31st, it was a story of chaos. There's going to be an enermizing price. They wished, feared the public, caused unrest. Now there's not much of it. So the price rise is in the way it was intended. Even in some segments we have a price reduction. It is characteristic that products of foreign origin have been more collected than domestically, thus strengthening and improving domestic production. So we have a lot of visible positive effects of VAT introduction. 69 E until December 31st we talked about not having to, and now that we can't talk about it, because obviously it's not, we're on our way to this story. Well, if I mean, we're not all harassing each other, it'd be good, so here's what I suggest. Otherwise, here's the club SDA will support it by procedure 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21708	Thank you. I'm moving a Bešlagić replica. Please do a quick replica, so let's go, Mr. Hadžović Izet.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21709	...accepted, or then started hitting the kale, so that I could answer him counter with potassium. It's been said that the drugs won't collect. The drugs are 100% collected. Let's get who was against the VAT right away. No Niko here has been in parliament, if we are discussing more VAT rates. So don't bend things now. And the third thing VAT is great, so let's wait until more supplies are over for these three months, and then we'll see. What kind of businessmen say about the loss of economy we're not going to collect bread. I would have replaced him right away. And these were the behavior of the directors and the class and all the others who said at the beginning that there would be a price up, and now they said we won't collect at the expense of the Malta not losing in that. What kind of businessmen are these? What and how are they blackmailed in these things? So we'll discuss VAT when we get the VAT analysis. Today is not an analysis, today we're going to do this and I'm proposing, since we're really exhausted, put it on the agenda to vote and go. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm Let's go to the next point as well. Without any desire to politicize her. And we'll discuss politics with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21710	Please, let's just refrain from the replicas. Jahić you go, Mr. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21711	I'd like to say one minute next. Now that we're on our way to the core of these things, there's not one drug on the existential list of drugs that's been collected. One who understands these things knows what it means. So 99% of the medical services being treated are on the existential drug lists and from each group of medicines, believe me, I know that because I've been doing these extensive lists are covered by these medicines. So just some extra drugs, etc. The second thing, we must admit to ourselves one fact for the first time since '96. In the years so here, including all governments, for the first time we have a bread collection and we have a social programme and we have inspections that go to control whether it's an illegal increase in prices. So I'm going to tell you that when I looked a little bit and did one analysis, the biggest collection of bread prices was in 2002 during another government and there was no social programme at all that wanted to cover this price collection, nor were there market inspectors who went to control what was an illegal price hike. You have a good will now, the inspectors are going, so you saw through the media that some on-site had to reduce those. The fact is, there's manipulation. The one in Brcko increases 70% of the bread. Well, it's normal to be a thief and a criminal. But that's why there's an inspector who's gonna sanction these things, and that's what's done. And you can't get those things settled overnight. So for the first time, for the first time, we have a social program that sanctions, relieves the problems that have arisen, as far as these endangered categories are concerned, and for the first time we have inspectors who control it. The other authorities didn't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21712	Thank you. A colleague Izet Hadžić asked for a word, so the replica Marija Perkanović did.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21713	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I would like to make a contribution, as far as I have followed the introduction of the VAT never chaired by the Council of Ministers, said there would be no problem with this activity which is now being addressed by this legal solution. And in his performances, he said there would be a solution for this area and a part of the solution, yet this is proposed here by this law. I would therefore ask that, given all the conditions that we can plead under Article 105 or with the assurance to say whether the documents, the opinions of the Board of Directors' Board of Direct Taxation, we can fully declare ourselves. I think the solution really helps one activity. I'm ready in further analysis, wherever VAT makes it difficult to support the same work with such short legal solutions, and I don't see any reason why this would now turn down other than really politics. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21714	Thank you. Wait a minute, please, replica Mara Perkanović, so if there is no debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21715	The Honorable Chairman, in general, is that this is a procedure and a vote on the 105th or 104th procedure, and I suggest we go to a statement, because this debate can go on forever. On the other hand, I wouldn't want to make any discrimination between the priority or emergency proposals. I can't believe it's any more urgent printing than food products, drugs, orthopedic aids and everything else. And I suggest that I stand up for it personally so that they go in the same procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21716	Thank you. Minister Ljerka Marić, so I, as she asked, will not answer. I'll dati myself the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21717	I won't tell you anything much, I just feel a commitment to all these other proposals that were when we talked about the procedure, just to say two sentences about the procedure. 71 This is therefore a request for a plea per article 105 after the procedure has been carried out so that we would like to have every time we discuss amendments and additions to the law in this area, there are now about 12 laws that treat this area. The last one was recently about that administration of indirect taxation when we brought it in. I would just like to say two more words about the text of the amendments and the addition of the Tax Act to an additional value that really refers to these two entries in this letter. The first sentence, which, the first point explaining why the amendment was rejected, means the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers concerning that paper that was also in the amendment. It is stated that this is not in line with the sixth Directive of the European Union, i.e. that reproductive material is not exempt from paying value added tax. As far as this application is concerned, these amendments to release books, brochures, magazines and publications as already written here on this ad hoc basis, I would just like to say the following, this way that is proposed in this position, in this article, is the same as it exists and was applied in the Law on Prescise on Transport and Services. So, the Management Board of this administration has at each session been given a list of books, brochures, of scientific importance, of, I don't know of educational significance etc. which has been sent by entity education ministries, which are the only one in charge of saying that something is in line with that and meets some other standards, so it's educational importance, scientific, any other importance. So that way, as it was done there in the Transport Tax Act, would be applied here and indeed on the basis of these proposals that would come from authorised text providers, i.e. from entity education ministers, would be applied here as well. And the way would also be controlled because this is a very narrow area of action, which is what this is about, is that it means that those who are most invited to say what education, science, etc. We would offer this and it's possible to control this so that it doesn't spread to any other literature that doesn't have the same meaning. And this attitude of Article 2 you've already heard what it means and I think it's also essential. Article 105 prays to be applied in order to maintain the text as it is, so as not to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21718	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed ministers, I thought I'd get back to you earlier, just after the appearance of Professor. Azra Hadžiahmetović, but since I'm here alone, then I let everyone discuss and here I finally took the right to say a few words about this proposal. What I think is that, and there's no need because I appreciate telling you what a zero rate is, what a VAT release is, I don't think there's any need to turn this parliamentary debate into. I thank Professor Azra for warning her that she should explain it too, but what surprises me is that I am speaking countless times behind this pay phone that the Council of Ministers has embarked on everything except what he's tasked with. So he must exercise power. If anyone finds a number here in this request, I'll swallow it, except for the date. And he's right. Azra when she says if someone asks for a VAT exemption for any area, branch, group, or company, then they must submit to the MPs a social account to say – that we have analysed that if the VAT rate for the graphic industry, media, publishers, etc. It will be 17%, that branch will come to that and that position and it is unacceptable for Bosnia and Herzegovina. If there's that analysis here's 72 to take a break to give it to us. Does he have a written analysis? I'll give you 15 minutes off. I want it for me. I want to know in front of the public that I'm deciding on a database, not on the basis of internal conversations and promises. I don't think there's any analysis. I'm convinced. Here, please pause for 15 minutes to get an analysis. Please, I don't need to explain, please. I'm saying that as an MP in the state parliament, I want to get it, if anyone's looking, but I'll tell you why I'm doing it. Not to chase a whim, not to hurt anyone, but to make a denomination of the promoters. So this is where the industry is said to come in unfavourable. And what they will do and what is the task of the state to fix it. What position is that? What price will he pay, what price will he pay? And this isn't enough unless it's released, so the re-promaterial is a little help. This is almost insignificant aid since the rates of re-promatter in neighbouring countries are nothing. But now that this has been done by heart, I want to tell you that this has been done by heart, I want to tell you that people are talking to Parliament, believing that we can do something. Why didn't the agencies, and they send information, buy, have no leased space. Why they're not freed from VAT, is this how it means that independent news agencies will disappear, so agencies, not newspapers. Is that what was being taken care of? That's why I can't, but it doesn't say, you see, you're nodding at me. I'll tell you what I think about the board of directors, so I'll recommend it to Parliament to see how consistent it is. And all I know is that this is, in what way, it says here how it happened. So here he writes books, brochures, magazines, publications, scientific, artistic, cultural, educational character, official journal, daily, weekly press based on the opinion of the board of directors, etc. I don't mind, I'd like it to write here and repromatter etc. But here people ask me says they beg to get rid of paying the VAT because as you know our only job is writing production and selling the news information they use, among other things, all the written media. So it's agency business. Why aren't they standing here? Because they don't have that power that can bring in anyone from the Council of Ministers or chair to talk. But this letter by Mr. Đoli Dikson and these two letters he writes, written with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, is such a character that they give me the right to initiate, under Article 28 of the same law, at least as Parliament, the procedure for the removal of the chair of the Committee for Indirect Taxation. And here's what I'm gonna put to the vote. And that's why I can't support Article 105's procedure because there's no such thing as what I'm talking about. I think it should be the agencies, so the agency news is important, if the media is important because they're being taken over. And I'm launching a procedure for the replacement of the Chairman's Board of Directors of the Direct Taxation Directorate. That's not why, perhaps, it's precisely why my colleague Azra is talking about, that this is also against the law, against the constitutional act. And no one has the right in this country, whether he's a stranger, was domestic. And I think we should start applying the law sometime. God forbid that as Parliament, we have the strength to act in this way towards the government, or the Council of Ministers. But if we do not have here to initiate the procedure, or to give the order to the Council of Ministers, it is their task to reverse the recall procedure, because this is an illogical relationship of an extreme nature towards Parliament. This is a letter, yes, to the chairman of the Council of Ministers in which the decision is past the law and past the Constitution. You're right. And I'm not interested in internal correspondence as an MP. I want state mathematics to be able to tell citizens – my chairman of the Council of Ministers and the resolution minister have convinced me if this rate applies that it is happening. So let's get each other to do some serious work. I am not saying what I aim to do, therefore in a negative sense, to the Council of Ministers or to Parliament. But let us, as a Parliament in this year, serious about all those whose position concerns us in Parliament, but also to be serious about ourselves. So I can't support Article 105's procedure because it doesn't allow those who need to share the fate of these media publications, which I think they should be. I cannot support this procedure for these reasons, although I am sorry that they are not included here, otherwise I would support and initiate the procedure for the Council of Ministers to call off the Director, as it is called, president of the Management Board for indirect taxation. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to answer for? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. We're voting on procedure, and then we'll conclude. - For 11, against 15, 3 abstentions, no majority, no entity majority. I therefore find it not acceptable to accept the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So he's going into regular procedure. Prepare for the vote to vote on the conclusion that, in accordance with the law, we task the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for the removal of the President of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate. Prepare to vote. Please. No, no, the Council of Ministers, we have that right. Vote now. Let's see. Yeah, you didn't vote. We repeat the vote. It doesn't matter, we are now a Parliament that decides or doesn't decide. Vote now. Now you're all clear on what Parliament is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21719	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21720	No, no, please. - For 15.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21721	Do not say that we understand what Parliament is, not let it be answered to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21722	Well, I didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21723	Step away from the microphone. Let's explain, so tell us what Parliament is. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21724	I'll explain just so we can finish the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21725	Be kind and please refrain more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21726	Mr. Belkić, I didn't mention you at all. What are you angry about?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21727	You mentioned this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21728	I did. So am I part of this Parliament. I'm thinking of myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21729	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21730	Saću just want to finish the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's about the motion procedure. Wait a minute, so my conclusion was that, in accordance with the law, the Council of Ministers was required to initiate the procedure for the removal of the President of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate. We didn't, so I'm asking it to happen again. Prepare to vote. Vote now and ask for a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21731	Who's asking it to happen again?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21732	I'm asking it to happen again, I didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21733	Here, we won't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21734	Great. So what I can do, everyone uses the right thing they want. Of course. - 16 for, versus 3, abstention 14. We have a majority, we don't have an entity majority. It remains to be agreed with the Federation because we don't have a majority of the Federation. He asked his colleague Belkić to explain why I was thinking this. Because I'm tired of hearing the story about how we can't do anything and when we can't. Thank you very much. If strangers can change us by the law, we can change them if they don't work in the interest, and we've rated them not to work. Thank you very much. I explained it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21735	Mr. Špirić, if, by your standard, someone's making Parliament what you're looking for in two minutes, then I really don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21736	Thank you. But Mr. Belkić, if your MP says someone broke the Constitution and the law of this country, and that doesn't mean anything to you at all, I can't do it except that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21737	Of course it does.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21738	Well, I see it means something to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21739	It's a little far away from the microphone, but Mr. Špirić, but we're not material for...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21740	No, you're not an exhibition.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21741	You know, we'll do it one different way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21742	It's not my exhibition, I value my colleague Azra, I commended it, and as for the material that we have material, we wouldn't be in this position any of us. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda and I'm sorry this replica came up. I'm sorry I didn't make a contribution, but I can see you're nervous. I need you to understand what position I'm in, I need to follow every word he says and when he answers his word. If I hurt someone, I apologize, it's not my intention. 11th Point of the Ad.11 agenda The request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 10 January 2006, the Rules of Procedure of the Members of the SDP Club delivered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 76 The bill of law was delivered to you by fax. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the applicant's request is included in the agenda of this session. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who's answering for a word? A colleague of Križanovć. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to sincerely ask you to understand that you do not take this nav proposal as unnecessary harassment for the third time or for us, or for the third time, to point out the variations of the amendment and the addition of the tax to an additional value. Last month, therefore, two similar proposals related to amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act were examined in this Parliament and sent to the regular procedure. The newspaper of this proposal is that it is a union to make these preliminary proposals. We were motivated to address this House of Representatives again with this bill, first of all with the knowledge that the Council of Ministers will appear with the Proposal for a Law on Value Added Tax, which contains only one segment of what is contained in our proposal. So, respecting the state of the country, we again think it is not too late to intervene with the Value Added Tax Act in order to amortise all the negative consequences of VAT. And I want to especially point out, we've never been against VAT. On the contrary, we advocated the introduction of VAT a year ago. But these changes are what we're going with, I think they're explained enough and they relate, above all, to protecting the life standard of the most endangered part of the population. I must especially stress that we have a commitment as legislators of this law to the 150 000 signatures of our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are seeking this, a commitment to farmers' associations, a commitment to trade unions, to the economic chambers of entities. The latest confirmation we got from the RS Chamber of Commerce somewhere just before New Year's Eve. And since we've been talking about VAT for almost a year, I really don't have anything new to tell you today about the reasons and arguments for this proposal. But I can ask you one question, when this is reflected in a way like this, and they support such changes as I've listed the chambers of commerce, trade unions, the association of farmers, citizens, hundreds of thousands of citizens, then I wonder who we really represent here as MPs, and I ask whose policy is run by the Council of Ministers. Whose interests does he represent and who he's working against? I won't say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21744	I thank my colleague Križanović. Momčilo Novaković answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21745	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, this is the first time since last session that we have this law on the agenda. Before that last session, several times we had 77 of this law on the agenda. I think the intensity this law is coming to is too slow for him to be adopted. I therefore propose that we discuss the SDP proposal at the next session immediately after the anthem, and then, given the possibility of a change of opinion at the end of the ratification of the agreement. Maybe we can come up with a solution. I really understand my colleagues from the SDP. Keeping tension on this issue seems very important to them in this next election campaign. Probably if these tensions are constantly held to have the opportunity to get counterproductive from this, but of course it's their risk. What's the fact of this is that here we don't have any position of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board on this proposal, and we have a previous one. So where the board of directors said it was unacceptable. I'm not going to repeat now as my colleague Špirić and I've seen three four digits here. One of them is 17% and a date of course. I think the reasons, i.e. the SDP's intentions and the SDP's desire to show this question in this way to the public are justified and I understand people. I don't understand that we're raped so much here in Parliament, but what to do, people can't do it any different. I understand, but I don't understand why we couldn't wait for the first, first results on the conclusion. He understands, but I don't understand why we couldn't wait for the first results from the conclusion of this home that should be followed 60 days after the application to see the first effects and assess whether there is room for this proposal. I think that would be correct. Then we'd know if the reduction in these rates, or let me say change, that I'm not at risk of a zero reduction, etc. the change in the rate of whether it will affect the assessment of the budget of consolidated budgets and, on the other hand, whether or not these budgets will be necessary to change the VAT rate of 17% by the end. All this must be the result of a serious analysis that has also been left out in this proposal. For these reasons, I will not support the SDP's proposal to discuss this act under Article 105, because I believe it is not a bit simple, that it does not meet the basic conditions that the Rules of Procedure require that an act be discussed under Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21746	The Republic is wanted by counterpart Križanović, so Dr. Gligorić. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21747	I think this is the second time I've replicated something. It is not my custom, but it really doesn't make sense that colleague Novaković is giving us a lesson when we propose something and how we propose it. You don't need a colleague to worry about it, we'll make sure to comply with your assignments. You see, there's one explanation here that we're courting, I don't know who this guy is and that's our goal. We talked about this a year ago, we talked about it this summer in August, now in December and we'll do it again and we won't give up. And we represent actually the attitudes that this House of Representatives adopted a year ago. Here. And the other thing is that someone was pounding their ears later, I'm not gonna say that right now. But, you see, it needs to be principled. We are courting unions, associations, chambers of commerce and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are not adhering to Mr. Đolije Dikson, because he didn't write us anything and 78 didn't approve us. Now that's the difference between what you represent and what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21748	Thank you. ministrica Marić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21749	Please, I have to read these two sentences on the first page where it says that the subject of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act is of additional value where it says that it is in accordance with Articles 81 and 82. The Rules of Procedure table this proposal and says – we note that similar amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act submitted by SDP members following their refusal to consider them under Article 105 of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in December 2005 are currently in regular procedure. So we have a number of very similar laws more in the regular procedure, and I would again refer to what I've been calling for all day today, and that's on a regular procedure and for this law, although I don't know how much it is, how much changes are different from those already in the procedure. Another thing about this campaign earlier, I went and took this one call for signatures, and I realized at that moment when it was about the exemption, not the zero rate it's offered here today in this legislative proposal. Obviously, since I just saw it now, but it doesn't matter, this zero that's here is a zero rate from the sales of products and services, that old law that's now replaced with this, and you know because we've explained the combination of two feet in case this would be a zero rate, then this second rate would have to be 22% in order for us to be able to present about that burden divided by about two feet, although here, because there's no calculation really meant for concrete products, I don't know if now all that was in that proposal. I would only ask you to return this proposal to the regular procedure so that we can really, here on Wednesday should be the first BiH Statistics Agency communiqué related to the introduction of the VAT. Let's see how we do it, let's see what's going on here, and I hope it's still good to wait for the entity's budget to be adopted, or the state, to see how we can incriminate ourselves with social programs, and then, of course, after six months, here's access to these changes and additions to the laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21750	I thank Minister Marić. A colleague of Novaković was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21751	I'd just like to tell my colleague Križanović that we had our relationship with Mr Dikson a few minutes ago, namely our own way of courting Mr Dikson, voting for Mr Špirić's proposal. I hope this is not the result of the lapus, Mr. Križanović is not the result of not monitoring the session, but really just the lapus.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21752	Thank you. A colleague named Gligorić asked for a word, Dr. Gligorić. Here you go. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we need not be courting anyone, but we need to do our job honestly and responsibly in the interests of our citizens. But when we talk about amendments and additions to this law by the SDP promoter, then we really need to take the principle that applies to everyone, although I would like it to be done right away because your proposal is the most qualitative and best for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But if we're going to be responsible people, then I think it's necessary to return it to the procedure, secure the board's opinion on a shortened procedure under Article 104, and I'd like to make a contribution to this debate in this direction and end it this way. Since everyone is talking about that tax, I personally think that this is not any election promise, but it is my personal and many of my colleagues' position that we need a zero rate. Is that an exception, as we have the opportunity in the law to do it or it's going to be a differentiated rate, because this congregation majority reminds me in its stories of that one thought, like when you're corrupting a goose, that you do it to make it less underpants, and that you rob her as much feathers as possible. So that tax is actually from the citizens that way, and that's why I don't think you're being honest about this, because when the time comes, and when that opinion comes that can be negative by the administration, you're not going to back it up again because you can't because because of strangers who don't know the difference about this Dikson, you can't, or you're doing it with the international community in part, and this publishing. Now you want to do it. It is known for what reasons and why the newspaper officials ordered it, and then, at the same time as August and the time of the election campaign, then bread or bread or milk will be cheaped and campaigned. That's you. So taking care of the citizens is now. No need to wait 60 days, no matter what analysis. Whether these analyses will show that our citizen has arrived has reached some standard of European average citizen. He'll be up in 60 days. And that's why I think it would be principled to go into a regular procedure, and that's how it's going to get out, and at the same time I'd like to pray that within that time, we're thinking that this is the only positive thing to do. Otherwise, if we don't, we'll take what we took from the poor girl, and we'll take from the economy at the same time, and we'll form some institutions at BiH level, and we'll buy means we'll invest in red tape in cars and destroy both our economy and our poverty will be even bigger. That's why I'm asking you to accept this liberating rate by the promoters of Mr. Križanović, Bešlagić and Lagumdžija, release it in a regular procedure and prepare to do so in 15 days and support it. Well, it won't, but I'm saying that because of the principle, if we said it was true for everyone else, then I think it should apply to the SDP as well. That's my personal attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21754	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21755	Here I am again in front of a person this letter from Mr. Đoli Dikson to the chairman of Terzić. So not the opinion, but the letter in which the last letter is here, is not an approval but a letter in 80 whose last position says that the prime minister, the chairman of Terzić himself, has guaranteed that there will be no other exemptions from paying taxes on additional value. If we know that there are finance ministers sitting on the board, I do not believe that neither Mrs Marić nor the entity finance ministers will support any other proposal, so the macaw was bread, milk and I find it truly absurd any debate after this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21756	Thank you, Dr. President. Hadžiahmetović. A colleague, Đedović, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21757	I'm sorry, I'll be brief, but I really do need a distinguished teacher just this behind the score to read it, that's why I said it. And then he says, "The board of directors approves of your proposal." Approves. He can put a title up there any way he wants. They did not ask for approval from this Parliament, but they were granted it by the Management Board and the Management Board. This just happened to be on our benches, and it shouldn't have. The address for solving the VAT problem obviously from this letter, ma'am, no matter how we think about these relations. I'm sorry. And that's why I can't, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21758	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. We're closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote for procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 11, versus 20, abstention 2. So there's no majority, there's no entity majority. I also find this proposal, therefore, to be requested by MEPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić for the draft amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The rules of procedure have not been accepted and are going to the regular procedure. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on the verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. On 30 December of last year's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for this law also with a request for a procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21759	Well, I don't know if there's anyone who might be wondering about this law, which is exactly why the accounts of the old foreign savings don't cover a subsidiary of 81 Ljubljana Bank and Invest Bank? It seems to me that most of the old foreign savings are in those banks. So I'd like to have someone answer me?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21760	ministrica Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21761	I hope you've been able to read this introductory material here that speaks of what it says in this law and why this law was made in this way. It says here that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury carried out the alignment of the text of the bill proposed by a working group formed under the Commission's Human Rights Decision, and that means in these lines here in the reasons justifying the urgency of the procedure in the parliamentary procedure. So the entities were before this, and we passed one law on the settlement of internal debts, depending on what they were referring to, so the state made those leftover liabilities to pay and some receipts from work, and the entities passed laws that treated this area. After the Constitutional Court said that it was necessary to draft a new law, the legislative proposal will make the same position to all those who are damaged in the matter of not resolving the internal debt. We made one working group within the deadlines as it says here in this letter, and this is about the eighth version that has been agreed and which was found on the Council of Ministers who, after one month or more of the discussions, left this law in the process, after raising a few criminal charges against the responsible persons who did not do this in time. This law on the verification and settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign exchange savings account means treating exactly the internal debt which is actually one of the most painful problems in the country and which this law is regulated to continue to mean the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska in accordance with this law are responsible for the settlement of the old foreign savings account deposited on their territory. In Article 2 of the definition of old foreign savings account, this issue is raised and the question is defined in the first position as to how much debt is related to issues, an estimated total amount based on old foreign savings of 1,978.9 million KM, and the position 2 says that these two do not include these accounts in the branches of the Ljubljanska banka, Invest Bank because these issues have been tried on the basis of a succession and since we have never received a legal position regarding whether it is possible to do so, if nothing is being taken into account with these countries in which these banks are based, this means being taken out of this law and left to solve, in particular, whether it is a matter of succession as interpreted by Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is to try to resolve arbitration as currently proposed by Slovenia to Croatia. And that's why there's no such thing as the subject matter of this law. So only the banks that had territorial units on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, so that's the most economic bank and I don't know which one of the banks that had an explanation backwards. After the Law on Debt, Guarantees and Debt was passed, he actually gave one legal basis that Bosnia and Herzegovina can at all issue bonds that would regulate the issue of the right of these savings, because there, at the end of the law,...the liability of the head of the third party is said to - after the verification of the claim to be made after this law within a very short period of 60 days, that it is then necessary in entity budgets for the next 82 years, because this payment is already planned at 100 marks, and that in the third month of 2008, the issue of bonds will be completed which will resolve the difference in the payment of the internal debt. Most of the law should, if there is yet to know something controversial meaning he says here is talking about the principal, about the write-off on the interest account, about the verification of the demand of this whole other head, about the meaning now that verification of the claim should be done and already about those agencies that inherited the former SDK or the Department of Payments, the process of ratification, and then talking about the deadlines and the cash payout of what will happen. So for this year, it should be paid up to 100 each 100 marks, and that's what the entities planned. The following year, up to 1000 and over that year, means to issue by the third month in exchange for bonds and to be prepared technically because the Central Bank, meanwhile, has purchased one software from the Slovenian Stock Exchange as the register is established, as these bonds are done, in order to become very fast marketable. In third terms here, part three speaks about bond emissions, which are the conditions, what bond emissions represent, and then we have this application of the provisions through agency contracts, information and implementing regulations. So basically this one, you have a problem, is there a problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21762	No, no, they only suggest it's a matter of procedure. Now we're voting only on the procedure, not on the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21763	Yeah, well, then I'm all of this, about this question that was concrete, but so the law should really be passed in procedure 105 because we're already late for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21764	The procedure of Article 104 shall be requested. You're looking for a procedure of Article 104. It's something different. Well.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21765	It's a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21766	That if the drugs don't get cheap, someone's gonna live to get his old foreign savings back. You're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21767	Well, that's good. So here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21768	Procedure 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21769	Okay. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21770	Thank you. Is there anyone here about the procedure that he wants to discuss? Mladen Potočnik. Here you go. Let's get this debate under control.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21771	I don't want to discuss the procedure, just one minute about what Miloš has set up. It can't be a question of a succession of old foreign currency savings, because it happened before the state fell apart and it has to be in this law. If you follow a little, then you will see that some Croatian citizens with large sums have managed to win in the International Court against the Slovenian, that is, the Ljubljana Bank, and that is why Slovenia is now proposing arbitration because, as our people say, they are found in unguarded grapes. Therefore, the state should protect the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and from foreign banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21772	I understand, but when there's a debate about the metrics, about the law, then we can say what's missing, what's wrong, whether it's going to pass or not. So now it's just a procedure. Is there anyone else with the procedure? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 28 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, we have therefore adopted a proposal from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on verification and settlement of obligations based on an old foreign savings account under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and thus obtained the conditions to move to the 13th point of the agenda, that is Ad.13. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in the provision of assistance and persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. We received the Rules of Procedure of the Act on 9 January 2006 with a request for the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21773	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I would believe this law would have been much easier to support if it had not been for lawyers to participate in its creation, that is, that is, he is not a proposal from the Justice Ministry. Why? Because I can't believe that here in this law are legal norms. What it says here. 84 I might also vote if it wasn't for a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and there are also people who probably understand a little about human rights. There's nothing here but human rights. So it is here in the very law that the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina will, before submitting a proposal to determine the measures mentioned above, determine the existence of a reasonable doubt. I'm asking if there's any reasonable doubt about the decision of the High Representative, which is not based on any evidence? I suppose that would be enough for the D.A. to guarantee that there are grounds for doubting that someone is blocking the property, or that they are being banned from having the property, and believe me, that means gradually destroying the property. No matter how much she was. Furthermore, that this proposal should contain Article 6 of the Property and the type of measure, rather than the elements on which reasonable doubt is established, I really don't understand. Given that I assume the 4th is defined to be carried out in accordance with the law on the enforcement procedure and the provisions of this law, and the provisions of this law are so unclear that I find it really very difficult to do so in one correct way. And the next thing you know, we get to Article 9 that's talking about when a person who's involved is not talking about people where there's an accusation on the list, which is unreachable, etc. For which we are starting from the assumption, here is that as soon as we find it wrong, but we are talking about those who are accused in some way to help and then says, if, on a proposal from the Prosecutor's Office, the court will, by means of a solution, abolish the stated measure, and under b) if the person involved in providing assistance to the accused dies, if the investigation proceedings are suspended, i.e. it is released or the conditions set out in point (a) are met. And point (a) refers to war crimes indictees. When is this condition? When all are committed to justice. Pan, I guess some of them are helping everyone. Or maybe one x helps a person “nn”, so when we catch a person “nn” then “xx” will have its own property. Or “xx” won’t be available while one “nn” is at large. And they are dear gentlemen 12,000 on various charges in this country. So far, the information that's been going through the media. And all this and somehow, but please Article 9(2) on the proposal of the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Justice of BiH may, in effect, withdraw these measures, so these funds, if they are the means to eat. Well, it's not like the Court can, and there's a possibility they won't let anyone eat. Or medication. Believe me, I haven't seen a text this ugly and unprofessionally written in a long time. And it is not an honor to the Council of Ministers, nor to him who was pushed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21774	Who's next to the word? Please. About the procedure, yes, yes, about the membership procedure. Is there anyone else who can discuss the procedure? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 18, v. 9, abstentioned no one. 16, no entity size. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. No colleagues, I'm sorry I'd agree right now. 85 We move to the 14th point of the agenda, Ad.14. The BiH Financial Business Audit Office's 2004 report suggests that we go after a, b, c, d, we have to vote separately for each report, so under a) BiH State Service Agency, who answers for the word? Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21775	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, finally after so much time comes the turn and the first part of the 2004 Review Report. The BiH institutions' audit report aims to inform both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the general public with main findings and conclusions and recommendations from the Office for the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Annual audit reports are only part of the Office's audit activities. They are preceded by the whole year of the audit process, which includes the so-called so-called process. a previous audit following which the Office for Audit warns the management of clients of identified weaknesses and failures so that they can remove them before the final accounting period. So, as soon as the BiH institutions review reports say in 2004. Out of the 38 audit reports, the 9 reports are positive. There are no negative reports, and 29 reports contain opinions with qualifications, i.e. the reserve. Opinions with the reserve, according to the auditor's explanation, are vividly said, as when a student falls on a correctional, and a negative opinion is like when a student loses a year. So 29 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina received an opinion with a revision, which means that audit reports suggest unconscious business, irrational use of public funds and various aspects of abuse. The question for the general auditor and his assistants is. Did some of the institutions, of the 29 institutions, deserve a negative report, instead of an opinion with a reserve and what is the threshold of materiality to determine negative opinion? How is the public sector audit report seen in the civilized world? In many countries, the public sector review report is particularly carefully analysed and monitored. This important segment is accompanied by the scope of public spending regulations, various measures strengthen internal audits, introduce different rules and procedures and standards to protect public money and property from abuse. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21776	Please reduce the use of mobile phones.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21777	I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21778	Get Živković to help on behalf of the club. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21779	Let me just keep going. For abuses of public funds and deviations from the rules of conduct in accordance with regulations, standards, procedures have been imposed harsh penalties which force budget users to be constantly awake in planning and using public funds. And what's our status? It is clear that the audit reports are not forensic reports and that they cannot form the basis for the trial. Their intention to point out failures in the work of institutions without Bosnia and Herzegovina and to warn the Parliamentary Assembly if budgets are used non-transparently, i.e. to warn that public money must be responsibly planned, and that its spending beyond the planned framework must be made known, or agreed by Parliament. The competent authorities should take measures according to the audit reports for lack of accountability in the planning and spending of public funds. Has anyone in this country ever been made aware of any failures in the planning and availability of public funds by any criminal criminal criminal disciplinary or other measure? We can't remember that. In this country, for unwitting business, the irrational use of public funds, the different types of abuse has neither liability nor sanctions. There are no court epilogues, no criminal or disciplinary charges, no political responsibility for the poor work of state institutions, resulting in a motion to call off officials, at least by the political party that proposed them. Nowhere in the civilized world is the majority of voters who would support the poor and irresponsible work of any minister, and abuse of position and irresponsibility in particular. Audit reports in Republika Srpska are receiving a court epilogue. After a report signed by Mr. Čeko, follow criminal charges, recalls, shifts, shifts in Elektroprivreda, Serbian forests, etc. are the result of audit reports. Even preliminary reports showing the elements of the crime are sent to the D.A.'s office for consideration and work on them. Within the Council of Ministers, each minister can buy a red Ferrari and not at any time be held accountable for a criminal or any other kind of punishment. Unbelievable, but true. Imagine a country where the funds from the BiH institutions' budget for only one event are spent 2 million marks, without having to justify it to anyone. Or another case of funding from the BiH institutions' budgets to finance conferences with approximately a million marks, with countless illegalities and abuses, which is referred to by audit reports, and all of this goes unpunished. Instead of the rule of law, therefore, the law, in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have the rule of internal regulations on which huge sums of money, taxpayers who have no responsibility and any sanctions are being spent. The country's public should know that for a certain number of privileged workers working in BiH institutions, they earn huge funds, part on the basis of regular salaries that determine themselves within their institutions, but also on different other grounds, thus contractual obligations. From the review report, I just want to read you one part that says payments for one institution that is subject to review today, the institution is called the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate for Repayments under the Act Treaty are not regulated in a way that the contracts define the total receipts by these grounds. This is now partially distributed to the same employees on a number of basiss, fees, stimulation, accommodation, transport logs, phone costs, fuel costs. In addition, employees who are engaged at the same time on two projects appear to receive double compensation. 87 Or, the funds from the flyover to the Civil Aviation Directorate, the pre-flight funds were not spent in a rational and transparent manner, i.e. Not a detailed plan and a programme of these flyovers, but the spending of these funds with its purpose. Or bought people three cars that weren't even planned anywhere. The finance ministry has so far failed to establish the necessary rules and procedures for the financial operations of the BiH institution because it does not have the necessary personnel capacity for the job. We know about the problem of filling out jobs in that ministry that has been in place for the past six years. I will find it difficult to convince me that there are no experts needed in the labour market in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be employed as civil servants in certain jobs in the finance and vault ministry. What a rasmusade within the institutions of this state can be seen in another example of another institution. The Veterinary Office shall have an organisational part in its composition called the Animal Marking Agency. It is unusual that within the budget, the Animal Marking Agency is treated as a separate budget user with its unique identification number. However, they do not have the resources available to the Veterinary Office, but according to different internal rules and decisions on salaries and fees. This example speaks of the chaos of BiH institutions, and the Council of Ministers leaves the problem unresolved even though it was the subject of the review's observations and the 2003 report. Finally, I ask the question – did any minister who was either at the head of the ministry who received a negative report, or a reserve report, whom I consider to be negative, address the Parliamentary Assembly with a programme to overcome the situation in its ministry? It would be seeking the support of this parliament for accumulated problems that are not so easy to solve. I know, he's not, and he won't, because he doesn't care about the opinion of this highest legislative body in the country. Finally, I want to point out today's vote should confirm whether there is hope for this dreary picture of the state of BiH institutions that paint the audit reports. I call on my fellow MPs to support the review report and also ask the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office to inform this house until it comes with an investigation into the 2004 review reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21780	Thank you. But, ladies and gentlemen, before I give the word to Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Dušanka therefore spoke in general about all the reports. I didn't want to interrupt it, even though we said we were going to be taxing under a, b, and c. We have to vote individually. So it's a report from the Agency, an audit for the BiH State Service Agency, so we'll adopt reports and recommendations from our commission when it comes to the reports. Here's my word. Azra Hadžiahmetović. I'm asking the others if they want to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21781	Well, here's a thank you. I must mention that unfortunately when we discuss the reports 88 on the revision almost identically, at least those who understand their professions in these matters use the same arguments and the story is repeated year after year and the revision is consciously doing its job, sends reports, reports come to Parliament, discusses this parliament, concludes something and again until the next trip, etc. But this year we have an exception, which is that today we discussed the 2006 Budget Proposal before us audit reports for 2004. We have one vacuum, a whole year that for jobs and these stories both in the budget and in the audit and how much it means. I don't know if it's inert and administration and Parliament and commission, all of us, or something else, but it's really weird that we only have today's audit reports for 2004. And quite logically, the question arises whether we're going to re-exhaust ourselves at a time when the specific weight reports of the peer review or here and I have also noted to myself whether or not the prosecution has ever initiated any procedure for the review report? Not that I know of, and here is my colleague, Majkić, who particularly apostrophe for that question. There's one question here, what are we even doing with this relationship to the audit reports? I know that unfortunately, the Office of Audition and auditors do not have the specific weight of that kind that they can do things themselves in the nature of doing things when they detect irregularities to run, or address or direct, etc. Given the frameworks and the standards by which they operate, but I'm not sure this House can't do it. But if we're talking about 2004 today, then the question is how much does something really matter, even though I know there's a problem, the question of non-age, how much more does it really have specific weight? We, I will remind you that in the reports so far, here we have, on several occasions in this Parliament's assembly, had registered by the auditors, say, the need for internal control which is lagging out from year to year, so here and tomorrow when we get reports for 2005, we will also face up to the fact that we should, in some way, refer to reports, or to, or to, at all, talk about the budget of one way how expenditures, revenues and expenditures are planned in state institutions are planned, that here is a very ugly method, however, rather than to some more detailed analysis, that there is indeed a need for internal controls, but if we are to remain in registering and to find out that there is a need for internal control, then we will repeat it from the report and one, perhaps one proposal that this Parliament. if it is not already possible to do so, the Office for the Review of all these reports, together with the record of the commission that has been reviewing these reports, address the competent institutions, and if someone finds that they have the basis for the possible initiation of the procedure, to do so. This is how we and the Council of Ministers are really powerless, especially the Office of Audit. We keep going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round And really the question of what do we really want to achieve today? We need to amnesty for something he did, or we need to eventually establish a relationship for something that needs a basis for planning budget incomes, expenditures, etc. Are we going to change anything at all, or are we still going to continue this journey where even those who consciously deal with this business, by reviewing in accordance with their rules of play, will be constantly hit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21782	Thank you. Ljilja Milićević asked for a word. Here you go. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So you see, in order to remove the doubt, why now the 2004 reports mean we have received reports from the Office for Auditing 18 reports on July 26th, the rest of July 29th. So that's when the reports came, and then all the MPs got complete reports. So, after she got the commission, you all got it. We have adopted Parliament procedures in working with documents prepared by the Audit Office. The procedures were adopted in 2003, meaning the report is being processed. One approach. You see we got them at the end of July. We couldn't, just when the people were done, they sent us the first package, then the other one. It's done according to certain procedures. You only got a summary of the report here. So what we've done, this typical summary of what it's been like last year, what are the recommendations of the Audit Office for this year, and so we've been communicating with budget users. It's a practice, so it has to be communication with them. No recommendation has been made by the commission to change the situation, or to challenge anything, so we have been given the consent of all budget users to accept this finding by the Audit Office. They normally made a statement about what they did in the meantime, what they fixed, what they didn't, what they were planning to do, etc. What am I saying? We cannot challenge any of this report, we have singled out 9 reports that have received a positive opinion. That's what I have to say for reasons why we rarely had a positive opinion in this house, it was a rare thing to have a positive opinion. This means that there is no materially significant error in it. What does an auditor's opinion with a reserve mean? Well, that's one of the opinions of a qualified auditor. And it is said when there is doubt in one, or more positions in the annual report, it is because of restrictions on volume, or detection of material errors that are more significant, it is possible to express an opinion with the reserve. The auditors themselves said that in this year's report, the formulations of opinions with the reserve were changed, and the emphasis was placed on the fact that the accounts represent a fair and true situation with the exception of the items expressed in doubt or reserve. So I wouldn't bother myself, in this brief review, the Commission's report we listed all the users, consciously pointed out those who have positive opinions and suggested to the House four conclusions and I would ask you to mean when all the budget users pass, all 40 to pay attention, meaning in all the recommendations of the Audit Office that stand and we only pulled out those who are common to all budget users. And maybe this fourth conclusion is actually what the predecessors said where we proposed to the House to deliver these reports to the D.A., this 33 report means that they are with the reserve for the possible initiation of criminal proceedings in accordance with the jurisdiction of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office. But since it's going to be 10, four times under 10 reports this time, it's going to be on the line at the end. We sent this to Parliament in December and we did not want to enter into that in 2006 we have been considering the review report since 2005, because they were ready on December 6th. It means this one, but it was going to be approached like this. I'd like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21784	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. 90 Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding the debate on the Office's Review Report (A) of the BiH State Service Agency, prepare to vote. Vote now. This is good. - So 27 for, no one against, no one abstention. I agree that we accepted the BiH State Service Agency's 2004 report with the committee's report and recommendations. We are going under b) BiH Labour and Employment Agency for 2004 I am opening the debate. Whoever answered the word, or the remarks of a global character were. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. This is already going faster. - For 27, no one against, no one abstention. I agree that we accepted the 2004 audit office's report on the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment with the committee's recommendations. Let's go under c) BiH Statistics Agency I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 27, against no one, one abstention. I also find that we have accepted the review report from the BiH Statistics Agency for 2004. Let's move on d) Report from the Financial Business Audit Office of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments I'm opening a crack. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 26, against no one, two abstentions. I therefore find that we have accepted the report from the Financial Business Audit Office of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments for 2004, with recommendations from the Commission. 91 Let's move on, so e) Report from the Office for Auditing and Financial Business of the Centre for Mine Removing BiH I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 26, against no one, one abstention. I understand that we have accepted the report from the BiH Mine Removal Centre's Financial History Review Office for 2004. We move to f) Report from the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate's Office for Audit and Financial Affairs for 2004 I am opening the debate. Niko one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 26 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we have accepted the Office for Auditing and Financial Business of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2004, with recommendations from the committee in charge. We move to g) Report of the Office for Auditing and Financial Business of the BiH Directorate for European Integration for 2004 I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 26, no one against, two abstentions. I find that we have accepted the report of the Office for Audit and Financial Business of the Directorate for European Integration of the BiH for 2004. We move to h) Report from the Office for Auditing and Financial Business Directorates for Implementation of the CIPS project I am opening the debate. Niko one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - I find that with 24 for, no one against, two abstentions, we have therefore adopted a report from the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate. 92 Let's move on and) Report of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection I am opening the debate. No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21785	You can tell I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21786	- For 26, no one against, two abstentions. I find that we have accepted the report of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. We move to j) Report of the Office for Audit and Financial Affairs of the State g
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21787	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Something very short. The presented report concludes that security in this country is relatively good compared to some previous times, I would like to say that almost all segments are doing better. Thank God it's true. Of course, if that's the case. What I want to point out is that I am going to base on my recent parliamentary question that I have not yet received an answer, and that was said: who in this country today will protect a citizen from hooligans and criminals? But they didn't know how to answer the question, either, to whom I spoke to the police. They said that every day they'd put themselves up and they didn't know who would protect them. More than usual. So you're looking for the answer yourself, and the power and authority of the police they have today is questionable and I don't see it in this report that at least with one sentence it's said, and I think it should be done in a certain way. Under 2. The police say we're looking, we catch, we do it, we report it. And the D.A. and the D.A. say it doesn't work, let them go, and don't judge them. I don't see in this report that this is a problem, and it is a problem. Out there somewhere besides those who chased, caught and reported it, and that's the judiciary and the D.A.'s office and they claim it's uncompromising for this situation and this time. I can't even see that it's pointed out, and it is safe there. Third, corruption is a dork, or not covered by this information, and she means cancer wounds today. It's more severe than any type of crime, where it all appears, where it reigns, and where the drugs are for it, I don't see it in this report. Fourthly – Information does not cover criminal privatisation and tycunisation, nor does the lack of good legislation affecting this matter in a certain way. Fifth - a minor delinquency has not been well worked out and how to solve it, because, however, nobody in this country solves it for a variety of reasons. I wouldn't go into details. But underage delinquents claim to be harassing and that this is the same extremely difficult situation in this country, starting with a lack of shelter to, retraining etc. It's a conclusion. All of this affects, among other things, the security in this country and when this is added to the situation, then I think it's a little bit worse for the shade than the one that's been presented, a little worse than the one that's been presented, and I point my finger at being an MP to work this out and work it out so that these perceived, and the ancient present problems come once in a row and that the situation in our country is even better than what it is. We must not be satisfied with what the joke says – a convict on the shooters laughs when they ask him, and now you get a bullet, he says better than I'm stuck on a stake. And that's a picture that could be used here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21788	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we're on the verge of a quorum and that we can't, that it would be good for anyone to leave the room to finish this session. If there's anyone, you know that, I'm asking you to know that this information is being received. We have high-quality commission conclusions, so I'm asking you to take this information 94 to our knowledge and vote on the conclusions. We can't fix the information, we can't work it out, but we can simply adopt the conclusions of our competent commission to help the authors of future information that contains this information and this is what our colleague Moranjkić was talking about. So yes, I can't take of course the right to speak. Who's next to the word? A colleague, Sipović, and Đedović, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21789	I would support this conclusion in principle, and we need to understand in what complex situation we are in, this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the levels of authority from entities, from the state of entity and canton and the powers of police, and security goes into that segment. Security is a very wide dispersion, but I can't keep hearing the police don't have the authority to do it right. They also have powers, they also have the Code of Criminal Procedure, they have the Internal Affairs Act and a series of other laws that give certain powers. However, I have to replicate to an esteemed colleague, agree with most of his findings and conclusions, and I alone cannot agree as who represents the interests of the protection of human rights and legal certainty, so the findings as allegedly police catch up with, and then the prosecution and courts let go. And what that would mean is what it's called if the police arrested and captured and tried, then it would be a police state. That's right. Your democracy is that the authorities of the prosecution must prove that someone committed the crime and this. One segment that is very dangerous in this regard, and I believe in principle that this country is going towards one security system that progresses from day to day. Is he to a satisfactory extent certain that he is not and you are witnessing that various segments occur in all parts of this country. I have always followed that precisely MPs refer to this item of the agenda very routinely, and it is very segmentary and mostly they report to the right police or security authorities. Although it is the task of the parliaments of all levels to address a little more causes to improve this security situation in all segments, rather than to take it for granted. And that's worrying that I'm interested, it's worrying that my colleague Moranjkić said it's a worrying juvenile delinquency. And at all levels and in all areas of the state. This society and this country at all levels would have to find some better efficient mechanisms. We're all parents here, and we're all what it's called, but it's worrying, and we know the consequences of this juvenile delinquency, drug use, intoxicating drugs, alcohol and others, and prostitution, and we're doing a bit of a segmentary gift on education, especially on sports and physical culture. Obviously this country and all segments have little hearing because it did not adopt the Law on Sports, and then we are most expensive to come by this juvenile delinquency and the treatment of such addicts. In that segment, he would support this observation and propose, except for these conclusions, to consider this esteemed home that at all levels and entity assemblies and cantonal congregations and all segments of these institutions dealing with a security aspect, because it is in all our interest to work on these segments, in particular to refer to the juvenile delinquency. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21790	Thank you. I thank my colleague Đedović for giving up the discussion. I guess there's no more discussion, unless it's patriotism. Come on. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21791	I think we should, this is our third or fourth report from the Department of Security and I think it's correct to say because, here's for us and for them that this is the best report yet. So everyone was better than the last one. I'm glad to say so, Mr. Deputy Minister here. As a member of the commission, I can say that we have considered these reports very seriously, this information here from the members of the commission has only a colleague, Novaković, as far as I can see. And a condition as described there. The question now is the intelligence of the Department of Security. They're in charge of SIP, of DGS, and around juvenile delinquency, it's not like I'm saying it's not their area of responsibility that I'd say. I'd just be sure, I agree with what my colleagues were saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21792	Just a little patience, please, Sejo Avdić, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21793	But I suggest that the following report, which are the most significant, should be written in my opinion in the following report, which is the most significant security challenges, i.e. the problems of Bosnia. Is it a minor delinquency, is it, are the holes on the road, is it terrorism, is it corruption? It means we have a list of the biggest problems. The list should be whether to write out how these problems will be solved and below 3. who will solve them. And then we could discuss it better. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21794	I thank my colleague Huskić you are right, which is the report's better situation is worse, but we must work today to accept this information and the conclusions of our commission. I made a little joke, of course I support everything you said. Prepare to vote. So we're voting on the conclusions of our commission, and we're getting the report to the knowledge. Vote now. - So I'm saying that with 23 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions adopted the panel's report with conclusions and that's how we got to the 16th point of the agenda. 96 Ad.16. The Joint Commission's report on the efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the People's House (Adjudication of Common Provisions) The Joint Commission reached an agreement on the identical text of the corresponding provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House. You've received a report from the commission, you've seen that the Joint Commission has adopted a single amendment. I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - I find that with 27 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, meaning unanimously adopted the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, that's Ad.17. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes You also received a Report from the Joint Commission. usaglasiti text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes has been adopted by adopting two amendments. We are now voting on the report, or I am opening a debate. Is there a need? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that we unanimously adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the effort of both homes to reach an agreement on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes with 20 votes for, no one against, no one abstention. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. A report by the Research Commission on the determination of the degree of radiation of poored uranium and the impact on the health of citizens in BiH on 30 November 2005 received a report from the Research Commission on the determination of radiation levels in the impoverished uranium. You got the report. You've seen it's in Dot 6. The Commission shall state the conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Živković. Here you go. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21795	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the President's Commission is currently ill, and Mr Nakaš, unfortunately, has passed away, here I was tasked with saying just a few sentences of what we've been doing in the past year as members of the Investigation Commission. I know the MPs are tired, but let's give this important question a few minutes, and with quality conclusions, we'll finish this job that, as I said, takes a year. We have been given the Parliament's conclusion to identify the location in Bosnia and Herzegovina where radioactive ammunition has been used, to determine the measures taken by the competent institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and by the organisation to resuscitate the areas and to identify the degree of threat to human health, especially children, animals, plants, as well as other natural resources. We've been working on six meetings and two public hearings. The public debate was one concerning the first and second, i.e. the first and second tasks of the Commission to identify places and to determine whether some institutions had taken any measures in relation to the resolution of these areas and other public debates concerning direct health only, or whether it affected the health of plants, animals, especially children, of what was done with ammunition. The Commission has unquestionably reached the conclusions set out in this report that it was shot with ammunition with impoverished uranium. Here in the report you have and the places where it's happened and it's no longer a secret. On the contrary, it is a notorious fact that should no longer be questioned. We have not established the exact location of all places, because we did not get from the relevant institutions a specific coordinate, however, most of the sites are listed in this report. Unfortunately, we have to realize that with the material technical means that our services and organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina are currently not able to determine all places that have been radiated because simply these instruments can't go deep into the ground, they can reach the country by 20-30 cm, and we know that the grains with radioactive uranium go far deeper into the land and beyond in contact with water find ways to reach living organisms. A bigger, bigger problem for the Commission was to get relevant medical reports on the threat to the situation, because such projects were not done. We only have some to say to the organization, or to the institution responsible for monitoring the health of the population where there are indications of the linkage between the disability rate and the fact that ammunition is poored uranium. That's all we need to take with the reserve, and we're in line with what we found here and what everyone can read, we've come to some conclusions. Those conclusions are not binding on anyone right now. In order not only to remain a dead letter on paper, I, on the basis of these conclusions, and in accordance with this item of the agenda, I propose to Parliament that we make a single conclusion: - that the report of the Research Commission on the determination of the degree of radiation of poor uranium and the consequences of citizens' health in Bosnia and Herzegovina is referred to the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments and NATO in order to meet and propose measures and activities that would lead to the implementation of the conclusions set out in this report. 98 It means that they are determined according to this report of ours, according to the conclusions that we have stated here in the report, and that they are giving us their proposal to measure what can be done within a certain time limit. I have provided for this deadline in this conclusion that it is on 1.3.2006, and after their determination, we, as Parliament, will determine what time limit it is for these activities to be carried out. Here, that would be the shortest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21796	Thank you. I think this could be a taste of debate, so let's accept the Commission's report with conclusions with this general conclusion that this one is delivered to the addresses and that we're just waiting to see the answer to this important question. Can we conclude a debate with this and vote? Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that unanimously with 29 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions adopted the report of the Research Commission on the determination of the degree of radiation of poor uranium and the consequences of the health of BiH citizens and with the findings of the committee in charge and this general conclusion proposed by counterpart Živković. Moving to the 19th agenda, that's Ad.19. Appointment by three members of the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text: a) Law on the Protection of Personal Data Please name. Mr. Jovanović. Please name the side of the Bosniak, the clubs. Adem Huskić, Miloš Jovanović and Filip Andrić. b) Law on the revision of BiH institutions Živković Milorad, Dušanka Majkić, Rža Sopta and Hazim Felić. c) Consumer Protection Act BiH Tihomir Gligorić, Senija Kapetanović and Vlatka Komšić. Please prepare to vote on all these names for all three committees. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that we unanimously adopted three members to comply with the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of BiH. 99 We move to the 20th item of the agenda, please just a little patience, Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification: a) General agreement on the economic, investment, technical, cultural, sports and youth co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia This is being downloaded, I have information, right. So there's no commission report. So we are going to agree under b) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the Security Procedures for the Exchange of Trusted Information, c) of the Double Citizenship Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Sweden and d) of the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Evo fellow Martin Raguž wishes to explain as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21797	Here as chairman of the commission, so the commission held a session, and since we respected the conclusion of this House that every agreement and prior consent we have a report from the competent ministry, or rapporteur, were provided for these three points that were listed here in the letter that you received, and for this first one there was no one today, so we respect that principle that each of these points was explained and we received information that this would be ready for the next session of 30.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-16-0.u21798	I thank the President of the Commission. I demand, therefore, that we vote in a package for these three agreements where we have vision, the opinion of the commission positively. Do you agree? Prepare to vote. Vote now. - I konstatovati that, in agreement with 29 votes in favour, no one against, no one has given consent to ratification a) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the security procedures for the exchange of confidential information, b) of the Double Citizenship Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Sweden and under the c) of the Protocol amending the European Convention on the control of terrorism. 100 We move to the 21st point of the agenda, that's Ad. 21. A report on the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Intelligence Agency for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2004 /confidential material/ Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time we put this report on the agenda. It is therefore classified material, and we, in accordance with the applicable regulations, must exclude the public when considering this report, but the legal procedure requires that the rapporteur attends this report, therefore the applicant, chairing the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry, for the fourth time we have to take this point off. We will not consider it until we have secured the presence of the promoter and I ask you, at least by some working conclusion, to warn the Council of Ministers that we will not tolerate irresponsibility in such an important area. Can we adopt that conclusion, so we should call on the Council of Ministers that at the next session, this will be the item of the agenda, and unless there is a presence that Parliament will launch responsibility for not attending this point. Do you agree? Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please, let us create. Wait a minute. So I'm saying that with 22 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we've adopted this conclusion, and that's how we've made this point of the agenda for the next session. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little bit, I want to thank you for your patience. We've had a busy day, you've worked a lot, good ideas, contributions. Thank you all. Thank you, especially those who have refrained from the hard words. Next session's 30th this month. It will be plenary, so from 9 to 10 will be the address of current High Representative Pedi Eždaun, and from 10 onwards we will have a regular meeting of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much, and I'll see you at the next session. The session was completed at 18 and 40 hours.
