ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6336	Dear delegates, distinguished guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers and funds of public information, I welcome you and open the 62nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session, there are 14 delegates from each of them 5 from the ranks of the Bosniak and Serbian people and 4 from the Croatian people. The deputy chairman, Jukić, also justified his absence. For the 62nd session, I propose the next amended Agenda 1. Legislative questions and answers and answers to delegate questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 61st session of the House of Peoples, 3. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence of procurement by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the settlement of obligations under the account of the old foreign exchange savings under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Seven. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Hilmo Neimarlija delegates' request to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina after a brief procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 2 9. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law of 21.7.2006. Ten. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law of 2.8.2006. 11. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law on emergency infringements in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 12. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the draft law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, 13. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Central Record and Exchange of Information under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 14. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 12 / 15 Proposal for a drug and medical law for Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 16. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the State Border Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 17. Joint Security Intelligence Commission's work report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency for April 2004-July 2006 18. Ombucmen's Annual Human Rights Report in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, 19. Ombucmen's Special Report on Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Consistency of the Criminal Procedure Act with Article 14(5). International Civil and Political Rights Pact, 20. A special report by the Ombucmen on Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Law on determining and how to settle the internal debt of Republika Srpska and the Law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of the internal obligations of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 21. Information on export-export licences for arms and military equipment issued in 2005, 22. The establishment of the Regulation on International Activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 23. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Office to discuss complaints, expert in the field of public procurement, 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States on the protection of status and access to infrastructure in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their use, 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Hashemid Kingdom of Jordan on air traffic, 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain for crediting the acquisition of contiguous trains "TAUGO" for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways, 3 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes, 28. The appointment of four members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Service and the determination of the duration of their mandates, namely, we have evicted points under the regular number of 15 and 16 respectively. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is proposed by delegates Halid Genjac and Mustafa Pamuk. The Commission has refused the principles of this law and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value, the proposing House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the Commission has not considered the law. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6337	Mr. Chairman, members of the House Presidency, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues of the House, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and others present, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all and wish you a successful, quick and efficient work in this session. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I'd like to inform you of two facts. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at yesterday's 54th session discussed two materials not in this agenda. One is related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act. According to our information, this law has been adopted on the Commission of the House of Representatives and there have been no amendments. He was also, according to our information, adopted in the next session of the House of Representatives. On our committee, too, this law has been discussed and adopted without amendments and I am putting it on the table, possibly, a proposal, the possibility that we should put this law on the agenda today, that we should consider it or, since it is not clear to you, but I still don't understand whether another session of the House of Peoples will be and it would be very bad if this law hadn't been adopted in this assembly. Secondly, in that sense, therefore, if respected colleagues would accept an initiative to supplement this, I propose this agenda to this law to be in position on the 18th. So we have these laws there, the law reviewing, so since this is the law, then that goes in that cycle. And the following was to supplement the agenda of the initiative adopted yesterday on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, which is therefore an initiative on the surplus of funds which will be achieved from revenue from indirect taxes this year. It's about 350 to 400 million marks. The initiative is to suggest, therefore, nothing more than to suggest to the competent institutions of the Federation, Republika Srpska and Brcko District that the funds are directed into, according to the Commission's proposal, into two funds. So one would be part of the pension fund, and the other smaller part would go into social programmes. In fact, if this were to happen according to analyses conducted by experts, there could be an immediate reduction, there could be a reduction of salary tax in the Federation and RS 4 in somewhere by 5-8% and value added tax. This would certainly have extraordinary effects on both the economy and pensioners and further the acceleration of economic development and growth in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this would only be about the initiative complete further activity, changes and additions to the laws which would concern ratios, method of implementation, etc. Everything would be in the hands of the entity and the Brcko District. In this context, the proposal is to place this initiative in place if, therefore, this customs tariff law is to go as 18a. This would be 18.b. If you didn't go to the Customs Taffir Act, then this would be the point after the present point 18. I expect that, since both sides of the Commission have been adopted unanimously, I expect the distinguished colleagues to give support to this proposal and I do not believe that this will put away the House session itself, and it would be extremely important for all that awaits us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6338	I thank my colleague, Čengić. And here I am obliged to tell you that there will be another session in this month's House of Peoples and that, that the members of the college have agreed so that it will be September 20th, so here, if the Proposer agrees, maybe we can leave these two points that he suggested for that term.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6339	If you'll excuse the law, I think that there's no problem in waiting for the House of Representatives' decision. However, when it comes to this initiative, I don't see any reason why we should postpone it for the next time, because this is one initiative, so nothing else, there's no need to agree with another home, and I think if we need to coordinate, the text itself to adapt it, but I think it would be good to leave it for today's session at seat 18a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6340	While I understand you well, colleague Čengić, you are ready, therefore, to leave this proposal for an amendment and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act for the next session, and you will remain with this proposal so that the initiative on the allocation of surplus funds goes to today, so we will...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6341	That's right. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6342	All right, I'll make it clear to home about that. There are still any reports of debates still on the agenda. Nothing. We will now vote on this draft agenda with the addition proposed by counterpart Čengić, so that this point should be classified as 16, as the 17th point, so we will move everything, so please, please join the vote. 5 We'll morati to repeat the vote. So please vote again, there was something wrong. I realize it's been adopted, the agenda's been adopted. Ten for four abstentions. The agenda with the supplement proposed by Mr Čengić was adopted. So we move to the first item of the agenda, that's A1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions Answers to the delegates' questions were received by counterpart Osman Brka and counterpart Tomislav Limov, who received three answers. Are you satisfied with the answers you've received? He's a friend of brkati. I find he's satisfied with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6344	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, the institutions of the international community, public information funds and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I welcome you all together and I would like to express myself on the answer to my envoy issues. I must say that I received an answer to two, practically questions because this third concerns one of those which was subsequently delivered by the cantonal prosecutor Mr Mehmedbašić Nijaz. I will remind my distinguished colleagues that I have asked about the circumstances of the escape of Antun Katušić, the man responsible for the murder of five, five people in Capljina, from the Mostar Clinical Hospital, of course I asked what the relevant institutions have done in terms of possible responsibility. This suggests that institutions were doing their job. So, in particular, this stems from a letter from the cantonal prosecutor and it is evident that a Solomonian solution has been found that this police officer will break up the working relationship by agreement and the prosecutor has not found enough elements to conduct investigative actions in terms of the potential responsibility of this or other participants throughout the process of allowing for the escape of the mentioned citizen of the Republic of Croatia. We are probably the only country in this world that can ensure the kidnapping of persons from the relevant institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this ends, that practically no one is guilty and that there is no further investigation. Unfortunately, this is not the only example. It is also known to you fellow envoys that even a number of war crimes suspects, organised crime, and even some persons who have been in detention have managed, possibly similar or similar channels, to flee to neighbouring countries, and to end the procedures of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and lower levels. Dale, I am dissatisfied with the answer for the simple reason that it is not answered directly to my questions and it is in the answer indicated a whole series of elements which I did not ask. This applies in particular to the very circumstances of insight and so on. Which I didn't ask. 6 Secondly, the second answer referred to my question to the Council of Ministers if it intends to refer the Law on Political Organization at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to parliamentary procedure. In response, the Council of Ministers briefed me on the fact that two different laws apply in Bosnia and Herzegovina, one in '91. One from '96. and did not answer my question whether there is any intention to refer to the parliamentary procedure of one law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to level the criteria and standards of political organisation at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the more I asked directly, and about the possible disabling of the registration and political action of the parties, the associations they aim to implement, as I said to the non-fascist policy, to question territorial integrity, sovereignty, the international legal entity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is evident that this council of ministers does not intend to regulate the problem legally. That's why I'm unhappy with the answer I got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6345	I thank my colleague Limov. Does he have any new delegate questions? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6346	Mr. Chairman, I asked a question about a month and a half ago that I still haven't received an answer, so I'm taking the opportunity to ask that answer to speed up and get it by the end of this term. Namely, the answer is addressed to the chairman of the predsjedsjedsjedve, Mr Sulejman Tihić, and is related to the possible sale of weapons and military equipment to Iraq. I would not repeat all the questions that are contained in this question, since they have already been handed over to you, but I am taking the opportunity to ask you once again to remind you to speed up the answer to this question and to certainly get it by next session of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6347	Thank you. I normally appeal to everyone we've referred these questions to to deliver them to us and to tell them they won't get rid of us so quickly because we'll probably be here another two three months, at least. So, I absolutely support this proposal by Mr. Čengić, so not only the Presidency, but also the Council of Ministers to provide us with all the questions, and there are many answers we have never received from these questions. Any new delegate questions? There isn't. I find that we are, or I conclude this point of the agenda and I move on to the next point, another Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 61st session of the House of Peoples Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. I'm closing and I'm asking you to make a statement on the record. So you can vote. I find it unanimous that the record has been adopted. 7 Third item of the agenda A.3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the use of evidence obtained by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6356	Fellow delegates, guests, I welcome you, and this is my third announcement on this bill. I also need this opportunity to point out that there are reasons for its adoption, but that, as for the first time, neither the second, nor the third time, our home has received a statement from the Management Board without which the law is actually not possible, we can consider it and bring it, but it will be in conflict with these legal acts, the second law and, since I have been promised that this law, with the broader content of the changes, these excises, will indeed be referred to the procedure these days. I will believe that promise but give myself and our home this right to check it by suggesting that this proposal of the law goes into regular procedure because there will be no interference, this one in this regular procedure to await a statement by the Management Board. So please understand colleagues for, for this change of proposal, ways of considering the law. Please. The vote is against the shortened and he automatically goes into the regular procedure. I think so. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6357	It doesn't have to be that way, but if you've only changed this basis to consider it, we accept that it's going into a regular process. It's not 100 anymore, it's 78th.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6358	All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6359	It's just that it's been determined that you've changed the request for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6360	Then you don't have to vote. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6361	So he finds that Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija's motion has withdrawn this proposal for justifiable reasons for this to go according to Article 100, so rather than going into the regular procedure. That's what we're saying and moving on to the next item of the agenda, so we're not voting anything. 11 The next item of the agenda is Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law of 21.07.2016. A debate is being held on whether the law will be considered under a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives adopted that the law is being considered by a shortened procedure. Who's answering for a word? I understand that no one has applied for a word. We vote therefore on the procedure, you can approach the vote. Therefore, a unanimous requirement for this law to be considered in accordance with Article 99 has been adopted. Moving to the tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law of 02.08.2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6371	Dear colleagues, therefore, yesterday the Commission discussed this issue and this initiative and proposed a certain text. Let me read that text and then just draw attention to what was the initiative today to change it a little bit. Therefore, it is proposed that the people's home launch an initiative with the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District that the excess funding of around 400 million converting marks, which will be collected by the end of the year from indirect taxes, was now in the Commission's proposal to account for 80% of pension funds and 20% for social programmes based on coefficients currently in force, 65.9% for the Federation, 31.2% for the RS and 2.9% for the Brcko District. After directing these funds, it is necessary to adopt amendments to the rules which will reduce the salary tax and the profit tax. In view of the fact that perhaps these percentage ratios would be too fixed or perhaps not meet some real interests and needs within entities, the suggestion was to leave out these percentages and to retain their purposes and to add to these two purposes and businesses. So, now, to fix the text, it would read, so it is proposed to the House of Peoples to launch an initiative with the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH, the RS and Brcko District that the surplus funds of around 400 million KM will be collected by the end of the year from indirect taxes, guidelines for pension funds, commas, social programmes and support for economies of coefficients currently valid from 65.9% of the Federation, 31.2% of RS and 2.9% of the Brcko District. More sentences are added, now here, in determining the ratios to allow conditions for reducing pay taxes and profit taxes. And the last sentence, after directing these funds, needs to be made to amend the rules that will reduce pay and profit taxes. An explanation, such a process, with extra funds over planned, for this year and the plan is 3 billion 502 million KM, would avoid spending for short-term purposes and would result in the following effects; a) Threatened categories of population by increasing prices due to VAT introduction, would be helped and brought into a better social position, b) Taxes would be reduced from current 69% in the Federation and 55% in RS by 5% to 8% and profit taxes, even more, c) Funds that would be achieved by reducing pay taxes would remain in the possession of domestic economy for new equipment, expansion of production, more competitive prices, increase in exports, development and new employment, d) Due to the reduction of BiH tax would be more attractive to foreign investment, and e) would lead to further improvement of the country's trade balance. In conclusion, all legal and operational solutions, further related to this, are in the jurisdiction of entities and Brcko District. It would be necessary to start the activity on the implementation of this proposal as soon as possible to apply, so this solution at the beginning, perhaps January-February, March next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6372	We listened to Mr. Čengić. I'm opening a debate. So here comes Mr. Osman Brka, here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6373	I welcome you all, I know this is a good proposal and yesterday I supported it myself, but this addition now that Mr. Čengić has read, I don't know it again, probably with consultations with certain people, but I think, if this third factor is inserted here, it will complicate things. People won't be able to negotiate, so the money might cost you for months, maybe years, until they figure out how to divide them, if it's the third factor. If that were the first two, pensions and social categories, it would be easier to negotiate. And I think the aid is a big one, by reducing the percentage of the contribution, that it's more of a big stimulant, and that it would just complicate with this third factor. Probably more people do it this way, figure it might be good, but I'm thinking this way and that's why I got up to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6374	I'd like to thank Coelga Brk. Anybody else from the delegates want to talk? Mrs. Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6375	Dear gentlemen, we were on the Commission yesterday, although the Commission was not in charge of this item of the agenda, we discussed, given this knowledge, that the surplus revenue would be achieved. But what is evident is that we can only recommend to entities and Brcko district what we would see as a good solution to that, in no way can we influence how they will spend. So I don't think it's that important whether we put this third one or not. We've been thinking that it might be desirable to put that moment on for the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6376	Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6377	He proposed this initiative yesterday, and we all discussed it and supported it. However, the suggestions I received today seem very thorough and reasonable to me and I don't think we should waste any more time. I think that these suggestions that we had today should be classified and that this is how we launch the initiative and, of course, the competent authorities will lead a very thorough debate, probably based on serious analyses, etc. I think the most important thing is to get the effects, and that is, to get to a better level of pension funds, tax cuts, providing significant resources in social programmes, and finally to target a part of the funds for quality aid or incentives to the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6378	I'd like to thank my colleague, Čengić. Any other delegates? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 16 Mr Hurtić appeared before the Council of Ministers, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6379	Thank you very much. I want to say in front of the Council of Ministers, we absolutely support the initiative. This is something that we have spoken publicly, so that we should wait until the end of the year first, to make an analysis of how much VAT-based funding will really be, because all of this information we have so far still doesn't guarantee that a certain amount we're talking about might be by the end of the year, but I'm saying it's certainly an initiative that can be relevant for next year. So, we also agree with what the lady said and what Mr. Čengić said. Therefore, the basis should be a reduction in the tax on businesses. It is these two taxes Mr. Čengić was talking about, because we think it will affect growth multiplely, primarily investment growth, employment growth and employees will then act positively on income growth based on the pension fund. We would just like to take the opportunity here to maybe say two things to the MPs, not wanting to influence the initiative or to change the initiative but simply as information to you that when it comes to social programmes, we think that we should also use some of the funds to do so but above all for those social programs that will aim to ensure the restructuring of businesses because you know that any restructuring of businesses will also follow a particular social programme to speed up privatisation and conversion of ownership in this sector which is now a major problem. Finally, when it comes to the Federation, we think that the Federation should get to the Children's Fund Act as soon as possible, on the Children's Protection Fund as Republika Srpska has as one strong instrument of social protection that is now not present in the Federation. And what I think is something urgent to do right now, we think that all the funds, first of all in the Federation, cantonal health care funds, should be secured from the funds that they are already receiving from the subsidy cantons based on the VAT payments they are currently doing. So we have a situation that cantonal health care institutions are already paying VAT, but unfortunately they have not yet received a subsidy from the cantonal governments, so we can come to one situation that perhaps the services provided by cantonal institutions can be reduced. That's what we think has the conditions for action now. So we fully support the initiative, as defined. We've given some information that we think should be done but without intending to change the text of the initiative, but we're giving it to you just as an information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6380	I thank Mr Hurtić. Is there a need to make someone. There's no such thing as reported. Now we're going to make a statement about this proposal that our initiative committee has put forward, and here I've already taken action to get the technical service, so prepare this for us, this correction, and that we have in writing all of this, to get to the end of this session, that is, as soon as possible. So we can vote now on the proposal. Open vote, now. I unanimously conclude that we have adopted this initiative, which is for the benefit of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 17 We move to the eighteenth point of the agenda, Ad.18. A report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission to monitor the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Agency for the period April 2004. – July 2006 A report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission on the surveillance of the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Agency has been received. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the work of the Commission for the period April 2004. - June 2006. I give my word to the President of the Commission to Mr Limov. Here's a colleague of Limov. Forty-five minutes, I'll turn off your microphone if forty-five minutes, I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6382	Thank you for your suggestion, Mr. President. I'm still going to try not to make it forty-five minutes to make it shorter, even as much as possible to be far shorter. Namely, distinguished colleagues are before you a full report by the Commission on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Intelligence Agency for the period from April 2004 to July 2006. I, of course, do not need to talk about the content of the report itself because you received it in time and could see that and what we were doing and how we did it. I would, of course, like to take this opportunity and introduce you to some of the elements that I appreciate should be respected and accepted in the context of the report itself, and in order to leave this committee and this assembly of this House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the House of Representatives has done, to the next assembly of a particular platform, I would say, for further addition and construction of the contents and methods of work of this commission. In any case, as you know, this commission has been established under the law. It is mandatory, according to that same law, to meet at least twice a year. We did it, ate more, because we held 13 sessions and discussed at these sessions a problem that had been raised by the legal obligation itself and the need for the functioning of the institution for which we had been monitoring over the past period. Of course, we have prepared, at the request of the OSCE, and in accordance with the conclusion of our 13th session, a specific supplement relating to the various statistical indicators related to participation in each of the members of the commission's work. I would like to inform this House that all members of the House of Nations, all six of them, have fulfilled their obligation in a way that they have participated in the work of at least eight sessions. Of course, one single member from another home was a participant of all four sessions which should be reported, above all by the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, the College of course implies, and in order to leave these elements to be convened on the basis of which members of this committee will be elected and in the next period, of course, in the event that they are in competition, so to say, in the case of the renewal of the mandate. And I owe it here, and I want to make it very clear that the commission, according to NATO standards, had no conditions to function, and these standards involve certain security regarding the protection of information of a secret character whose commission is a user. So 18 of us didn't have the technical conditions to keep it properly. It certainly is from the preparations for signing, not only of a security agreement or of an Agreement on Divergence between NATO and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also of the functioning of even some domestic institutions, so to speak, because we were in a situation to obtain certain documents from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and also of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we did not have adequate protection of that data. And I'm saying this for a simple reason that, first of all, the Council of Ministers has not shown a proper relationship to this commission's needs, and practically in the last year and a half, I as chairman and my two deputies couldn't realize the conclusion of the Commission itself because the chairman of the Council of Ministers didn't find it necessary, however you will, to see us and to talk about creating conditions for the normal functioning of this commission. We have, in the light of the suggestions in the final consideration of this supplement, said certain specific elements we appreciate that it is necessary to meet and that the commission in the next meeting would function as best-qualityly as possible. I personally estimate that, as part of what is called the content of the intelligence reform, we have accomplished our task for these first two years of our functioning and have created assumptions that Bosnia and Herzegovina has fulfilled in the coming period everything that is expected of it and in terms of carrying out the obligations that will legitimise us as a credible candidate, not only for the Partnership for Peace, but for what is our ultimate goal, which is joining the European Union, joining the NATO alliance. There is no connection and there is no use of data that has a secret character available to us by the European Union and the NATO Alliance which should be available to us, unless we make additional efforts and in the coming period we create all assumptions for the proper functioning of this commission. We were also as self-critical as you saw in the report and in a certain way made it known that we were fully aware that what was done was done but also that it was necessary to introduce ourselves further in the sense that, those elements that make up the interest and need of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are more aggressively working and personally regretting that, and that Mr Gregorijan pointed out these days, Bosnia and Herzegovina did not make an operational plan based on which Karlo Del Ponte would report, reported relevant institutions in terms of full cooperation with the obligations arising from our relationship with The Hague tribunal and so that Bosnia and Herzegovina would be accepted as a starting point in the Partnership for Peace. I remind you that at the June summit in Istanbul, Bosnia and Herzegovina was very close and that it was then said that due to technical matters, which concerned the location of those two most wanted, but of course other war criminals, we did not, as a state, fulfill our mission and remain, in a certain way, in an amanet of the next assembly of both Parliament and executive authorities and implies the commissions that will succeed us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6383	I would like to thank the chairman of the Limov Commission, and please, Mr Pajić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6384	My colleagues, colleagues, delegates, respected presidency, respected guests, of course I am a member of this committee, and when we adopted this report we all actively participated in this and of course I supported this report and we supported it at the session of this joint commission, but I would only like to give Mr Limov a brief warning and replica. I don't think it's a good 19 to make such statements. Now you've mentioned a break for two war criminals. Everyone who's a suspect and there's no dispute. But until proven guilty, someone is not guilty, it's not good and it shouldn't be like this in public appearances and one delegate or, as we will, an MP in a high house to pre-qualify that someone is a war criminal until he's brought to trial and proved guilty.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6385	I thank Mr. Pajić. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6386	Of course, you're absolutely right, and I respect your observation, so, in that sense, I'm correcting. I said I did two and the others, you of course recognized who it was. So, the formulation is that it is suspected persons of war crimes that The Hague tribulan is seeking and in this respect the context is and in this respect the meaning of my statement was in the direction of fulfilling our obligation to make an operational plan. And that's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6387	I thank Mr. Limov. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6388	I'm sorry to have to say what the world knows here. There's so much evidence that Mr. Limov didn't make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6389	That's the opinion of the Brk delegate. I'm closing the debate. I don't see anyone checking in. So we can vote now on the Joint Security Intelligence Commission's report. Join the vote, please. I find it unanimous that we adopted this report. We're going to the 19th point of the agenda. That's Ad.19. Omdusmen's Annual Human Rights Report in BiH for 2004 You have received the Ombdusmen's Annual Human Rights Report in BiH for the year mentioned, the House of Representatives adopted this report. I can tell that there is an ombudus Mr. Ljubić here. Dadkle, do you need an ombudusman, Mr. Ljubić, to address if I don't open the debate? Well, if there's any questions. Is anyone answering for a word in this report? Mr. Pajić, please. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6391	So I'd just like to take the opportunity, the report, well it's a 2004 report, there's a lot of data and there's a lot of things that are currently,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6392	I'm sorry, I have to interrupt, Mr. Pajić. We don't have a quorum. I'm sorry, I thought Mr. Limov was leaving us. I'm sorry, go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6393	I'm saying, there's a lot of data in the 2004 report, but at this point, we know that a lot of what was negative, citizens' complaints about many things that were happening back then, which were actual in one part, are no longer current. One part of these things has been repaired or resolved as property rights have been avoided, displaced persons etc. But there's one other thing, where right now, at this point, other things might appear. Let's say again one part of the problem, I want to point out the evasive and displaced persons and, in particular, one huge problem of employees and their complaints about everything that has happened in the last few years from working-law relations, that is, their working-law status. But it doesn't matter, I would appeal now, we now have this report as it is, but I would take advantage of this opportunity for the future authorities, those who, after these elections, are the authorities at the entity and state level, to pay a little more attention to a problem that has never been current at all and has not been given any attention to it, which is one of the rights under Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, paves of refugees and displaced persons. Of course, all of those rights, we know that they are, so far in the past, have been done to help the return of refugees and displaced persons, much less in a sustainable landscape, and almost in no way has the right of all the refugees and displaced persons to choose the place of life and to stay where they are at the moment. I think that in the future period, and there are a lot of those that I don't know, that maybe in the past year or whether, as far as it's concerned right now, in the ombdusmen and at one level and at another, but I think it's current and that in some future period, you should make a significant effort to help these people, who, so who were refugees and displaced persons, but now they've chosen their place of life, where they want to live, they've acquired some property, many have married, they've made a house, they've bought something, and so on. And to enable them to help in that part too to help them choose a place of life and to form a special fund for the fair compensation of the destroyed property. I suppose there are a lot of these complaints, and I also know that there are also disputes before the courts, even the International Court in Strasbourg, on the matter of the compensation for the destroyed property, I say so far there has been nothing and I appeal that, in the near future, perhaps from the first summoning of the new Council of Ministers and new authorities, a fund for a fair compensation in the war of destroyed property, so that these people are compensated for what was destroyed, for which they are not guilty. That's it. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6394	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. I would very much like to promise you on behalf of the future government that we will do so. Of course, we'll see about that. So, the debate is also under way with regard to the Ombdusmen Annual Report. Do we have any more reports? We don't. So, I'm closing the debate on this report and I'm opening a vote. You can approach the vote. All right, I figure we're unanimous, so I'm sorry one is restrained and 11 is in favour. So this special report, the Ombdusmen report, was accepted. Moving to the next point of the 20th, agenda. Ad.20. BiH Human Rights Ombdusmen's Special Report on the Consistency of the Criminal Procedure Act with Article 14(5). International Pact on Civil and Political Rights You've received this special report. The House of Representatives adopted that report. So, I'm opening a debate. I give my word to Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6396	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, of course I will not be taking up your precious time now, but I will repeat in a certain way what I said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission itself. I support everything that BiH's ombudus for human rights has indicated in this special report, and I particularly support this section concerning the conclusion and recommendations. There are recommendations, as is evident, to give very specific tasks, and in order to bring our legislation into line with the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, it is our obligation, and it is really worrying that BiH is the farthest in terms of proper formulation and should be here and I want to say it here, it is quite clear that in this respect we can see ourselves in the RS which, therefore, in its legislation, has fulfilled this part in accordance with the relevant standards. It's basically a three-month deadline, and I really don't know when that deadline is going, but I'd like to personally get the proper changes and additions done as soon as possible. And perhaps, something I didn't say at the Constitutional and Legal Committee session, but here I will, it might be good when we bring appropriate legal solutions that, in a phase before they are adopted in a certain way, they look at the ombudsmen for human rights and help us because we are often as legislators and envoys, as you wish, we are not in a situation where in a legal sense we take all the solutions that we are offered, and in the past, we have been told that this is in accordance with European legislation, so in this sense, this may be my appeal and the ombdusman to engage in certain phases before we enter into certain legal solutions rather than to postfestum, in this way saying that something is not 22 in line with international conventions and other legal acts that we are obliged to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6397	Thank you very much to my colleague Limov. Next, is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate and I'm inviting you to come forward so here's the special report. You can vote. I understand that we unanimously adopted this special Ombdusmen report. We move on to the next Human Rights Special Report, that's the point under regular number 21. So, Ad.21. Human Rights Ombdusmen's Special Report in BiH on the Law on determining and how to settle the internal debt of the RS and the Law on determining and how to reconcile the internal obligations of the Federation of BiH You've received this report. The House of Representatives adopted this report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. So we vote on this special report. Join the vote, please. I agree that we adopted the Special Report. We're moving to the 22nd point of today's agenda. That's Ad.22. Information on export licences issued, i.e. imports of arms and military equipment in 2005
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6401	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH, I comment on the rule on international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, general remarks. The main of the general remarks concerns the Common Commission's position on BiH's defence and security in this Regulation. In other words, in this Regulation next to the three above-mentioned committees, two home foreign affairs commissions and the Joint Commission for European Integration do not find a regulated role of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, which had an extremely large international activity in the previous period. In fact, this activity was initiated by international institutions responsible for the defence and security areas of NATO, the OSC, UNDP, DIKA, EUFOR and others, as well as this commission itself. A programme of co-operation with the OSC and the NAOT was also agreed for the following year. The Joint Commission, looking at the results achieved and without false modesty, has been the most active and best commission of this parliament in the past. The commission has achieved more or at least as much international contacts and co-operation as the foreign affairs commission. It is therefore truly inconclusive to deliver in the procedure this Regulation on which all commissions have not made their observations and opinions and where this commission does not have its defined role. Moreover, this way of regulating the position of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security represents a kind of provocation and ignoring of its position, and thus gives a clear signal to the international community that BiH is interested in joining the Partnership for Peace and then to the NATO alliance for which everyone declares themselves. I propose that the House of Peoples should not confirm with this content, but that this Regulation should be returned to the procedure for supplementing or supplementing itself immediately by regulating the position of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, in the manner that it is regulated and the role of the above three committees. I have a specific, don't be angry with some colleagues, uh, here's how I've exposed the dissatisfaction of the members of the Commission. If nothing, at least someone should have asked this commission to give some of its own, I also have concrete proposals, changes in certain members, etc. But I have agreed with the chairman of the Commission of the administrative and financial and our home, that this remark should be incorporated into the Regulation on international activities and that we should also accept this proposal in that variant. 24 Behold, that is the least said, this I am on behalf of all the members of the Commission we felt a little eskicipated. This commission had, here's a colleague of Limov's said that the Intelligence and Security Committee had 12-13 sessions. The Defence and Security Commission held 38 sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6402	Thank you to Mr Šiljegović, with a deep understanding of what Mr Šiljegović said, I don't think we can accept these suggestions in this way. So we have to vote on something and then we'll get, we'll get different texts. I think the only solution here is if there's an agreement of course in the House to go back to finishing this rule or to vote it out so that they can go change and supplement and be. The debate is under way. Idati give you all my word. I now give the first word to the President of the Commission, then to Mr. Zrn, then to Mr. limov, then to Mr. Brk. Stand by.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6403	Thank you. I'll be brief, and making this rule took a very long time. The moment I came to this home, which was a year and 3 months ago, this rule was already on the table and was already in discussion. First, he was examined by the Foreign Affairs Commission at home. The House of Representatives Commission had no objections to that regulation, our commission, our home had a series of objections which were later put in place on this committee of administration. I must remind you that according to the previous Rules of Procedure, there was no commission, and probably for this reason it was not even taken into account here, and secondly I must remind you that we were simply not obliged to give this to the Administrative Commission to confirm home, but it was some conclusion by all the members of the committee, given the very difficult work and constantly some suggestions and new remarks every moment. The Administrative Commission intended to complete this Regulation within the framework of its mandate, given that it had been two years, that it would take us two years to make that regulation, and we thought, since we had launched a series of initiatives from the colleges' opinions and beyond, that they would supply us with their comments and suggestions in due time on the addition of this Regulation, that we could never reach a whole text, the remarks and that they would eventually act on them, that this Regulation could always be upgraded and complemented by any objection and suggestion that is valid, normal. We thought we'd adopt this rule anyway, give it to the homes for confirmation, and this one right here, that we'd challenge this reaction. That all those who have observations deliver it to us so that we could install it in this rulebook at the next session of the commission. And it won't have to go back to confirmation in this home. I thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6404	Thank you, Mrs. Ruža, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6405	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, guests, just a few sentences in favor of what counterpart Boško said. In support of the finding that the rule that we hear from my colleague ruža was long made was indeed not 25 made, it was not made, it was not done, it was not done. In fact, it was one preterm that did not take care absolutely of the needs of this Parliament and of the action in this Parliament. And that's why I'm really against this rule in the beginning. We have no right to bring what is not... what we would like and what this house needs. If it's long done, let it be done for another month and then let it be done as we do, as we need it. No basic elements were taken here. I'm not just talking as a member of this committee, I'm talking about the need for this commission to exist. If there was no commission two years ago, two years ago there were no joint armed forces, there was no single defence ministry. We haven't talked about the security and security system in this country, and that's the process that's going on, that hasn't even started well, not that it's over. We never talked here about mines or mines in this country. This commission also takes care of this, many more and many of the contents that are set. Eliminate it from the process, I am now generally speaking, from the process of bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the European Union and especially from these special associations of PEPU and NATO alliances would be, at the very least, unserious because this commission has its task. If necessary we will also deliver the work programme even for next year, regardless of who will achieve it during this coming period. We probably won't, some will, but I'm saying, this commission has to stay in the fullness of its invitations and e-mails. Work on, at least so far, reforms that are, as well, marked as the most significant reforms in this country. And that is why I join and absolutely support everything that my colleague Šiljegović said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6406	Thank you, colleagues, for the Zrn. I give my word to my colleague Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6407	Well, Mr. Zno helped me out, so I'm not going to say anything again. The same argument or very similar argument could be made on behalf of the Commission for Intelligence Security, Surveillance of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Intelligence Agency and the Commission, that without the international cooperation of these two commissions, or, if you will, in the broadest sense, it is possible to meet what is expected of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, this is, in my opinion, an incomplete approach to this issue. I would personally support the proposal to make this come back, to give the possibility to supplement this rule. If it's so much worked on it, it's not sugar in the water, let's do it a little bit more, but let's make a whole document. Before this session, I spoke to one of the representatives of the international community about the very concrete proposals of international cooperation of this, this commission that is necessary especially in our region but also in relation to the countries that can certainly help us with their experience, this and in that sense, so if it remains as is the rule, I personally am not inclined to support it. It'd be better if he stayed alive and it'd be better if we had a chance to complete it. As far as we're concerned on the committee, we're ready to quickly fit into the overall activity of improving this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6408	I thank my colleague Limov. Before I say anything to my colleague, "Brk," here's what I'm thinking about, all these suggestions, what and in what way, that I end up as chairman, this well. We have a few variations here. So there's this variant that we're going to adopt this 26 rule so we can actually confirm how Mrs. Ruža suggested that this change further. We have another way to get him back to work so we can adopt him in our session so that we can do 20 in our session, but then we have him in different texts with the House of Representatives, and then we have to bring him into line. That is evident, this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly cannot do but I think it is a step further and let this new House of Representatives when it is established together with us agree that text and perhaps that is the best solution. So here's my proposal to go back to finishing this text of this rulebook. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6409	I'm grateful, and I can't help but say two, three sentences. I really fully agree with what Mr. Šiljegović and Mr. Zno said and you have completed. I'm about to get it done by the next session and that's how it ends. I could really talk a lot more, there's no need. I think it's only right and fair to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6410	Mr. President, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6411	I really need to say it one more time. The commission's obligation wasn't to deliver it to home confirmation. But we wanted to just because there weren't any interventions like this. Here's Mr. Brka. He's a member of this committee. He hasn't told us yet, administrative, you know. We wanted to cause it this way, that simply those who have objections to make it now. The Administrative Commission shall work together on the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. So at the next session, we'll take all your remarks and install them into this rulebook. And that rule will be so important, so important. There will be no need to bring the House of Nations into line and the House of Representatives into line. I think it's best for me to confirm it, too. And you give your comments and suggestions to the next session by the 20th, I promise you we'll have this Joint Commission and we'll put it in and we'll give you those regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6412	Well, here's what I'm gonna
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6413	Anyway, this is the one I told you about when I first came to this house I found a proposal for a rulebook like this. There were a lot of interventions and sending regulations to each other's colleges at home and commissions. We had the only answer from Mr. Čengić's commission whose member and Mr. Brka and we had a lot of objections that were incorporated into this rule. Everyone else has remained in total silence until today. And I ask you, therefore, for the sake of understanding that this home, at the end of the review, constantly raises the question that we have arranged these regulations. And we ended up saying that we're here somewhere in the construction phase, so I figured, if the House of Representatives confirmed it, we'd confirm it, and we'd, in accordance with our jurisdiction, to supplement it in the way we get suggestions and remarks. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6414	I have also consulted with the secretary at home, there is no need for us to confirm this document, and here we have debated this and I would like the commission to appreciate all of this, all of the discussions and here are a lot of the members of this committee who are present here and I would not say at all about any confirmation of this proposal. I'd move on to the sitting part of the agenda because you said there wasn't. So we're moving on to the next item of the agenda and I'm asking you to consider this all about what they're respected about. Ask the college a question. We're going to the 24th agenda, that's Ad.24. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Office to discuss complaints from experts in the field of public procurement You have received a proposal for a member of the Office to discuss the complaint submitted by the Council of Ministers. At the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives appointed Nikolika Selak an expert in the field of public procurement as a member of the Board of Appeals. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6416	Given that it is an extremely important commission, which, by its incomplete composition and by its inactivity, produces a series of tremendously difficult consequences for BiH public enterprises, I would only be present if someone has here from the Council of Ministers, to respond because we have two memos from the Council of Ministers. One since 19.04 and the other is from 04.08, these memos. This letter by the Council of Ministers of 19.04 states that a commission was appointed on 22.02.2005, etc. At the same time, this, meanwhile, two members of the Office submitted an irrevocable resignation for personal health reasons, namely Mrs. Jasminak Putica and Mr. Blago Bošnjak. Then, in the light of the fact that the Commission for the Implementation of Procedures, Competitions and Preparation of the list of candidates for the selection of members is a review of the re-election of members of the Office, from the order of experts for public and procurement of 15.02., we propose that the procedure for the appointment of new members be put forward in accordance with the procedure for accepting the resignations of those members, in order to create the conditions for the start of work as soon as possible. That's one letter from April of the month. We now have from August a proposal for a member of the line of experts in the field of public procurement and a proposal to name Mrs. Nikolina Silak. I am asking, are these members who have resigned, is the list, is the composition of the Commission complete? Do we now appoint only one member by appointment? Two unsettled members remain. Is the appointment procedure termed as requested in accordance with the needs of the resignations? In one word, will this appointment today mean that we still have an incomplete commission, that we continue to hate the commission, that we still have to wait a few months in public enterprises to get rid of complaints about purchases, and therefore there are no conditions that 28 public enterprises of elemental function are finally performing, and why is this and who is responsible for what we are doing, this, after the resignations that there are several, I don't know, 8 months today we're just solving one member of the order of public procurement experts and it's not resolved after six or eight months, the question of two members who resigned? Because this is what you believe in public enterprises that have to accomplish, it has terrible devastating consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6417	I thank my fellow Genjac. I give my word to Mrs. Ruža Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6418	I don't know where to start now because last session of the commission I started with a delegate question, because I didn't know how we could solve this problem, so I started with this delegate issue and we ended up in the conclusion that this is exactly how it was done, the conclusion of this home. That's what we're looking for. That's what the predstavnički of Representatives adopted, and we should adopt it today. And that's essentially just an out-of-the-way solution that this office can do until it's re-constituted as the law says. Because, if you remember, we have extended the importance of the Public Procurement Act in three or four times, which says that it is done by the competent ministries to consider these complaints, and then, finally, when the Office of Public Appeals was established, two members resigned, one member was not named. Last time we appointed this one member from the Serb people, two members remained unfulfilled, and that is, the office remained with a total of 3 members, of which 2 were from the Bosniak people, 1 from the order of the Serb people, the newly appointed one, so that it could function, or in order to work at all, there were at least 4 members. Since we have received the conclusion that the second one is on the ranking list, it was this particular lady who is being proposed today for her appointment, in order to achieve those minimum conditions for the functioning Offices for Appeals and according to a report by the Office for Appeals, that is to say, the Director for Public Procurement, there were already about 350 outstanding complaints at the time. So the Public Procurement Act was essentially totally stiff. To overcome this situation, we asked the Council of Ministers to deliver to us a new member of the Croatian people who meets these conditions, to temporarily bridge it until a public competition is re-opened, until the procedure is re-implemented, and we said that the one who is temporarily appointed to that office can apply for that place again and again. So this is fully in line with what this home last time asked for, and I ask you, here, since I am in the process of public procurement of the law, these certain amendments, and that this is a competent commission, that we simply realize that there is a huge problem and that someone can instruct us that someone is doing this consciously to disable this complete system of public procurement. If we still take the full audit reports to be based mainly on the gaps in public procurement, and the procedure and we knowingly or unconsciously distract them and bring them into this track, I really think we're on the right track with this appointment today, that at least we'll temporarily overcome it because we'll remind you, we've accepted the resignation of these people that we've been before, in the previous session and we didn't assign them to remain in the technical mandate until it's done properly under the law. 29 So this is necessary, especially in this pre-election time and time to establish a new home and sign a new ad and procedure of 8 months, believe me, this was the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6419	I thank Mrs. Ruža. Are there any more discussions that have been reported? There isn't. So we vote on it, namely we vote on the appointment of Nikoline Selak as a member of the Office to consider complaints. Join the vote. I find it unanimous, so we've chosen Mrs. Selak as a member of the office to consider complaints. Moving to agenda 25, Ad.25. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States on the Protection of Status and Access to Infrastructure and Areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their Use You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Agreement. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6421	So, as you said, Mr. Chairman, the Commission has been considering, the Foreign Trade Policy Commission has been considering this agreement and has given majority of votes consent to it. This agreement allows the United States to use infrastructure and areas on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory for its military purposes. In the explanation we had on the commission, it was said that a number of important elements, technical, operational, etc. be defined earlier. Allow me, when I have already reported that, while respecting and accepting the position of the committee delivered here in the report, I should state my personal position on this agreement and say the following: I think it is very important that Bosnia and Herzegovina has every, every form of co-operation with the United States, politically, economically, culturally. We have benefited greatly from the engagements of the United States in the course of the war, especially during the period of peace-building, adoption of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and since then in the great aid of the United States through grand funds, credit funds, technical co-operation, etc. including major and significant co-operation and assistance in the area of restructure of defence and armed forces ministries in Bosnia and Herzegovina until a new law is passed. 30 So, the military units of the United States have, as a rule, been in the international force since the Dayton Agreement until today and, as far as I know, still have their units in the composition of international forces. This agreement, therefore, defines the position and possibility and the law of the United States of America to, and in case a full withdrawal of international military forces from Bosnia and Herzegovina occurs today or tomorrow, on the basis of this US military structure agreement too, may be present on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's also beneficial, both for stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so for even better co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States, so if you want to continue to stabilise relations in the region. So, this agreement is, by intensity, a common agreement. However, it is significantly different from the agreements signed between NATO and other NATO member states. I will not have a broad and long debate on the pro-azum that I believe is important to give the foundations and the basis for co-operation, and the bilateral agreement between Bosnia and Herecegovina with the United States has, of course, serious and international and political but also legal repression. So, the United States considers Bosnia and Herzegovina a partner with whom they can sign contracts of this nature, therefore in the area of military co-operation. However, according to my assessment, this agreement has more shortcomings, but this time I will say only three, not for the sake of this debate, not because I think something can change at this time, but simply because these issues are serious and it is quite certain that it would be very useful, if not in the, in the very near future, that Bosnia and Herzegovina still specify these issues in order not to be vague. First, this agreement gives immunity to members of the civil and military forces of the United States. That immunity is very, very clearly specified in Article 5, so there will be no more than that, so immunity will be given to the armed forces. What is important is that it is defined by the agreement that the United States, the United States Armed Forces of the United States of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will also have so-called. Contractors of the United States of America. It will be companies that are not from Bosnia and Herzegovina and employees in those companies that are not from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Employees in those companies that are not from Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time they sign a contract for the United States have all rights of immunity as well as citizens of the United States of America in the armed forces in the United States. I personally believe that this is a possible source of major problems, and I think that one is given the position of immunity to the citizens of the United States of America over whom the jurisdiction of the United States stands, and the other is given immunity to the citizens of any country other than the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think a formula like this is very broad and I'm afraid it could cause serious repercussion. There are very different experiences in the world, from the experience of rape, rape of women and girls to the experience of abugreib and the establishment of camps where the citizens, no, therefore not the citizens of the United States, participated in what the US judicial authorities now consider to be criminal acts and lead the proceedings against them. The second element I want to talk about is related to Article 2. In the last sentence, it is said literally this way "access to infrastructure and areas and their use will be secured 31 without compensation". In other words, for the purposes of these, the realization of this dispute can be used ports, airports and roads. They can use areas. Areas are very undefined and vague. They can be meadows, they can be cornfields, they can be hills, mountains, forests, there's nothing that can't be. I could be some parts of the city and so on. depends on the need and condition. However, first of all it will be quite safe, so housing buildings and equipment storage facilities, techniques and so on. Outside the airport, off-port and off-roads all these facilities can be used month, year or as far as this agreement is concerned. This Agreement shall only be in force for an initial period of one year, i.e. if, within the next 6 months of the year, it is not practically broken up. In other words, this means that the current military infrastructure, so barracks, warehouses, warehouses, etc. for which the United States shows interest, can be used without compensation for a year or more years or decades. This means that we can get into a situation where the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina both when they want and when they decide they can't privatise and secure income from it, nor can they reint them to anyone else because they will be busy and there will be no fees. You know in some other business, I've known a few cases in the last two years a certain number of people have been processed by something that would be called a harmful contract, so the conclusion of a harmful contract. Is it really possible that we can, for an indefinite period of time, provide so much, so much infrastructure., we don't know how much, watch out, maybe for a month, maybe a year we don't know how long but theoretically, theoretically very, very, very long without any compensation. And the third element, which I think is very important and can also have repercusions in the international position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the future, is related to Article 7(4), the last sentence says this way: "Flyers and ships of the United States will be released from control. So not only will the fees for landing and take-off be released, entering the port, using the port, etc., i.e. will be paid minimally, but here will be released from any control. You know that the Council of Europe has put Bosnia and Herzegovina on the list of several countries that have violated the standards and principles of the Council of Europe for illegal transport, for illegal transmutation of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and perhaps some others from territory, or through Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory into US camps. Or camps controlled by U.S. military or civilian authorities. So this solution opens up the possibility that we do not have information about what is going on in aircraft or ships, who, therefore, are being transported to them and where they are transported, imports to Bosnia and Herzegovina, exports, etc. We do not have the opportunity to use, control the infrastructure used there, and we can come into a situation tomorrow that some of these behaviours break the standards of the Council of Europe again, and this could also have repercusions to the negotiations between Bosnia and Herzegovina with the EU. I hope that such abuses will not occur, but I think it would be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina to try and find forms and instruments to protect itself from any such events. That means, in my assessment, we should and should continue the talks in which we will ensure guarantees that Bosnia and Herzegovina will in no way be brought into a potentially awkward and inappropriate position in relation to negotiations with the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6422	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Here you go, Mr. Pajić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6423	So here's my colleague and colleague delegates when I read this agreement, I was going to say something, but exactly what Mr. Čengić was talking about, that's exactly what I wanted to say and I wouldn't repeat it. For all these reasons, precisely the essence of the agreement, this agreement is the very members, Article 2, Article 5, Article 7, which constitute the essence of the agreement. That's disastrous. I must say, we had these forces that provided peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which included armed forces of the United States, were SFOR, AJFOR etc. And before, the APTF and these Umprofors and I don't know what it's all about. The forces have left EUFOR's forces. So get out of this European part. I now do not know why so many powers are given to the armed forces of the United States if we already have EUFOR forces in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will be cared for as long as it is necessary to implement, or ensure peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All that Mr. Čengić was saying again I am going back to these three members, Articles 3, 5 and 7 are disastrous. It is unacceptable to give immunity for the execution of criminal acts of any kind and to enable them to do so, in the beginning of such an example to the members of the armed forces and other structures that are in the composition of these forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina in advance when they know they will have immunity and are ready and will be able to do whatever they want, kill, rape, rob, will not respond. I think it's inappropriate one such agreement is really a harmful, harmful agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, and I'm not going to take part in it, I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6424	I give my word to my colleague Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6425	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I welcome the other colleagues of the others present who are monitoring our work today. So very briefly, then. I listened to Mr. Čengić, who put his opposition to certain provisions of this contract very convincingly, not saying that, in general, there should be no such interstate contract. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina with the United States. I only reported for reasons that I hold that not all of Mr. Čengić's fears are well-founded and well-founded in relation to the work-legal engagement of others when the contract between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina is, and when they are carrying out certain activities here, when it is given unpaid use of the infrastructure, so these fears are unfounded for a simple reason, this is an interstate agreement between the US and BiH, which can be broken in a regulated manner as well as with other BiH-based states. So, if there is a provision in this agreement or contract, so when 180 days are announced within a reasonable period of time by Bosnia and Herzegovina that it no longer wishes to have such a contract, then it is sent to the diplomatic route where it is due and that contract is practically one Contracting Party when it cancels within the prescribed deadline and in a prescribed manner, I apologize, then there is no more. And I don't think it's the right finding of how some infrastructure facilities are going to be given in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the United States, their forces, their companies, are going to go in and not pay for it, so it's not chargeable and 33 is eternal. So there's nothing eternal in life, and this contract we're discussing today has made it clear how you can break the contract that we're talking about here today. My colleagues from the SDA are very funny, but I am talking about the legal provisions of an act that is on the agenda today and which provides such an opportunity. If it provides such an option, an agreement between Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina or Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. I don't see any reason why the legal norm would be interpreted differently in such an agreement when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the superpowers and the super-supervised United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6426	I give my word to Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6427	What is the term demagogy in Croatian? .../decrease/
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6428	I would interpret this question as something that's funny. So, I've been talking very seriously about a very serious act that's on the agenda with us. The act has its name and last name and it is an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina on protection, says status and access to and use of infrastructure and areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And my word, I said, was therefore related to Article 14 of this Agreement. I'll interpret that as an answer. This is not a joke and it's nothing funny, this is a very serious legal norm in an interstate legal act. It says – this agreement takes effect on the day when Bosnia and Herzegovina has diplomatically informed the United States that all internal procedures necessary for its entry into force have been carried out. You see, this agreement will have a start date of one year. After that, it will continue to apply, and now it says a very important thing that I was talking about, unless one of the parties terminates it 180 days after sending a written notice to the other party diplomatically. So that's what I'm talking about. The second thing is, it's not a demagogue, I guess, at 11 months last year, so our clerk, so I try many times to replace Dr. Ivanic signed it with US Secretary of State Kondoliz Rajs. So it's not demagogy, because the two ministers of the two states did demagogue work. And I do the demagogue work for you because you don't know it, or you don't want to know I'm explaining the legal norm and the possibility of breaking up the legal act that we're talking about here today. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6429	I give my word to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6430	34 [[speaks from place doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6431	Well, since he has different opinions, and we had this on the Commission, I'm looking for a half-hour break in front of the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6432	Nothing, I'm taking a break. He's right about the club chief. If this is a break, then this is a lunch break, then we'll give it an hour. I'm taking a break until 3 and 15. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We've stopped at the 25th point of the agenda. The head of the Croatian People's Club Mr. Anto requested a break. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6433	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm before this break, and here's after the break the Croatian Club of Representatives was clear about the definition, so about this contract, normally in a positive sense, and in line with Mr Filipović's discussion, and I don't think it's disputed. It's just that there's been a lot of different discussions here, and it's just that, in peace, we can make a quality decision, or we can support this contract that's already on the agenda. However, Mr. Chairman, I object to you for allowing individual MPs to declare your fellow representatives in serious discussion and in serious intent, demagogues. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6434	Okay, I'll take the review. I see Mr. Vinko Radovanović answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6435	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so here I would support Mr. Ilija's opinion that this contract as well as anyone else has the possibility of breaking up if it turns out it's not good. But I would point to article 2 that speaks of another thing, and it says that some things are taken out of context and interpreted by me in the wrong way. Because Article 2 says – Bosnia and Herzegovina will ensure that infrastructure and areas and their use are accessible, including infrastructure and areas for the transport of storage and training, but not limited to them. And then it goes – if necessary for the implementation of the interstate co-operation programme and other activities that the parties can agree on. 35 So this would apply, this contract, previously on concrete activities, will be a deal. Therefore, a very important member who, this contract refers to concrete activities that Bosnia and Herzegovina will lead with the United States of America to agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6436	I thank my colleague Radovanović. I don't see any more registered by this item of the agenda, and now I'm going to put it to a vote means giving consent to ratify this agreement. You can vote. I realize that we adopted, agreed on this ratification, 12 were against one. Moving to the next item on the agenda, 20th, A.26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Hashemid Kingdom of Jordan on air traffic You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. You can vote. I unanimously agree that this agreement has been ratified. Twenty-seventh agenda, Add.27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain for the lending of concession trains "TAUGO" for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6440	If I may, on behalf of the committee in charge, you have received a report. We supported this agreement by adopting a single conclusion with this agreement, which is to start with an initiative under the Council of Ministers that all other issues which are not small with Slovenia are resolved as soon as possible, issues of social health insurance, pension insurance. These are issues that have not been settled with Slovenia and we are going, we have proposed to the Council of Ministers that these issues be resolved as soon as possible and contracts are signed to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6441	Thank you. We don't have any more debaters. Wait a minute, tell me if that conclusion is composite. Yeah, it's an integral part of the report. We don't have any more logs. So we can get to the bottom of this. You're welcome to vote. So we unanimously gave consent. Twenty-nineth agenda, Add.29. Appointment of four members of Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Radio Television Board, setting out the duration of their mandates I am obliged to explain that at the last session, we delayed our statement on the appointment of four members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service and the determination of the duration of their mandates due to the uncertainty over the appointment of candidates from the order of others, Ms. Nada Milošević. We asked the Communications Regulatory Agency to provide additional information on the identity of Nada Milošević, which was delivered to us. On the basis of Article 26. The Law on the Public Radio Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina appoints members of the Management Board from the 37 candidates in the shortlist, which is provided by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency. At the 82nd session, the House of Representatives appointed members of the Governing Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Service, as proposed by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that – Marija Putica of the Croatian people for a term of office of 4 years, Nikola Deretić of the Serb people for a term of office of 3 years, nada Milošević of the rest of the two-year term and Plamenko Čustović of the Bosniak people for a term of 1 year. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6443	I'd like a brief one. I talked about it last time. Indeed, I know this woman, I said Malta not since childhood and I know that she was married and I know that from the birth of Ademović Nadir, that Milošević nadira is married. I just didn't get it right after I knew she was divorced, and I didn't know if it was regulated. I checked it out. The divorce was conducted legally kept this name and last name as it was at the time of marriage. So I don't think there's anything controversial right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6444	We don't have any reports. Yes, Mr. Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6445	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I will say a few words only because last time we discussed this item of the agenda we had an initiative that was rejected by voting. The initiative came down to this last time to remove this point from the agenda for the simple reason that according to this law and on the set of these public broadcaster laws, the Public TV system was therefore very much noticed by representatives of the Croatian people at all stages of the debate, so from establishing a proposal to a statement in the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. At the same time, you know that a member of the Croatian Presidency, Mr Ivo Miro Jović, filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court, requested the adoption of a ban on the application of the Law on the Public TV System, the service, which was rejected. At the same time, he submitted this law to an assessment of constitutionality, whether it was in accordance with the Constitution. At the same time, at the second level, at the level of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation Constitutional Court considered and considered the submission of the Croatian People's Club of the Federal Parliament and assessed that this law, therefore, which in the Federation on the Public TV Service of the Federation, was drawn up on the basis of the Law we are discussing today and which we are today implementing by the appointment of the Governing Board, assessed it as harmful to the vital national interests of the Croatian people in the Federation. That was why we said – gentlemen, if a constitutional court in the entity has already told its lawyer, if the second constitutional court of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Constitutional Court of BiH has not yet decided on a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the same law, do not force us to implement that law in Parliament. So, let's wait for the Constitutional Court's decisions, and we'll see fate. So we have nothing against the proposed candidates. The candidates for us are not contentious, but this thing. 38 So, what I have told you now is that we cannot support today and the proposed composition of the Public Service Management Board, not because of people, but for principle reasons, because in the complete procedure we are dissatisfied with the solution that this law carries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-07-0.u6446	I thank my colleague Filipović. Are there any more debaters? There isn't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. And now we're going to approach the vote. So here we are voting both on the proposed candidates and on their mandate as read only in the introduction and here you can now vote. Here you go. - Nine for, one abstention, two against. I find that the proposed candidates have been appointed members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service in the mandates as said. With this we have exhausted the agenda for today's session, and here I now announce to you the next session to be held on September 20th. You'll be familiar with all the details in good time. Thank you again and all the best. The session was completed at 3:00 and 45.
