ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22785	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 76th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests and I welcome the representatives of the public information funds following the work of this session. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests, representatives of international organisations who are monitoring the work of this house and all those who responded to this session, are invited to welcome me. According to the Service report, I find that 30 MPs attend the session, so 21 from the Federation and 9 from Republika Srpska, which means we have a quorum for full and full-fledged decision-making. The announcement of the delay was announced by Prof. Azra Hadžiahmetović, others have not announced the justification of the absence, so here is Dr. The liar's coming. I've got a signal. So all those who have not justified their absence expect to join this session in its course. Ladies and gentlemen, this time we have had some changes and additions to the proposed agenda, as you have only seen. Namely, a request from counterpart Jeline Đurković was included in the agenda for the draft law amending the Law on concessions to be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We are your proposal for this law, your proposal for this law is timely and this is a mandatory item of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. From the agenda, we re-delivered the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the identical text of the Personal Data Protection Act. The joint commission held a session yesterday, however, did not finish the job at the co-ordination. And in the end, the order was changed. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system with the Commission report has been moved ahead of these VAT laws, so it is now on the 10th, now the 10th point of the agenda. You received at the beginning of the session a new draft agenda that was agreed at the session of the College in an extended composition. Two ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you a heads-up on this agenda and a few preliminary notes. We are on an extended college today, because of the importance of the points on the agenda, we have reached full agreement that today we are not going with the requirements for the expansion of the agenda, but that we are working effectively and we also agreed to conduct a tolerance debate in order to successfully ear the session to bring it to an end. So I ask you to honor the Expansive College's agreement that there are no requirements except for the direct need to expand the agenda. Of course, I have no intention or right to take anyone's right to such a possibility, but this is a joint agreement between all representatives in the Expansive College. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm realizing that we've adopted the next agenda. Record of the 75th House of Representatives session, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. MP Jeline Đurković's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on concessions of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on a draft law supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, (Law in First Reading), 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer of the Law, Mr Momčilo Novaković), 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vinko Zorić, 8. Proposal for a law on the verification and settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign savings account, with the Commission's Financial and Budget Report, 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (proposer: MEP Mirsad Ćeman), 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget, Proposer Muhamed Moranjkić, 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – delivered in 30.12.2005), 12. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – delivered on 26 January 2006), 13. Proposal for a Law amending the law on value added tax, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (proposer of Parliament Muhamed Moranjkić), 3 14. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 15. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 16. Appointment of members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service and determination of the duration of their term of office, 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit – Project on Solid Waste Management between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development, (b) Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on Development Loan - Project technical assistance in the area of social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. So we're going to work on our adopted agenda. The first point is Ad.1. A record from the 75th session of the House of Representatives has been delivered to you by fax on 21st of the month. Does he have any objections to the law? I'm opening a debate. On the record. I'm opening a debate. No objections. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen prepare, I ask all MPs to insert their cards so they can vote. So who isn't, put in the card. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the record. Vote now. So I find that with 32 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions, so unanimously adopted the minutes of the 77th session of the House of Representatives and thus gained the conditions to move on to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad2. MPs' questions and answers The answers to this session were received by MPs from ruža Sopta on the question asked at the 71st session, Mirsad Ćeman asked the question at 72. Sessions, Jozo Križanović and Muhamed Moranjkić, Vinko Zorić, Izet Hadžić, asked questions at the 73rd session. Miloš Jovanović received a notice from the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue he asked the court at the 74th session. Here, those are the answers you got. Any comments on the answers received? Who's answering for a word? Mr. Krićanović, please. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22786	I thank Mr. Chairman, first of all, I want to point out my gratitude for getting the answer at all, is that rare, and secondly to say that I am not satisfied. I remind you that my question was about when the Council of Ministers would pass the Restitution Law proposal. I would like to remind you that, two years ago, we made a commitment to the Council of Ministers to deliver the Restitution Bill within three months and to provide information as to how much nationalised property has been returned on which basis and which structure and which institutions and individuals have done so. I can see from this answer that it is consciously working to avoid this, this question, at least in this term. In fact, two years later, we have a situation to tell us that the Council of Ministers has formed a state committee for restitution, that the Commission has so far created some database and found that there are some 55 billion values of the seized property, and that only now a tender for the preparation of a feasibility study in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been opened and is said immediately after that, although there is still a tender under way that the Law will be passed, that is to say, by 30.6. this year. I think it's very irresponsible. Asking how much property has been returned so far, the Council of Ministers says it has no record. Well, I guess it was easier to collect that data than to collect this 55 billion-dollar-absorbed property. So it's a conscious process not to affect that quiet restitution is taking place, and at the same time there is no serious intention to pass the Restitution Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22787	I thank my colleague Križanović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Mirsad Sipović and Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22788	Dear Mr. President, co-chairing, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will honor the chairmanship of your suggestion and I will be very specific, in short, please bear the fruit of my question at earlier sessions regarding the Sport Act. I have information that he's been referred to a public debate with sports organizations and it's to welcome by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. But, Mr. Chairman, I will again specifically insist as an MP on what is the BiH Law on Lawyerry. I have information that the text proposal has been drawn up and that it is addressed to the OHR for reading, even personally I have been in contact with Mr Kovač's Registrar of Justice, and I have received information that I will receive an answer to the parliamentary question. This is the fourth session that I don't get it and ask again the question of lawyers in Bosnia and Herzegovina are asking a question in the framework of judicial reform that there should be one state-of-the-art state law, thus remaining legal organisations on entity and entity-based laws and within the framework of our EU-led reforms. I think it is high time, if I don't get that law, that is, in the parliamentary procedure I will be, using my constitutional right to make a complete proposal with five suggestions from the legal chambers of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation and the Republika Srpska and our regional chambers to propose in the parliamentary procedure. I pray once again to the Registrar to get an answer to the question at which stage this law remains without questions, I respect your suggestions to be expedient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22789	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my parliamentary question and, of course, I will ask for it in writing from the Council of Ministers for reply - Do the provisions of the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular Article 48(4), shall be respected. A law according to which employees are entitled to supplement on the basis of overtime and night work, work on Sundays and holidays and some other day of the law? Given that under this law the Council of Ministers was obliged to bring the amount of that compensation. I ask for the answer whether he respected the legal provision of this Article, paragraph 5, which binds the Council of Ministers, because according to the information I have had five years of security workers and other staff in the institutions have not received, or have not exercised this legal right. Saću'm going to systematicize this, and Mr. Chairman, I'm going to give the service in writing, so I would like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22791	Thank you. My colleague Mubera Ušanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22792	The 51st session of the House of Representatives held on 3 February 2005 discussed the Commission's report on gender equality of visits to Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which prison sentences are held by women. I suggested extending the second conclusion of the report that this home had accepted. The bottom line is that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Justice Ministry, in co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Bosnian Podlin canton Gorazda, is to find a solution to the completion of the start of the KPZ facility Foča Ustikolin, given the apparent lack of an institution of that kind. Since this conclusion is not in the draft conclusions that we discussed at the last session, I am referring to the issue of the Ministry of Justice - What has been done to address the problem of building the KPZ Foča Ustikolin and, at the conclusion of the 81st session of the Council of Ministers held on 12 April 2005?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22793	I thank my colleague Ušanović. A colleague, Momčilo Novaković, and Vinko Zorića. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22794	The chairman, fellow MPs, I refer the issue to the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina and ask for an answer in writing. Namely, Article 87. The law is defined as a way of exercising copyright. On the basis of Article 80(3) of this Act, the Institute of Intellectual Property has granted to Sinekvanon from Sarajevo the right or permission to exercise copyright to the public, to exercise the copyright of public performance or broadcasting of musical and literary works, and does not take into account that Article 4 says that the Institute will grant the authorisation provided for in Article 1 of that organisation which fulfils the professional criteria for the exercise of copyright, that is to say, any organisation that fulfils these conditions. Based on this right, Synekvanon asked all the electronic media for 3% of the annual total income to have the right to broadcast music on television and radio receivers. I don't want to draw a number because I'm not able to because I don't know what the total income is, but we can assume what kind of figures it's about. This is some of the media that are on the financing of citizens such as the Public Service and some local media that finance local communities have led to a rather enviable position, and at the end of the day these 3% are the 3% that we pay here, this one we pay by paying for TV subscriptions. I sent a letter to the Institute of Intellectual Property on March 17th asking them to give me an insight into the documents they gave the right to represent copyright in the company and I did not get an answer until today. My question is I. How many intellectual property institutes did he give these permits? 2. How many subjects have come forward that meet the criteria, which are the subjects, and why have they not been authorised? 3. Who determined the amount of compensation for the use of copyright based on which and whose permits and calculations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22795	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22796	Like this, I've already been twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22797	These are questions, and there's no replica. Wait a minute. There's no replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22798	This question has already been asked. Mr. Novaković asked the question I asked a year ago. This question has already been asked and answered by the Institute in our services so that this question can be asked in another way, or re-designed. So the answer to that question we got. A single sinekvanenon association has also been given a system and a monopoly system to work and live in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No more 7 associations have since received any further permits. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Copyright Act so that something here can be done at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22799	I thank my colleague Živković, but I think the MP can ask for the right, has the right to ask for an answer to the parliamentary question and in the future there is no controversy with parliamentary issues. He can do it again if he wants more times. Here you go, Comrade Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22800	I've already asked a similar question twice, and I'll comment on the answer. So, I once asked the Council of Ministers if the assistance of people who suffered an earthquake in one place in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sovici, then I received no answer, and then I said that I read on the Federal TV teletex that the Council of Ministers made a decision to single out 100 thousand from the current budget reserves of BiH institutions to help the victims in the earthquake in Pakistan and I said that I agree with it. But he asked only, and they replied to Sović whether no one proposed anything for the Sovice and that they did not do so because it happened in 2004 etc. So at one of the previous sessions, I asked at the 73rd session, who should suggest it? So, as a representative, I don't need to know who should propose to help one place in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has suffered an earthquake. If it's someone from the county service, then I need to be told that I'm meeting my constituents tomorrow. You and these people are guilty because you didn't get any help from the federal, or here's the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm here to say that if it's helping Pakistan that the recommendation was Ananan Annan, then the Government of the Republic of Pakistan, then the Ambassador of the Republic of Pakistan, etc. I didn't care about that. I am interested in who should propose to help the settlement, or once in a whole region, or the municipality that suffered an earthquake in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like the Council of Ministers to answer that, if it is an ambassador, then tell me the ambassador whom countries should inform the Council of Ministers to help one place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22801	I thank my colleague Zorić. A colleague, Novaković, asked for his word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22802	At the beginning of my question, I said that I would refer the question to the Institute of Intellectual Property, not Mr. Živković, and I would ask that we be correct when it comes to questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22803	I figured that out, and that's why I warned him. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22804	You really don't need these kind of comments. So I referred the question to the Institute of Intellectual Property.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22805	Thank you. That's how he'll be forwarded. That's why I said these are parliamentary questions and answers, not interlocutor questions. Otherwise it would be called that. Who's next to the word? A colleague of Živković's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22806	Oh, this is well-intentioned, Mr. Novaković. It's just that there's been an answer for a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22807	I'm asking you a question. Don't get all flimsy, nothing else. I don't want to argue about it at all. I just wanted to let you know that a year ago that question was asked. My question, since yesterday was Water Protection Day World Day, and since I didn't get the answer I asked at the 74th session about the polluting of the River Precess and the sea of fish, and I expected this to be the answer for this day, I'm going to give the Council of Ministers a chance to do so at the next session, in fact that we won't be able to figure out how I did and suggest that an investigative committee be formed in terms of what I did. Thank you. So I repeat the question. Thank you. Dr. Petar Kunić. Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22809	Thank you. I think the chairman could already guess what I'm going to potential again. So this is the third time, the fourth time, I didn't get an answer today. Is this foreseen within a point, therefore - will the College create assumptions that Parliament's sessions are being transferred? That is the unanimous conclusion of this House. Denialing that fact is not possible, or I'd like to ask it to be put to the vote again so I know where I'm at. So should I continue to ask these questions, to be persistent, I learned to be persistent in things, and it even seems to me that it's rude of me to keep pulling that question away. I think the College should say finally – we are not able because of certain circumstances, because TV Public Service is an enclave that is not affected by us and absolutely, independent, we have highly conscious people who work there. I am too pleased with the work of this service, as I am overly satisfied with the work of the service in RS. 9 Therefore, I would ask that answer. So I wouldn't want to ask those questions anymore, because I'm embarrassed already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22810	Thank you. I'll take the opportunity, of course, I thought last time we gave the College an answer to that question, but here's another time, you're not gonna be around for what I'm doing from the scene, because there's no deputy first. So we're on to that conclusion. The College did not disobey the conclusion of a conversation with representatives of the Public TV Service. At that first meeting, we first concluded that we as Parliament are only recently and I do not know whether the procedure on the Law is fully completed for this public service. First, it was until the state parliament, the second thing we realized was that there were no technological conditions on either side, not even on the part of this Parliament, and not even on the public TV system that they directly put in, at the moment they transfer those sessions. But we agreed that they were looking for a modus to pay more attention, whether through special shows, reports, etc. So there's a mood on the one hand and on the other to solve the problem. We haven't forgotten that conclusion. We have to sit down very quickly and see what part of these necessary technological assumptions we need to create in order for these sessions to be publicly transmitted. That's all I can inform you on behalf of the College, because we really invited people, we talked, we had one correct conversation, and that's the representatives of the RTTV system and Radio BHTV1 who also has a desire to monitor and transmit the work of this session. I regret that I also supported that conclusion and it is my interest and interest for all of us to have a public transmission, but we need to remove technical, or technological disadvantages here in the O.R., as well as those within our system in order to be able to follow publicly. What we could have allowed is that you see how arranged this hall, the presence of this house inside this hall, is to monitor more intensively the work of this Parliament and make special shows dedicated. It's not a direct transmission, but it's a shift relative to what we've had so far. I can say so much of course on this one, on this question. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I am concluding a debate on parliamentary matters and answers. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. On 6 March of the current year, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers sent Parliament a draft law amending the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration with a request with a procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You've received the bill and according to that I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 10 Ladies and gentlemen prepare to plead. Vote now. - So I find that with 26 votes for, 1 against, no one abstention, 18 from the Federation, 8 from the RS, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. MP Jeline Đurković's request to discuss the draft law amending the Law on concessions of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedurekolegica Jelina Đurković, submitted a proposal for this law on 10 March 2006 with an emergency procedure request. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate on this material. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Jelina Đurković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22811	I've also written an explanation and I don't think there's really anything to add, and it's just that the decision-making process of the concession committee allows a simple majority, since it's there, I don't know why, but it's simply not to ask myself, it's said that I can also have three members decide of seven. It is, however, when it comes to decision-making on concessions something that is not even a simple majority and then I am this point, item 3 of point 12 simply adjusted so that we can have a majority in the decision-making process. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22812	I thank my colleague Đurković. Mr. Beriz Beriz answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22813	...because I understand what Mrs. Jelina is talking about, but I'd like to get an official report. It's not possible for three men of seven to decide. So let me get this straight, let's check it out. Get someone from the Council of Ministers. I think we really know what this is about. Niko one mind we fix it, etc., but I can't believe the commission like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22814	Here, I'll read it. It says so - application requests etc. They shall be considered and decided by at least four members of the Commission, of which one representative with residence established in Article 7 shall be the same. If a member is unable to perform his duties or die during the resolution process, three remaining members may unanimously make a decision. Out of seven, he's got three. If someone dies, or if they're sick. And here we have five decisions. So if someone's not able to decide four, it's four again, it's most of them again. That's the point. So, not three, because that's less than half of the simple majority, and that's to me, it makes sense to me. That's why we've only raised 11 of these five so that if someone gets sick, some simple majority can decide again. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22815	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22816	Well, I also think the legal norm is very clumsy. I haven't read these standards when it comes to decision-making. I don't know, we probably missed it out there in lawless or clumsy legal norm. However, I would agree with Mr. Belkić. So let's see what this is all about, we need to change this in some other way. What if we were to do it deliberately in other laws like this? One member dies, so he decides this and that. So this is not the usual way of deciding in the bodies regarding the objection or the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22817	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 11, v. 18, abstention 2. I konstatovati that this proposal is not accepted by article 105 and goes in. Please ask for repetition. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 12, versus 19, no one's cocky. I therefore find that the procedure of Article 105 has not been accepted and that Dr. Jeline Đurković is going into a regular parliamentary procedure. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on a draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, MP Momčilo Novaković, (Law in first reading) received a report from the Kolegijum as a commission. You saw we didn't achieve consent. I call on you to vote on the bill's proposal and the additions to the law on the violation of criminal sanctions in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. You're asking for a repeat vote. I'd like to beg the MPs, see, there's no problem with us repeating as many times as you want. Follow me a little bit. Wait a minute. 12 So it is very difficult, asking for a repeat vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please prepare the charts. What can I do now? So please. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Give me the report. - For 16, versus 12, abstention six. So he's got most of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22818	Who's against ethnicity?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22819	Who's against the Federation? - 13 of the Federation. Who's from the RS against? – 2 So I realize that the Law passed in the first reading. Who's in favour of that, I'm asking the question of moving on to the Law in a second reading. Who do we vote for? Let's vote in the second reading. Conclusion, so who's in favour of voting for another reading? Please, it's a bad thing to do now. We'll try to set it up. - Who's against it? - Abstained? - Three abstentions. You can just hurry up a little bit. - For 15, against 16, 3 abstentions. So we didn't get the consent to work in the second reading. So that's the fifth point, and we get the conditions to move to the sixth point of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer of the Law, Mr Momčilo Novaković) you received a report from the College as a commission. You've seen there's no consent here either. I urge you to vote on the Constitutional-Serb Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH in a second reading. So here is the vote on the Commission's report in the second reading. We'll try the technique again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Wait a minute, is there anyone who doesn't understand the procedure? So this is what we've been repeating five or six times. 13 So we vote on the Commission's report in the second round. If the Report of the Commission is accepted, the Law has fallen, unless the Law has been passed. So get ready to vote. Vote now. On the Commission's report. We vote electronically. Please. Watch out. Prepare to vote, we vote electronically. Who's in? Who's against it? Doesn't the technique work? Please, we vote nicely with the chart again. So we vote on the Commission's report in the second round. You're welcome to vote. Who's in? Who's against? On the Commission's report, yes. It'll be settled now. A kolegica of Milićević will move in with his colleaguesŽilić so that she will be able to electronically, because her device is not working. Give us a report. - For 25, against 10. So now we're going to the entity vote. Who's against the Federation? - No Niko. Who's from Republika Srpska against? - So 10 from RS v. I figure he's going back to college. So the circle of business closes like that, unfortunately forever, and we end the sixth point. So there's a new report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22820	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22821	Here's how it's going to work because a colleague named Milićević has moved on to her place of business with a colleague named Mehmed Žilić, so her device just didn't work. We're crossing ladies and gentlemen to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposers: MPs Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vinko Zorić You are familiar with the procedure regarding this legislative proposal. I remind you that the college's competent committee has requested an extension of the deadline, which the Kolegijum has granted. We received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 16 March. You've also received a report. You have seen that the Commission has adopted 24 amendments and in the plenary phase we have received quite a number of amendments that you have also received. So in the plenary phase, the amendments were submitted and wanted to be defended by Mirsad Ćeman 9 amendments, Jozo Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Selim Bešlagić 5, Muhamed Moranjkić 5, Commission for Gender Equality 3, Tihomir Gligorić 2 and Miloš Jovanović 1 amendments. 14 Mirsad Ćeman submitted another 3 amendments by calling for Article 94, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. These are amendments which carry the date 21.3. are marked as amendments XI, XII and XIII. Amendment X contests Amendment XIV of the Competent Commission. Amendment XI is submitted on the basis of new aspects under Article 94(3)(a) and (b) and Amendment XII, as well as new aspects, an anamendment XIII which contests Amendment XVI of the competent commission. Here's the thing about amendments submitted during the plenary phase. The service made up a single proposal for these amendments and you received the review. I would like to stress that we will vote on the amendment in the order you received in that review. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law in the first reading in order to listen to colleagues present at the Enlarged College to try to stick to the agreement that we have reached there. I assume the club presidents informed their party colleagues about the deal. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22822	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I don't mean to talk about the law since, no matter what I'm with two other fellow promoters. I would just like to point out that we are, in fact, formal promoters, and that the essential proposer is a working group that is formed means, among other things, with the members of this Parliament. That's one thing. And another old man that we were before the session, that is, that I before the session in conversation with the members of the Election Commission found out that even in the amendments tabled by Mr Čeman who disputed that part of the timing means in those 150 days there could be some more changes. Namely, this time to register practically the parties to the elections that are being reduced means to 10 days that it can actually be 15 days. Now that's something that we practically don't have here in the amendments, so one of these amendments that Mr. Ćeman has proposed, and that contests the amendments that have been adopted, should be changed, or should be given up by Mr. Ćeman. For this reason, I think it would be good to agree this by taking 15 minutes off, then, together with the people of the Election Commission and with Mr. Ćeman, as a pronoun, agreeing on what is now acceptable to the Election Commission, because it is now about professional affairs where people should say, simply in that time, whether or not I can do it and that, after these 15 minutes, we are also discussing the first reading and, of course, if the conditions are obtained, that is, if we agree with that in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22823	I thank my colleague Novaković. I find this proposal quite acceptable. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. We would like to ask the Working Group and the Election Commission, first of all, to welcome the members of the Election Commission and thank you for monitoring the work of this session and helping. 15 I ask the MPs to take their seats and start working. [[PAUZA]] We have a quorum. We gave a break at the request of Club SDS, i.e. Momčilo Novaković as a member of the working group, i.e. on behalf of the promoter. Is there a need for a colleague, Novaković, to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22824	I thank the chairman. I think on this break we solved those dilemmas that we had before the break started. In fact, together with the Election Commission, we've cleared up a few issues, well, among other things, those issues, which concern the terms within the 150 days. In fact, if we take into account the amendments, Mr. Ćeman's additional amendments, then we have agreed to Amendment X, given the member of the Rules of Procedure, which allows when there are several proposals, it means finding a middle solution, that is, in fact, Article 94. The Rules of Procedure, so that the text would practically mean, reads. Instead of 140 days, it is replaced by 135 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22825	What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22826	It's Amendment X, I'm talking about an additional one, so the amendments according to, so it would go 135 days, where 130 would now be 135.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22827	The amendment is now being modified.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22828	I'm talking now, we're fixing the amendment. So Amendments XI and XII of Mr. Ćeman are acceptable, with me going back to Amendment X in Article 38(1) also instead of 130 going 135 days. Look, it's very difficult, you have to take the basic text of the law to make it happen. It is the same principle for independent candidates, which applies to these candidate lists of parties. So you're bringing her into the same position. It might be a good idea to simply formulate this amendment, if you consider it necessary for Čeman to now formulate it and deliver in writing what it looks like. If we appreciate it, it's not enough. I think that when you take the basic text and based on what I said, you can see what we want. So Amendment XI and XII is acceptable. So that's what we talked to the Electoral Commission, and that's fine, with the fact that, from Amendment XIII, Article 46, paragraph 1, it would remain the text for 90 days. So, Mr. Ćeman would give up this amendment, so it would be a deadline for the application of the candidate lists of political parties, which, if we adopt the Ćeman amendment, would be 10 days, and if the amendment adopted on Mr. Jovanović's commission remains 15 days. 16 The assessment is that, given that we will have an increase in the number of people in parliaments and lists, it still takes 15 days for the parties to form and deliver candidate lists. It's about these additional amendments. We also agreed, I say what we agreed there, and MPs will vote in the way they think, that Amendment VII of Mr Ćeman, which says that the words "in absentia", where we said that the words in absentia would be deleted to the text of the law. If we take a list of these amendments now, on page 3, of Amendment VII of Mr. Ćeman, it is acceptable to Article 56, given that it is done, if we remain, we would have an unconsistent text of the law. There would be a vote in absentia, and no one would count the votes. So, they wouldn't count on the central polling list, at the polling station, so they'd just have inconsistency and it's acceptable. On the other hand, Mr. Ćeman has given up the other amendments, except for Amendment V, Mr. Ćeman, who would rephrase, in fact VI of Mr. Ćeman who would rephrase and I ask him to read that formulation. It is, in effect, a vote in the polling post, where the voter does not find his name in a copy of the polling post. The text that is now in the law would be, on occasion, such as that that it could be interpreted as only one place in the entire municipality, where all such voters would go without them on the voter's list. The goal is for everyone to actually vote where he comes and where he has a place of residence, whether or not he was, and to make a special list, and that's why we agreed to this amendment in the way that Ćeman will read. In this way, we have actually negotiated a set of amendments to Mr. Ćeman, and I think that this way we would allow the process to accelerate when it comes to amendments. I, only as a legislator, can ask other colleagues that, if some of their amendments are not such capacity, means that we do not open up much of the debate, but simply, someone else gives up their amendments, if, of course, it estimates it for the necessary. Mr. Ćeman's amendment, here, you see, the text of the law provides for 140 words to be replaced by 130, by 130. Mr. Ćeman suggested you delete it. It is agreed that the words of 140 days are replaced by 135, not 130. That's what's acceptable to the Election Commission, in terms of time. It's about political parties and their applications. It's just that instead of now 130, we actually have a middle, 135. And a second view, which refers to independent candidates, also has 135 days before the election to apply, which is to bring into a flat or the same situation as the political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22829	I thank my colleague Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try a little bit. I've been trying to figure out what this is all about. I am grateful to both the Election Commission and the Working Group and everyone who has managed to find a compromise solution. In fact, to find a solution, in fact, to find a solution that can bring the election process to an end without a problem, and I think that we should adopt what the agreement has been reached about, to vote from amendments to amendments, to amends, and then after that, Col. Ćeman gives up the other amendments and invite other colleagues who want to give up the amendments, which 17 do not want us to vote on amendments and that procedure to end in such a way. First reading, that's what we're going to vote on. These amendments touch in principle. Comrade Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22830	I, as a legislator, am building on everything that's agreed on, because I don't know that it's a business okay. If there are amendments he's giving up on, then the Proposer gets up and says I'm giving up on the amendment, and if there are new amendments, then they're writing, but I think it's too late. I can't say anything else here. I don't like the situation beyond pressure. It bothers me. If there is a competent body of business to resolve this for us or to be interpreted by the Rules of Procedure of the College, whether this is business that we are doing or not right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22831	I will try to talk to my colleague Zorić, since it points to new moments here, so 135 days, or 140, or 130 and 135, are not the same. So these are new moments. It's a communication thing, etc. So it's not illogical and it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure to offer a new amendment, which is not, therefore, foreseen a deadline, if I can immediately, in two days, I can understand. If new moments are pointed out and agreed, then it's quite okay so it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure in that sense and, if I think it would be good if we got what was agreed on in writing and so I ask the service to prepare and that it would be good if they followed the work there and on the spot followed and wrote, it in the future to practice. It doesn't mean anything if the deal is reached, if we don't have it on the benches in the same text. kolega Jahić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22832	I'd just like to explain the point of this set of amendments. In fact, you know that in the original text of the electoral law, whether elections are declared 170 days before the election. The amendments, adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Mr Miloš Jovanović, were dropped for 150 days. However, those internal deadlines, therefore, also adopted a few amendments by Mr Miloš Jovanović with those internal deadlines, which apply, how many days it takes to register political parties, or coalitions, and how many days it takes for political parties to list candidates, etc. These deadlines, normally, unfortunately, none of the representatives of the Electoral Commission, due to some, obviously, technical moments, were present on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to clarify these details and, based on the proposal of members of the Election Commission, on the basis of us there and the promoter, therefore, since Mr Ćeman has already proposed this amendment, we have only modified, instead of 130, it takes 135 days. So that's just the point. It's not a radical procedure. That's it. ed
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22833	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22834	So I'm asking you, we should be correct here. In fact, my colleague Zorić is also a legislator of this law, and I think that we should be correct about all three promoters in the same way. I think the proposal Mr. Zorić made was correct. So, yes, still, 18 of us in writing might be the three of us as legislators of the law with the amendment promoter. This is where the debate can be conducted. Let's make a written text of this, so that later there won't be a dilemma of what's been done and what's not done. In fact, it would be correct if all three proposings would accept this, if we were already working on this law, I don't see that this way we couldn't properly complete the whole process. So, counterpart Zorić is the legislator and, if he asks to get written, then it's perfectly normal that we should do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22835	I thank my colleague Novaković. Can we try to find a solution? So there's time it's not a problem. Now we've got, fortunately, harmonised things to describe. We have part of the mood for some to give up the amendment and some not. Can we give you a new time? It doesn't even have to be half what. We will have a new session very soon, so that by then we can get a cleanup, that people give up the amendment that wants this compromise to be made and that we delay the plea, given the new moments that have arisen. I'm saying there's time, it's not a problem, since there's going to be another amendment to the election law. We can do this, come on please, so we're debated in the first reading over. Niko one disputes the principles. We can vote. So we haven't yet. I ask the three of you to go, and yes, here we have a debate in the first reading. Mr. Belkić, how can we spare you?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22836	Nice, take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22837	So we're looking for a solution. We're going to have a debate, some people, what they agreed with the Electoral Commission, described to get to the desks. Comrade Belkić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22838	Just a few sentences. I want to explain why I'm expressing dissatisfaction. It really doesn't make sense. The MPs got the material, they got everything, we talked to the College, etc., but you at the Parliament meeting are arguing we could have been like this, these warn you, the deadline is this, it really doesn't make sense and don't do it to us anymore. Take a break, come back for the Rules of Procedure what we can do, we'll do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22839	I thank my colleague, Belkić. That's what I thought. Let the promoters go together and work on this. We conduct the debate in the first reading. Then let's finish the law in first reading and then take a break, okay? Who's answering for a first-reading debate? Who's calling? Here's a colleague of Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22840	I'd like to say that the task force, to say, has done quite a lot on election amendments and additions, but it seems to me that, I think we should stay Mr. Chairman of the task force. We said when we finished our first reading, we could take a break of 19 so let them work and I think that when the first reading is to have members of the Izorna Commission present, someone give an answer, and if they're not, we should all go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22841	Please, the debate is about the law in the first reading. I'm begging you, there's an open debate. We've got quorum, you're having a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22842	What I'm saying is, since the amendments and the additions to the IPR have not been addressed, in my opinion, to two fundamental problems, which in the current election cycles, I think have led to the irregularity of the election. I mean, here by one, a vote in absentia. I don't think there's any need to vote in absentia to vote in absentia, given that all those who wanted to return had the opportunity to return. And, secondly, I think that voting in absentia is very often used to adjust election results. The second thing, I think, too, is that voting in absentia is very expensive. Here, I'll specifically say about my community, at least that's how it's been so far. For the municipality of Zvornik there were over 10,000 people who have the right to vote in absentia and I don't think there are any municipalities in the Federation where there is no one who has the right to vote for the municipality of Zvornik. Does it mean now that, specifically, if you want control, you have to send an observer or someone to control the vote to every municipality in the Federation? So, since it's not there, it's just impossible. There are enormous costs for you to send now, to say to every place someone who will control the vote in absentia, then, of course, that this could violate the regularity of the vote, or people can, in fact, vote without voting. So I think the vote is in absentia that should be lifted and there's no need. I'd like to, maybe not enough, I'd like someone from the Electoral Commission to tell me if those people are going back to the place of their former residence, whether they're going to be on that regular polling list, or whether they're going to be back on the voting list in absentia. I think it's, to say, that it's a very important thing, then in some way, I have to admit, it tempers, so those people who came back if they're going to vote in the community of residence, then they're probably going to be a very small number of people who vote in absentia. The other thing I'm saying is, giving the voter an opportunity to, I would ask, give the voter the opportunity to vote for one or more candidates on the candidate list. I can accept, I can't say that would be the best, but you, too, that kind of vote, also serve to manipulate, or favor some candidates from the list. I am going back to the experience so far, meaning that members of the election committees, very often read those, if they agree normally among themselves, read those who are not even rounded. So you make a different redistribution compared to the list that's been proposed. I understand it's an open list, but I think we need to find a way to prevent it. And, third thing. I don't know why, if someone from the Electoral Commission would answer me. Whose obligation it is to distribute and highlight voter lists in polling stations, I will give up on 20 amendments, but to tell me which member, in which member of the Electoral Law, writes it. So, whose obligation is to highlight and distribute voter lists in polling stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22843	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22844	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me say a few words when it comes to the principles of this law, which is the principle of gender equality. I can say that the basic principle has been violated, because the proposal for a text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law in BiH is against the constitution, because it is contrary to Article 2(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The BiH Constitution, which sets out a provision prohibiting gender discrimination, with regard to the recognition, enjoyment and protection of human rights provided for in this article. Also, this bill is against the law because it is contrary to the provisions of the Gender Equality Act and constitutes support for direct and indirect discrimination based on gender. I want to remind you that, direct gender discrimination, according to the Gender Equality Act, when a person has been treated, is treated or can be treated more unfavorably than the other person in the same or similar situation, in this case I am talking about an election process or... gender discrimination exists when the apparent neutral legal norm, criterion or practice, equally for all lead to an unfavourable position of one half with the persons of the other sex. I also remind you of Article 21 which speaks of the obligations of the authorities, that the competent authorities at all levels take all appropriate measures to implement the provisions laid down by the Gender Equality Act, including, but not limited to the adoption of new or amending existing laws, in order to comply with the provisions of this law. I also remind you that the proposal for this law is contrary to the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, the Beijing Declaration, the Action Platform and, in the end, the proposal for this law is contrary to the Millennium Goals of the UN, which UN member states are obliged to implement measures to increase women's representation at all levels of decision-making. Dear colleagues and colleagues, women in BiH have decided this time to fight gender discrimination and for greater participation in the country's political life. True, we have never had so much support for citizens, NGOs, women from political parties and women outside of them. Women's representation in political parties is best talked about party democracy. They say that only the soul of parliamentary democracy rests on the representation of all its citizens, therefore, both women and men. Therefore, dear colleagues, I address the male part of Parliament, today we ask you not to be selfish and small-minded, because by supporting such amendments, proposed by the Commission, you will vote for a non-democratic and discriminatory society, in which there is no room for more than half of its population. 21 Dear colleagues, I am now speaking to you, perhaps today is our last chance to do something for women who are yet to come. Today we have to work on... a task, and it doesn't matter what policy options we come from anymore. Voting against these proposals, submitted by the Commission, we are voting for what is yet to come, which means that we belong to half... the country's beach and half the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22845	Thank you. So it was both of them. So, who's feeling how he's going to behave. Replicu was sought by counterpart Novaković, so Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22846	Dear colleagues, and colleagues, excuse me, in order to avoid discrimination, I apologize, I must replicate to my dear colleague, Majkić, that this is about any discrimination. In fact, nowhere in the law, but nowhere else, it's not defined that there can be no more one or the other half on the list. So it's nowhere, especially it's not, but it's nowhere to be mentioned as much as half. What has the provision of the law has one restrictive formulation, which is that the less represented half must, therefore, not be said to be any more, but the less represented must be one candidate among the first five, three among the first eight etc., so each third. We're talking about a less represented sex, which doesn't limit or take away the opportunity to be more, but it can't be less. So it's a matter of political parties when they form candidate lists when they decide which half will put more, but I can't take less of what's said in the law. So here is really no declaration when it comes to, or convention when it comes to these issues, and I have to say that we had very different thoughts, than that there should be less represented one in five, two in ten, etc. We have been guided by the practice of European countries, where there are far fewer women than we do, if we talk about women. So, no, it's not about breaking any conventions. What the law requires is a minimum, it's just an improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22847	Momo, you lost to women. Is it a replica? Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22848	What kind of democracy we're talking about today is clear. That is why we have seen the percentage of women who entered Parliament at the first moment. I also know that it is very difficult for my male colleagues to accept you and admit that it is an interesting job to do politics, well paid, and that you would like to keep that convenience to yourself, but I am telling you, no matter what you show all of your indemnity, deciding whether we will or will not be in this number, we are an unconstitutional process, one day, perhaps not this composition, not this parliament, but someone will have to make such a decision. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22849	I support women. So the process is unstoppable. The Jelina answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22850	I'd tell my colleague Novaković, if that were the case, how did you say wonderfully that there was no mention of discrimination anywhere, so let's say the same formulation up to 50%, would you agree? So it's not about whether it's 30 or 50, it's just about gender equality. We have passed the law of this same parliament, it passed the law, which, right now, insists on equality, or non-discrimination. We've had that fine clause up to 30% of the other half so far, but it never happened. So if we say it the way it's on the list, then it just remains an option. Let me comfort you, in these elections not every debt will be chosen, don't worry, but it's good when we have our own law that we respect this law and respect ourselves, because that law has been passed. So, let's leave it as an option as proposed by the Gender Equality Commission, and then we'll leave it to the voters that, based on quality, we have to offer and it would be good to offer a number of both male and female candidates, and let our electoral body then commit itself. This is not an attack on men and no improvement for women. I don't think we're going to get all 50%, to understand each other, but it's good that we respect our law. That is why I will vote in favour of these amendments proposed by the Gender Equality Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22851	Thank you. I'm here to discuss principles. I guess I'm all here for love between men and women and equality, when I talk about love, I mean equality. So, colleague Sipović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22852	Dear colleagues, I especially speak to you, I have heard a harsh rhetoric from my distinguished colleague Majkić and other colleagues, related to gender equality. I am a member of the Commission on Gender Equality and, as a member, I always support our colleagues to achieve their both human rights and legal rights, to be, in particular, I believe that women in many things our colleagues have shown that they have more and more tolerances in all aspects that they can contribute to political life. I'd just like to say something. I'd just turn around. I'm a little distracted by rhetoric. Take it or leave it. Support discrimination on any discrimination. You know what? I was a member of the Commission back then, so I said. The problem is that colleagues are also elected to amend the law on political parties and within political parties, that the political parties they propose on the list, you understand. Look, we can't legally do what the MPs said, then we'd be in a situation where men are discriminatory. Please, excessive demands, I absolutely agree and this is a major shift and show the standards of civilized countries of Parliament's accession and I cheer that indeed more colleagues in the future. But you know what, when something doesn't measure, it goes to another extreme. We can't legally define something that's a state of play. I also told my colleagues that the problem in some other place to be in the executive bodies of political parties is more represented, so that they are more suggested on the lists and that quality personnel... and the proposal itself for more candidates on the lists is not 23 guarantees whether our colleagues will pass through in this. I wanted to because I respect my colleagues, so if that rhetoric goes sharply, I can also say why I can't accept something that comes out of the box of some more positive discriminatory relationships now. That's when I was talking, please, if you'd listen to me. Let's do this. If positive discrimination is advocated for women to be, our colleagues and women respected 50% to be determined by the legislator to do so. I'll ask you now. Is that appropriate to our sociological mile because, however, women are mothers, because, yet, men have some occupations that women can't objectively do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22853	I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22854	I'm credible and I want to explain my position on what it means. Please, can women be interested in being miners? I can't. Hold on a second, please. I won't go any further. I think I'm more honest with women than I am with those who are courting, and I'll always stand by our colleagues, but in real terms, and I think we should be credible as MPs in that. I will surely respect and support my colleagues, but for some aspects of hair, I must give my position. And, third, I don't want to talk about that comment. I think my democratic question might be more about gender equality than a lot of people who stick around here with their colleagues, and that's how I'm gonna be persistent. For his colleague, Novaković, as he said, so in a certain context, Mr Novaković, I, as an objectively responsible MP, must support it. If it wasn't for the commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission wanted something bad to do against their colleagues. Don't do that. I, even as a member of the Commission, have not done it, even on the contrary, I have always supported it for everyone. For my colleague Jovanović, please, I am discussing the principles. These principles of law in first reading, regarding absence.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22855	I'm asking you to listen to your colleague, so give me some seriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22856	Please, I wouldn't comment, but it's a very important law. I individually about the amendment, I'm very pragmatic, I individually won't. I have participated as a member of the Commission and I do not want to discuss the objection of my colleague Zorić as a proposing, it is a very subtle law and that is why a working group of this Parliament has been formed. That is why we spent days and hours of the commission and this agreeing on these amendments and the members of the Commission and the Vice-President of that Commission, Raguž, and which is why the commission had to be a working group like this. So when an amendment is adopted, if it is not consistent, it disrupts the full concept of the law, and that's why we, I think, the chairman of the law, were when we formed that working group and when the Ustavno-pravna combed every amendment in detail and suggested that some amendments even withdraw. My fellow promoters gave up the amendment. And, in the end, I want to say about counterpart Novaković, or Jovanović, which is why I cannot agree with the principle that there is a question of voting in absentia. Please, we commission 24 had a direct OHR emergency, when the issue was passive and active voting law, so they said, when it was said there must have refugee status, and in some countries foreign, if he is a BiH citizen and has refugee status has a different solution, there is no refugee status, OHR has suggested to the commission and we adopted it by majority of votes, that this, proof of that status be more flexible with some other document. So, in the spirit of that law, we've passed. And, thirdly, we are fully aware that the vote in absentia is imposed and specific to BiH, so as not to say for what reasons. Therefore, in these principles, I believe that they are not set up at this stage and that requires us to be the international community and Article 2(2). The BiH Constitution on the guarantee of human rights, which is a catalog of human rights and passive and active voting rights for every BiH citizen, whether he was in BiH or abroad, is so in the Constitution and so asks the international community, and under these seditions is in spirit and this law is electoral, which we have had good co-operation with the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22857	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. There are now a few requests for a few replicas. He had a few useful gestures for colleagues to be good with party presidents, it's not bad, of course, and finding that women are mothers, as are men's fathers. But here's a call from counterpart Majkić and Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22858	Dear colleague Sipović, I really thought your speech would look different. And your colleagues sitting here and the women of BiH don't mean anything by your principled support, because you remain at the level of a woman as a reproductive machine. I'm asking you to spare us that. That's one thing. Secondly, what is a real framework, Mr. Sipović, is the presence of women in public and political life. A real framework that makes us more than 50%. We are mothers, and you are fathers. Do you think your obligation is smaller? Dear colleagues, don't banalize. Mr. Chairman, please control the discipline in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22859	Please listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22860	I beg you again, don't let us banalize this thing. We're trying to do the best we can at this point and I'm asking you to have an understanding of what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22861	The Republic was sought by counterpart Jovanović. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22862	Just this. You've obviously replaced Mr. Sipović. So I wasn't talking about voting in the mail. So, what you said was post-it vote, it's a vote out of BiH. I was talking about a vote in absentia and I'd like to ask you here specifically. Do you think anyone who was in '91? The year, here, was he in Zvornik, so he went to Tuzlo, so now he's back to Zvornik to vote in Zvornik, Zvornik or Tuzla for Zvornik? So, I'm talking about a vote in absentia, not a post office vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22863	Are you Mr. Križanović for discussion or replica? My colleague Sipović, then there are regular discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22864	Dear colleagues, I absolutely don't think of my colleagues and women as reproductive machines, it's taken out of context, on the contrary, as a man I love women very much. Therefore, an esteemed fellow replica, indeed, I will be very brief. What you've asked me is a question that's settled by the Constitution, stronger by law than by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22865	Thank you. Let's have regular discussions. A colleague of Ljilja Milićević, then Mr Jozo Križanović, then Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, here's a lot of bids for this discussion, I thought I was speaking when they were amendments, but I think some things need to be put down a little ball and explain. As for making changes and supplementing the Election Law, we were witnesses and we were quite freely invited and renamed by different media and means of information. So the atmosphere was created that the amendments to the Electoral Law would put women in a worse position than the positions they had in the current electoral law, so they called us into different media shows to comment on why the lists were closing, why there would be one woman between five and the like. So there's been pressure on the task force. As far as the working group is concerned, we will now say gender equality, or participation of women in the electoral process, has responded to these pressures by doing this research centre one material, all of us are interested in both European practice and practice in countries around the world. So how women are treated in the electoral process in European countries and, therefore, we have received data for most of the world's countries. What we could see, we saw that most of the time, except that in countries democracy is mature enough and where political parties are mature enough to know that by putting women on lists, by including in political life, they will gain quality, and not under the sea, it is most often where the corner system is introduced that it is 40%. It means that no 26 half can be less than 40% on the list. Our task force has come to the conclusion that nothing changes compared to the last electoral law on women, namely that we have the same solution that can't be less than 30% of women. Mr. Zorić, let me finish. What do I mean? It happens, when we received the amendment and the addition of the law, we were all MPs, MPs' clubs, and our gender equality commission were bombed by different letters from NGOs dealing with these issues as they say from Trebinj to Banja Luka, Tuzla, Sarajevo. We got it all. We are like the Commission, so plus support for such an initiative went from both the entity and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Gender Equality Agency. So we have from the NGOs and in some way the government's sector to support these amendments. Our commission, although not in charge of this directly, is the Commission for Gender Equality, but we are responsible for everything that treats these issues of gender equality, has held a session at which they attended, so the representatives of the government and the NGOs who wrote and demanded that we submit amendments both to them and to the discussion that was led us to the point of view, they insisted that we go with the amendments as they proposed them. We have proposed these amendments to the Working Group, i.e. the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and only one has been adopted and believe that hardly. I hope that no one will kill him today, and that was the amendment that applied to the statistics. It means that there is statistical records in all the electoral, at each level of the election process, and that statistics and records are some obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it fills out a UN report to the world. That's the one that's adopted. The other amendments, that amendment II, III and IV asked that we literally introduce black into the Election Law the white provision so that we say that on all the lists it means that each, that the candidates are changing by, are these amendments. We are on the Commission when, since I defended these amendments in front of the Commission for Gender Equality that no one means there is a ban on being each other or even being one means one half more or less, therefore it is not discriminatory for women that gender equality is not violated so interpreted and remains at the point of being political parties, or parties in which a woman is supposed to be found as a potential candidate and receive support, and an open list in itself is a sword with two blades. We all know. You can put four women, one man or the other. An open list and a voting method gives an opportunity to have someone of quality or one who is more popular in his own base to win. I ask you to reconsider these amendments when the time comes. So the amendments are in the sense that the candidates on the list are changing in turn by half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22867	I thank my colleague Milićević. The Republic was requested by counterpart Zorić, then by regular discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22868	So here's the replica or the correction of the incorrect quote. I was in the task force to make these amendments and supplement the Election Law, so here's the proposer. Mrs Milićević said several times that I don't know 30% of women, etc. So the existing changes and additions didn't change that, and they wanted to. So we wanted to make changes so that there could be 100% women on the list, and now that's not possible. 27 Now it is possible for a woman to be among the first two candidates, among the first and the most and the first five - three highest, among the first eight - five highest, etc. etc. That goes for men, too. So it's possible, not to be 30%. There could be five amongst the eight. That's over 60% tops. The smallest men can be as many as you speak. We wanted democracy to prevail in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we wanted there to be no open lists and there would be no sex restrictions on whether there would be any sex on the list, that they could be all men, or all women. But we've been warned from various international institutions that it's a great gain of democracy to be open lists, so let's say that a man from 28 places passes through the county assembly without a woman from another place. So it's probably big, but we said okay, you're more of a democracy forever and we let it go. So it's not true that a woman can't be more than 30%. There may be, but we wanted to make a law, or a bill of law to be all women, to allow them to be all women, so it seems to me that, I apologize, may I continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22869	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22870	Uh, I think there's been a problem with the women's party in the last election. And then we said, "Well, God doesn't have to." Then there were all kinds of demands. There were demands to be up to 35 years so much. Imagine that. Then we should have said, the list pretends to be so much on the list from 18 to 28 years, from 28 to 38 so much, then so much. So who makes such lists in the world? And please first I spent one pack of paper, so how many 500 pieces there, only on amendments from these various associations, etc. etc., and they're all the same. It's probably a force of argument, or an argument of force. I don't know what that means. I don't mind, but I tell you where I've been to political meetings from my party and other parties that a woman has less. Well, I guess that makes sense that there's fewer on the list. It's a practice, and the laws, by law, are totally even and I don't like to be said here that a woman can be so much, but should speak women and men can be at most between five and three, and at least two, two. Amongst eight – not more than five men, or women, and at least three etc. So we already know how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22871	I thank my colleague Zorić. Regular discussion Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22872	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to make a good suggestion that it's really starting to make a difference between the replica and the discussion, because we're applying for the replica before we get to the word. What I mean is that the atmosphere in which we are discussing the principles of the amendment and addition of the Election Law from the point of view of this aspect of gender equality
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22873	I'm asking you to follow me a little bit. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22874	points to our whole relationship with this issue. I'm not going to say it again, I'd like to say in general that I fully agree with my colleagues who have come forward on this matter. And since this is not about defending the Commission's amendments to gender equality, but about the principles of the law, I want to seriously draw attention that we have actually renewed these amendments in front of the Commission for Gender Equality because we are deeply convinced that the principle of gender equality is violated in accordance with the law that this country has. And that's the point. So today we will determine to support the principles of this law by counting on a serious and responsible debate when we run for these amendments that bring about the reality of this gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22875	I thank my colleague Križanović. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22876	Like this, counterpart Križanović said he was on the side of a colleague. I'm asking you not to take sides in this House. I want to be equal with all the MPs here and not be one side and the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22877	Counter, correction of the inaccuracy of colleagues Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22878	Right, it's about correcting an incorrect quote. Here I am not here to say that I support
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22879	Just women.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22880	I said I support the debate the way my colleagues brought it out here. Is this perhaps the opposite of gender equality again, I don't know, but I have the right to say so and I haven't made any new parties. You know what my party is. I mean, I really don't understand that remark.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22881	Thank you. Comrade Zorić again. I guess this is the end of the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22882	Have counterpart Križanović take a stenogram and see what he says. Let's not repeat anything else that he said what he didn't say. That's all there is to it. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22883	Thank you. The regular discussion of Dr. Gligorić and no more reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22884	Gligorić wants to say something on behalf of women.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22885	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22886	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things that apply to the principles, but first of all, I would like to say that I will not settle for Mr. Zorić on either side, but I will support the amendment of the Commission on Gender Equality, and I ask others to support it in order for the Bosnian Herzegovician male, male chauvinism today definitely to fall in this House. I think it's so good. Yeah, yeah. Because when we talked about this demo, when you told Mr. Zorić about democracy, when you were talking about
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22887	Let's just hear from each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22888	That democracy has given us here, that is, imposed by the international community, so what little woman you are here in today's Parliament, here in the present assembly, or at all levels, is that thanks to the international community that forced those who are building on men's majority of laws, so we have this kind of democracy imposed. Now we are able to develop this democracy ourselves if there is a willingness to do so. I'll support it, I won't put myself on either side, but when it comes to it. Now I'm going to tell the professors something else, I think when we talk about principles, the next phase is about amendments. I want to say that my two amendments are affecting practically the principles. I don't mean to talk about, when we're about amendments, but I just want to say that it would be good for my colleagues and colleagues to accept those amendments because one amendment requires a political party to have a mandate, not a elected candidate to prevent political corruption at all levels of elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why do I say that? Because what democratic principle, the principle of direct choice, we are simply in practice, we have virtually devalued. People who were on the lists left these parties for political corruption and each other and went to the other side. And I think that's the principle we need to discuss, and if you respect this amendment, we will address political corruption in the highest legislative body, because I guess our goal is to fight corruption and armed crime. I only know two examples. This is my professor Kunić who left the party and went practically to independent MPs. And another friend of his, that's my Mr. Blagojević, who was then taken by the government of Banja Luka by the name of the party. But a man, an independent messenger. Everything else is problematic. The second amendment, or another principle, refers to the fact that it would be good to talk about this, Mr. Zorić and the young to put it on the list. Why talk about that age structure. I've just suggested that by the age of 30, I've been late to go maybe to 35, give young people 30 a chance to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to deal with politics. You don't let them get into the HDZ list of young people. You don't give a man to God. That's why I'd like to make it our law. We talk about young people all the time, and when we have to say we'll give you a chance, enter the system institutions and make decisions for young people. No, we don't do that for them. You have been given to my colleagues and colleagues by many youth associations and that we do not waste time on it, because you have received those who are speaking in favour of this discussion and support this amendment in order to give young people the chance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since Mr Belkić is reporting, sir again about young people. I've always been incorrigible about young people for years. And I'm gonna die like that. That's right, Filipe Andrić. That's a good point. I therefore ask my colleagues and colleagues to support practically these two amendments when it comes to voting on them, because we will thus improve the principles of this law on both women and young people and prevent political corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22889	I thank the replica of my colleague Belkić, and my colleague Zorić. And Sejo's regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22890	I volunteered to try to rationalize this debate. So we're discussing principles, etc. I don't think the proposed law is questioning any of these principles that we're talking about. Of course there are people who want to point this out, that they are for it, etc. I have an understanding for that, too. But let's be a little bit more rational. Who thinks it's not enough that it should be more even than it is in law, let the amendments correct. So I claim that the proposed law, as far as the principle is concerned, does not compromise any of the principles that we are discussing. Therefore, it does not question the equality of anyone, nor of women, nor of men, nor of young men, nor of old, nor of yellow, nor of red, etc. Let's not waste any time. So whoever considers it necessary to strengthen equality to be even more equal, if possible of course, give it to the amendments. And that we don't go on proving ourselves who loves young, old, women, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22891	Thank you. A colleague named Zorić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22892	Well, this is ridiculous, not only have some colleagues dared to court women in Parliament here, but also young people. I believe that after this debate, Mr Gligorić, all the HDZ youth from Republika Srpska will vote for him, only unfortunately there is no more. Probably a good model for the number of women among MPs was the SDP model. In fact, HDZ has 40% of women's representatives, the SDA, seems to me also, or has an eye, now a little less, the Party for BiH also, SDS 40%, PDP 100%. But it's probably the best model of SDP - 0%. And probably they'll still be moralizing us here and courting the HDZ order, or the party, Jozo prejudges some new parties, always be the woman where I wonder. And I will not be courting anyone, but the works of every man speak best. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22893	Thank you. We now have a request for the replica of Gligorić, so Križanović. My colleague Avdić, I apologize. You've been recorded.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22894	Chairman, in the understanding that I have been appointed, Mr Zorić, I hope and will be good Bosnia and Herzegovina when the HDZ youth vote for me. But the question arises how many Krajina Srbin, who lived in Croatia, will vote for HDZ. Right? As for someone courting women and young people. I just want to say this to remind my colleagues that when I'm personally concerned with such a claim means it doesn't stand in the sense that I'm only doing it today. You have adopted the resolution here that the year, in 2004 and 2005, will be the years of young solidarity. This is the House of Representatives. We sent the Council of Ministers to implement that decision. Never! I asked for three million for youth policy, for young people who
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22895	I ask you to give me a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22896	Just a little bit of this is a false allegation, three million gentlemen you voted against. You didn't give it to the young. And now for the third time in four years, we're looking for something for them again. Is it courting or continuity, or is it real concern for those people that we left from these benches with our decisions?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22897	Best to court young people.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22898	I'm not gonna be a part of that majority ever. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22899	The college thinks it's best to court young women. Jozo Križanović was looking for a replica. Here's a colleague of Križanović. He just made a little joke, I'm sorry. Let's relax the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22900	I think what kind of atmosphere this debate is going on in, I'm not surprised that my colleague Zorić realized this courtship. This fellow Zorić is not an escarpment to court someone, but it is a law enforcement of this country. And just from that point of view, I personally as the president of the commission and the commission have come to the conclusion that, it believes that here the principle of not implementing the law that this country has, and that is gender equality and equal opportunities of both sexes, has been violated. The rest is real, the controversy Mr. Zorić brought out here, she's not even for bars, let alone for this home. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22901	Thank you. Dr. Avdić asked for a replica about it was last reported. We're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I also that colleagues and fellow respected guests consider political corruption a commitment and an attempt to think with my own head is an impeccable message for this parliament. And he best talks about a colleague from which party he comes, which means God forbid he should be by such rigid relations and ethics that someone would return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are missed historical investments and should simply be put slowly into the museum of missed political investment projects. So I ask you to weigh your words well when you speak and when you generalize simply some procedures or attempts. So I'm glad that the working group adopted the amendment we gave, which is that the mandate belongs to the MP, not to the political party. And that's the only possible simple possible explanation. And to say this, we've led this to absurdity really people. How many young, how many women, etc. etc. How could I not, and I am fond of such a single proposal, but you cannot deny the freedom of political parties to create lists consistent with the relations of forces and simply their simple views of the world and of the electoral process. No one has the right to do so, so this House has no right to restrict. And who forbids a party to put all women on the list. Which means that indeed absolutely these amendments, with all due respect, women are fairer, more correct, better doing their job, etc. and they need to be more in parliamentary benches, but objectively they can't be dealt with in the law. That's not being solved by the Electoral Act. This is resolved by the development of the political system and political parties and the influence of women in political parties as a result of democracy in these parties. So there's no democracy in political parties, there's no democracy here in Parliament either. That's right, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22903	I thank you for no further requests for discussion. A colleague, Novaković, reporting to help. But not again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22904	...to warn of Rule 58.2 of the Rules of Procedure when colleagues stray a little bit that you are obliged to warn them. Indeed, some of these discussions are not in the spirit of a parliamentaryism. But here's because there's no more discussion, then there's no point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22905	Thank you very much, I'm trying to take away no one's words when they wander off, and I'm trying to make some nice intrusion to relax a little and talk about the essence. 33 I conclude the debate of ladies and gentlemen prepare to vote, we vote on the Law of Principles in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's getting clearer now. - So 34, 1 versus, 1 abstention. I agree that we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law in the first reading, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, Elmir Jahić and Vink Zorić. I'm asking who's in favor of moving on to reading, to another reading. Prepare to vote. Here's a colleague of Jovanović. The Commission will respond in its second reading to all amendments and everything you need to ask. So it's very important if we go into phase to give her a chance to answer. So get ready to vote. Vote now. So I'm saying that with 29 votes to, one against, two abstentions, we're going to go to another reading. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regard, I am opening a debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. In the meantime, I'm asking if there's any need for a break. You've come to the benches signed and aligned with these proposals. If no one insists on taking a break, I'd like to have a discussion, and then eventually when we finish this agenda, we'll take a break. Do you agree? I am opening a debate, ladies and gentlemen of the amendments, as well as I would like to suggest, therefore, that it is good that this agreed text has come to light, because it seems to me that it might be a good idea for the first vote, to vote on these agreed amendments between the Commission and the Proposer and the Election Commission, and then to ask colleagues who think that this compromise solution puts their amendments ad act to give up the amendments and to vote only on them who remain in favour of the amendments. Do you agree? I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make clear about this proposal we received on the parliamentary benches, so there is a harmonised text of the amendment, signed by Elmir Jahić, Momčilo Novaković and Vinko Zorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that by 32 votes to, 1 against, three abstentions, we have accepted the agreed amendments of the legislator of this election law. And now, of course, my question is, who's pulling their amendments? We had a promise from a colleague of Ćeman. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22906	Well, I... I wanted to withdraw the other amendments, although there were some reasons that some might be discussed, but here's to get to the law as soon as possible, I'm pulling the rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22907	I thank my colleague Ćeman for his good contribution. Who further answers the question? Is there anyone else who can withdraw the amendments? There's no one here. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. Is there any need to talk about the amendment, even though we've exhausted it through the first phase? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Then let's make a statement about the amendments. Let's go to Amendment IV, Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 11, against 16.5 abstentions. I find Amendment IV to Mr Muhamned Moranjkić not accepted. We're moving on to the amendment. So Mr. Ćeman gave up the amendment. We move on to Amendment III of Mr. Moranjkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 13, against 15.5 abstentions. I find that Amendment III of Mr. Moranjkić has not been adopted. We are going to the amendment and the SDP of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 5, versus 27, abstentions. I find the amendment and the SDP of BiH not accepted. We move to a statement on the amendment and Mr Tihomir Gligorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 8, versus 23, one abstention. I understand that the amendment and Mr Tihomir Gligorić were not accepted. We're moving on to Amendment V of Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Amendment V-V-Muhamed Moranjkić. So for 8, versus 15, 7 abstentions. I find Amendment V Muhamed Moranjkić not accepted. 35 We declare the amendment and Mr Miloš Jovanović. Prepare to vote. Discussion. Here you go, buddy. It's over. It's over. We've moved on to a plea. I'm sorry. There's no argument. I'm sorry. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 9, versus 14, abstention 10. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the Commission's Amadnment for Gender Equality. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 12, against 13.8 abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. We are moving to Amendment III of the Commission on Gender Equality. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 13, versus 13, one abstention. Amendment III of the Commission on Gender Equality is not accepted. We are going to Amendment II of the SDP BiH Party. Prepare to vote. I didn't. That one's coming. Now you've confused me. Please, let's take it again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So get ready to vote. Vote now. That's the amendment. So four against 17, eight abstentions. I find Amendment II of the SDP not accepted. Amendment II of the Commission on Gender Equality was not accepted, we voted on it. Amendment III is not accepted either. We'll be right there. No, no. Take it easy, please. Let's get ready to vote on Amendment II to Mr Tihomir Gligorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. ________(?) [[not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22908	Well, no man is that capable. That amendment will come to the vote. Let the man work. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22909	Vote. We'll come, something will be left out. For 4, versus 17, abstention 4. Therefore, Amendment II Tihomir Gligorić was not accepted. We're going to the amendment and Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 9, versus 14, 7 abstentions. I understand that the amendment and Mr. Moranjkić were not accepted. We move on to Amendment II of Mr. Moranjkić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 9, versus 17, 8 abstentions. Amendment II to Mr Moranjkić was not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment III of the SDP BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For six against 19, seven abstentions. I find that this amendment has not passed either. Prepare to vote on Amendment IV of the SDP of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 13, v. 18, 3 abstentions. I find Amendment IV of the SPD BiH not accepted. We are moving on to a statement on the amendment to the BiH SDP. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For nine, against 18, seven abstentions. I find that Amendment V SDP BiH has not been accepted by which we have exhausted the debate and the vote on amendments that have come into the process. Which was dropped the amendment I have a signal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22910	Amendment III of the Committee on Gender Equality has been ispustiti. Can I just get a pay phone? Allow me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22911	Here you go. Come on. There's a mistake in my paper. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22912	Please, when we voted, we have three amendments to the Commission on Gender Equality, and we voted on Amendment III, and I was first in line with Amendment II. Therefore, we should return to Amendment II and accept that Amendment III has been voted on, with a mistake in the matter of Amendment II. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22913	Well, just for one amendment. For Amendment II of the Commission on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22914	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22915	Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 16, against 13.7 abstentions. So this amendment has been accepted. Amendment II of the Commission on Gender Equality. Please. You're looking for a vote again, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22916	Lawmakers, I am only obliged to warn, or to say that the adoption of this amendment has been unconsistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22917	Then please, I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's not the goal of getting inconsistencies. You voted. So for 12, v. 18, 4 abstentions. I find Amendment II not accepted. That's when we exhausted the vote on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to vote on the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Here it is, this is a good result. For 29.3 abstentions, 3 versus, 1 abstention. I agree that we accepted the amendment and the addition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law and in the second reading and thus obtained the conditions to move to the eighth point, that is 38 Ad.8. The draft law on the verification and settlement of liabilities based on the old foreign savings account, with the Commission's Finance and Budget Report, we propose a break of up to 2 hours for lunch. The college is proposing a break and we'll be back to work in two hours. We continue with the work of the Members of Parliament to take their seats. [[PAUZA]] So I ask the Service to determine if we have a quorum. I think we do. Can you invite the MPs to come and have a quorum to work with? We don't have a quorum to vote on. We don't have a quorum to vote on, but we have a quorum to work on. I guess he'll come. So we move to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. The draft law on the verification and settlement of liabilities based on the old foreign savings account with the Commission's Finance and Budget Report Ladies and gentlemen on the agenda is now the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget which is competent, unfortunately negative on the draft of this law. Representatives of the Exchange Savings Association asked to be allowed to attend the session during the debate on this legislative proposal as an interested party. Of course, their presence has been granted. I warmly greet them. I'll remind you that the Proposer of the Law is the Council of Ministers. In the Parliamentary Assembly, the Law was delivered on 30 December 2005 with a request to consider an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. At the 72nd session of 16 January 2006, we adopted a request for a procedure under Article 104. He appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget by a college of the home. On 15 February 2006, the competent commission conducted a public hearing on the draft law, so the material from the public hearing was delivered to the Council of Ministers, and asked the Council of Ministers to deliver its position to a number of amendments submitted on the draft law. On 23 March, the Commission requested the College to extend the deadline for considering the Report Law, since the Council of Ministers did not deliver a position on amendments which, according to the Commission's opinion, violate the principles of the proposed law. College made it, of course got an extension. The Finance and Budget Commission submitted a report on 13 March. You got the report. You saw that the Commission did not support the principles. With the report you received a transcript from a public hearing as well as a series of other contributions related to the proposal of this law. I note, therefore, that we have a negative report from the committee in charge that we are now discussing and deciding. We hope we don't need to remind you of the signed procedure when it comes to a negative report by the competent commission on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, before I open the debate, I'm just going to be a business distraction, and you know that there are three options today. 39 One is the opportunity to discuss the account and adopt it. If we adopt the Report, it means that the Law has fallen since the report is negative. The second option is to adopt the Law, and I don't know if it's business possible, although the law has not accepted the competent Commission and the Third to try to create room for new moments today with new arguments to ask the Commission for a new report to give it a deadline of at least 10 days for the Council of Ministers and others to try to come to the draft law first that will be accepted, which will solve the problem of old foreign savings to the satisfaction of those who suffer the problem, and these are old foreign savings and that we get to the enforceable law in this country. So I guess you know as well as I do that foreign savings don't need good, not applicable law, like we don't need bad law. So the goal is to try today's main debate to point out new moments that could be guidelines to the Commission, the Council of Ministers and others to come out within 10 days with a new report, after which we would bring the final position of this House on this, I would say a serious problem within Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it, with notes. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Yes, there is, Mrs. Majkić, then Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22918	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, I would like to say a few words about this law. You are aware that the Finance and Budget Committee is at its 9th session. 3. did not support the principles of the proposed verification and settlement law based on old, old foreign savings account. This is because the proposed text of the Law has more amendments than clubs and MPs, of which only three have been partially accepted. Some of the amendments that have not been accepted have entered directly into the very essence, that is, the principles of this law. In the light of the fact that the Finance and Budget Commission has sought in all ways to address the problems of the old foreign exchange savings, you know that a public hearing has been held under the proposal of this law, which has made comments and suggestions and suggestions as to how all of this should be included in the amendments which are unfortunately not accepted in any segment by the promoters. This promoter did not show even a basic gesture of goodwill that in something, what was publicly said to respect this law. I can understand that the problem of old foreign savings cannot be solved on short notice. But I can't understand that there isn't a single proposal by the association of old foreign savings that couldn't be considered. On this basis, I want to look back at some of the foreign savings proposals that mean none of them are accepted. As you know, the Law is prepared at the request of the Commission for Human Rights at the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it is ordered to deliver by an emergency procedure, a framework law governing at the level of the state the issue of old foreign savings and ensuring the same status of all foreign savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dosages which foreign currency savings were articulated at the public hearing were as follows: Foreign Savings requested that this bill cover old foreign exchange savings among all banks, including Ljubljana, Investiciona and other banks that had no domicile headquarters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the bill only saves 40 that were held in savings banks based in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and according to the finance minister, the other banks will be subsequently covered by special state laws or regulations. When? We don't know. This gives foreign savings the right to suspect good intentions to resolve their problem, or discrimination between foreign savings. The second point -- foreign exchange savings demanded that the process of verification of the claim be excluded, both the Constitutional Court and the Ombusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which acts as an act of verification of old foreign currency savings in Republika Srpska, be treated as a particularly unacceptable way of interference with property rights. The Ombusmen recalled that the principle of non-discrimination is the basic principle of human rights, and that any distinction that does not follow is absolutely forbidden. However, the proposal considers that the process of verification of old foreign savings is necessary because the holders of the old foreign savings do not have a record in the citizens' single account, as well as due to the inaccessibility of data as a result of changes in the banking system. Furthermore, foreign currency savings require that entities must declare themselves on bond emissions, meaning that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be guaranteed, but also obligations to settle under existing laws on entities providing cash-delivery funds, or issue bonds, and the proposed entity law deprives the right to issue bonds and leaves the obligation to settle obligations on the basis of old foreign currency savings. However, the promoter believes that the issuer of Bosnia and Herzegovina is an eminence, as everything else would mean that the state is harshly violating constitutional legal obligations within the meaning of Article 1. Protocol No. 1. European Conventions. And under four -- foreign exchange savings require the period of payment to be from 5 years, including interest until the time of cash payment, and the proposer states that the proposed payment deadline raises the country's liquidity and remains at risk for the proposed period of 15 years, calling for the restrictions set by the IMF, i.e. only on the basis of the payment of the internal debt. Also, the promoter believes that interest on foreign exchange savings, other than bonds, is not acceptable, because the Human Rights Commission at the BiH Constitutional Court said that part of the internal debt relating to the old foreign savings is a major burden on Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and that the issue of write-off interest is justified by public interest. It states that the reason for the loss of interest is not an unwarranted failure to pay the old foreign currency savings, but the events that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina after '92. A year. Foreign currency savings are asking for sources of funding to be listed. The promoter believes that the precision of the funding source is not acceptable in the proposed way, as this bill pays off old foreign savings gives priority to changing the same priority in the service of external debt. Therefore, it is evident that most of the BH association for the protection and return of the old foreign savings will be unsatisfactory. Unsatisfactory with the proposal for a framework law on the verification of the settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign exchange savings account proposed by the Council of Ministers by a special solution on the payment of old foreign currency savings by bonds within 15 years. They also estimate that the proposal for this law is unsustainable is not constitutional and has the same form as entity laws that have been declared unconstitutional by constitutional courts. Most participants in the 41 public hearing agree that the old foreign savings must be returned to the citizens, and that it is the country that assumes responsibility for the verification and resolution of the issue of old foreign savings as soon as possible. Many public hearing participants believe it is realistic for Bosnia and Herzegovina to resolve the issue of old foreign savings by December 2001 at the latest. They also believe that this bill violates the right of citizens, the owner of old foreign currency savings, and its fundamental disadvantage is that they point out that the legislator provides for bonds that do not guarantee that they will ever be paid, and the legislator is obliged to ensure that the bonds are paid, which is nowhere in this law. In line with the above, I propose that this House show an interest in the quality solution to the issue of old foreign savings and continue to look for a solution that will be acceptable for both the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for a large number of citizens of the old foreign savings. I therefore propose that the proposed law be returned to the promoter for further supplementation, that the moderation of payments for old foreign savings be considered in the draft law should be incorporated and other mechanisms, such as to enable bonds based on old foreign exchange savings to buy shares of state capital on the stock market, purchase of a business space in state property, land and other property in state property, and that old foreign savings be used for the payment of taxes on sales, excise taxes, property taxes, income taxes and VAT, within the deadlines within which bonds are due for payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22919	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22920	I thank Mr. President, I will be much more concrete and shorter than my distinguished colleague Majkić and, unlike you, I will not show regret that it is a negative report, but my joy, because the law is so bad that a positive report would be for Bog to cry here, and not to regret it because it is negative. I must express a second regret, which is that the Council of Ministers, in the second opportunity it received from the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, when the law was reinstated after a public debate with all amendments, which have been tabled by individual representatives and clubs, did not adopt a more important amendment in the truth, but rather by some who are irrelevant at all. They were adopted, the important amendments concerning the principles of the law did not accept, did not respect the voice of the people, or the voice of the savings, who were here, spoke to their problems and asked this country to finally, seriously approach the resolution of these issues. Therefore, I think that if BiH is to be a serious state in the truth, it must be seriously put to its citizens on this issue and my club, namely the HDZ Club, given the facts about the current state of the law, it has also proposed guidelines, under which the revisions of this law should be carried out, i.e. that would mean almost a new law. So, I think that all of these guidelines have been delivered to us, that I don't read them here, that I don't bother you, that you can read them, and we can discuss them, possibly, if there are suggestions to improve these guidelines and finally make a statement and give a concrete task to the Finance Commission and the Council of Ministers to finally, according to these guidelines, instruct 42 acceptable laws to this house, which would finally, after 15 years, begin to return to people what the state has taken from them. I thank you and, in the end, I will do what I forgot at the beginning. Here, to welcome and express the satisfaction that there are representatives of the association, headed by Amil Softić and Gabrijel, Miloš and others, who also have the opportunity to hear Parliament thinking and I hope that we will send them today encouraging messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22921	I thank Mr. Andrić. The word is made by the chairman of the dom of gopsodin Špirić. Let Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare, then Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22922	Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, what I would like to achieve in this debate is that we are not having a debate as per the previous point, and that the result of the vote shows what he showed. So I appreciate that today there are representatives of the old foreign savings and this is the problem and I think we should speak as state deputies on behalf of the state, to come to a good law, which will solve these problems, and we are not the ones who should be the loud speakers of the Association of Old Foreign Savings. So what's very important to me is that we get to the adaptable and good law and get rid of that problem. Representatives of different associations of old foreign currency savings have presented their vision, provided a range of opportunities that they think solves the problem. The Council of Ministers came up with a concrete text of the law, which the Commission of this House did not accept, but what my biggest regrets are about laws, which are of a material nature which we as MPs in this bill that we received from the Council of Ministers did not get state mathematics, which must follow this law, so that we can explain to people whose interest it is to explain why the deadline is not five years, why it can be seven or eight or ten years, etc. So we have no answer here as to how the old foreign savings affect BiH's internal and disputed debt. We do not have the dynamics of social product growth, we do not even have an analysis of whether the self-sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be compromised. How can this affect the budget and what is the optimal solution of, say, a couple of models that can be offered. This is a problem and it's looking for serious state math. I'd like to say, let's say that I can have parallel data to say, here, it's not five years, but let's see what happens if it's eight years or ten years or 15 years. When that is the point in which BiH will be able to solve this problem and send a positive signal. I know that old foreign savings have shown too much patience perhaps waiting for this problem to be solved. That's why I think that proposal, which I said, is to give a new ten days, because we have to bear in mind that the Constitutional Court's decision to seek a solution by 17 April is legal. So, to give a new deadline of 10 days for the Council of Ministers to be together with the Commission, I have to say that the different views of international institutions, that perhaps with the American vault, their representatives, are also talking and trying to find a model that will, in the most appropriate way, solve this problem. 43 So, I am therefore to give a new ten-day deadline and to all these, all of this which my colleague Filip Andrić was talking about, therefore, to the HDZ-Democracy Club, what many others would like to talk about, to say that through the commission, it is trying to bring this law into shape to be a good state law, to solve the problem of old foreign savings, whether foreign currency savings are expected for five years, or eight or nine years, for me it is less important. It's important when we get to the law, that the law solves this problem, and that we know when the year is beginning and when the year is the end of this problem. I don't see it from this law, except they say it's 30 years old. For 30 years it has been a mockery of this problem and I think the Council of Ministers, and if it is guided by proposals of different, perhaps international organisations, perhaps it should not have come out with such a proposal. Unfortunately, I don't think BiH is in such a situation that it can't solve this problem in a shorter period, but there must be other solutions, not get the starting model and be stuck behind the starting model. I, therefore, ask you and I would like to assign both the Commission and the Council of Ministers to make different analyses, five years, seven years, ten years, thirteen years, to see what happens to internal and external debt, how much debt per old foreign currency savings makes the country's financial sustainability. So let's get this state math and be responsible people to say. We'd like to settle this in five years, but in five years, it's impossible, because it's going to bring down the country's economic self-sustainability, and that's not even the goal of a representative of the old foreign savings. Let's see if we can do it in seven to eight years. And they're tolerance people. So that's what I expected the Council of Ministers to follow this law, so that they can be defined on the basis of mathematics. There is no one here who is politically against solving this problem. There's no such thing as a messenger. But in order to make the best decision in the interest of this group, we have to have the mathematics that follows this law. So I don't know if I've been able to make myself clear to the end. I think we should give a new ten days with these new clues and try to find an optimal solution that this problem can solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22923	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word is Mr. Izet Hadžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22924	Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues, we are discussing a law where 15 years of foreign exchange savings have a problem with this issue. So it's been 15 years since foreign exchange savings can't solve their problem. Right now, as an MP, I don't have any foreign exchange savings and I'm not saying I have any personal interest, but before I say anything about this law, I'd like a representative of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Finance and Treasury to answer a few important questions here. The first question is, in public, what becomes a dilemma is whether this problem is sufficiently transparent and recorded, because there are already differences in the amounts that are being sought. So, is that clear enough? That's the first question. The second question, whether BiH solves this issue as an heir or solves it as a goodwill and an act of goodwill, whether it is a matter of deficient saving or of solving what it wants that someone may not have taken action to ensure that the foreign savings, which, mostly, remained outside of BiH, is resolved in another way. So I want to ask a clear question. If the succession did not treat the foreign currency store 44 but left a special annex for the banks to raise the issue, what was done about it. That's another question. Because if a foreign exchange can be resolved without burdening BiH, then I want a clear answer as an MP that I know about this law. There are still a number of questions, but basically when I get at least answers to these questions, I'm going to suggest to the commission to get into the transparency of this problem, because I have a feeling that a lot of things here aren't exactly defined, and even that maybe some part of the foreign savings and hiding in banks in some accounts, etc. I would therefore perhaps propose a parliamentary commission to engage in the resolution of many issues that concern this issue. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22925	I thank Mr. Hadžić. Does the Minister want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22926	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very pleased that we have finally come to Parliament with this law. This issue and you know very well has been resolved until before this verdict, i.e. the Commission's decision on human rights in one other way. By then, entities had the right and obligation to resolve these issues. After the decision of the Commission on Human Rights in the case of a case against, it has a name on the verdict, now I don't know and it doesn't matter. Bosnia and Herzegovina was ordered to write the law urgently within a certain time limit, which will treat each of the savings in the domestic banks, or banks based in BiH in the same way. So, until then, it was settled by laws in entities, which were passed a year ago -- two days ago and those provisions that were most injure human rights, it's a deadline for possible return of savings, interest issues, etc. It caused a verdict that reads like this. We then created one working group of entities and states and made a law whose seventh version is this. This law, indeed, deals only with the question of old foreign savings in domestic banks and we will immediately answer questions from earlier on. So here, it's really not an old foreign currency savings that was in banks that were based outside of BiH. The issue of the Ljubljanska banka and the question of Invest Banka, this law, unfortunately, is not covered. These issues continue, you have seen recently that the Council of Ministers, who has been responding to the Committee's agenda, which requested Slovenia as a possible host of the Committee to resolve open issues and successions, has responded in a way that expects Slovenia to make a concrete proposal to return savings and that it cannot agree to a meeting of the Committee to discuss applying the territorial principle, in which BiH will take over immediately to return this savings to citizens. We can discuss this, and we need to talk about it, and we certainly need to solve the situation equally for people who have had savings outside BiH. However, this law was made in accordance with that verdict, according to that decision and therefore it looks what it looks like. He's really into what's written in it. It is necessary to make a verification of the individual roles of people's savings roles. Why? Because entities, meanwhile, have addressed these issues according to their laws, applying privatisation laws, on the initial balance sheet in different ways. One way of privatization was conducted in RS, the other being conducted in the Federation. So in the states in the unique accounts of the search, it's not the same condition. Meanwhile, the RS allowed payments to be made to this savings. The Federation has made it very brief that these funds are being used and then is no longer, except for the transmission to the PIFs and the blocking in this way and the PIF savings. There were different legal solutions, which now 45 require confirmation and are asking for the following, that every man, who has his own home number, who had his savings in the home bank and for himself, of course, and because of the state, who needs to know how much he needs to pay back to that individual man, should make a verification in a way that you don't take away the savings from anyone, but that means, within that certificate, you got, you had your savings so much, you were right, that's what you had 18 years of certification so much, etc. Let's see if it's written correctly then, if everything is recorded, and if you've been transferring it from foreign currency to this account, is it returned correctly. So it's really necessary to make a single book for each individual citizen of this country, and then the state is asking this to have a clear state of mind because of the entity's conduct. We propose this law to be done by these verification agencies, these are state agencies, which are the heirs of the former SDK, former ZAP. There was a lot of controversy about it. These agencies are state-owned and they have been selected, i.e. they have been taken over from entity laws, because it is known that which of them were the data related to this copy of this report by certificate and that, in the meantime, it is the fastest possible to obtain these data. The entity finance ministry will also cooperate and we will have a situation soon. Why is it important to have a situation quickly? Because since the date on which verification can be established, activities can be undertaken and that is why it is very important. So we suggest this is done because it's the way to do it. In this law when he's being watched further, he's talking about how much we, we assume he has old foreign savings. The state that didn't deal with this, the state level, the finance ministry, first began to deal with the issue of savings, after this verdict. So the state parliament was talking about this for the first time, because this wasn't our jurisdiction. We should, in fact, be happy and satisfied that we have a very high - quality bill, but in the sense of what it really says. So it says this is just savings in domestic banks. He does not treat this issue another, unfortunately, for people who expect the state to finally be fair and fairly quick to pay the citizens back, but what it says needs to be studied quite precisely and made possible by law and made possible by the state next. Entities planned this year in their budgets to pay for a hundred marks, up to a hundred marks of savings, whose checking of the balance of accounts is made. For 2007, entities are obliged to pay up to a thousand marks to each individual person, and by 31.3.2008, we are obliged to issue bonds, guaranteed by the BiH State, because they should issue bonds on behalf of and on behalf of the entity, in accordance with Article 18, in a way that, when we are constantly talking about the collection of VAT revenues here, customs duties, excise duties, when external debt is paid, then annuities by bonds will be paid. If it's said to be up to 15 years old, bonds can be issued after verification and, indeed, up to 15 years old means 13 years old, although it's not a nice number and at 12 years, etc., depending on what's left of us when we verify that data. So it's very important that we look at the country's macroeconomic situation, the ability to pay off the state, its stability, and that the sooner we get people back money, the sooner we wrote in this article 22, or which, by 2020, is the farthest possible, in line with this verdict, for all the people in BiH, who had foreign savings in domestic banks, should be paid in the same way the same day to the bonds that are half-yearly or annually after external debt and savings and the rest of the budget. So the state really guarantees this payment this time. That's why the Council of Ministers, when it looked at this together, dared to propose a solution like this at all. Now all that I'm saying now is you look at it. We were very brave when we suggested this. Unfortunately, we didn't do it 46 before, because we didn't have jurisdiction. This time we thought this would be a good solution. Of course, any solution can also be better said by the chairman of Špirić about a concrete calculation. He's really very important, most important, but he comes out of numbers. We assume there are... billions of obligations. We really don't know that. We haven't talked about the database, we don't have that option, but we're in agreement with the Central Bank, and with the help of the consultants... we've made one register at the Central Bank, we've made it possible for people to practice, so what it looks like is the register, how data is being entered, to issue these bonds tomorrow, to lead, means what's up to us physically to prepare for it. I'd be luckiest if we could finish this year and get back to all the people who've been certifying their savings to a hundred marks. That's how much money we have, we're so ready in the budgets, and that would really be one step, the final step, the right step from this country. I would also like to welcome the Ljubljana Bank issue to be resolved this year. At the beginning of the term, I thought we'd settle two things. One of these was this foreign savings, the other was VAT. Here's one thing that's come true for me, so we're going to fight it, and hopefully we're going to do this interest issue that's prescribed in the law, which is currently another question that's very interesting. Now that you look at the solution, which it says, how much interest on issued bonds would be, then, bonds must be issued from 31.3.2008 and must be paid at the most by 2020. That interest is inflation rate plus one percent. If we know that last year's inflation in the country was 3.7% and plus this one, it's a 4.7% interest. These are very firm bonds. Meanwhile, business banks are being prepared, they are being talked about buying these bonds and doing so everywhere in the world. The banks are actually the ones who take over bonds and pay people, of course discounted, it's nothing unknown, but this would be one way to really make this physically real, for people to finally start getting money from this state. I, indeed, advocate the law, really understand, especially saves me as the most sensitive category, as the only one left unscathed. We are many refugees, who have come to this state of the house, here we are all together... the only one we haven't done anything to do is, what we should have returned, we haven't done foreign savings. But this is one way for one category. So this doesn't really solve everything, and if the law were to be passed as soon as possible, then we could actually calculate and then we could say what years go by. Everyone would know, yeah, me in 1.12.2008, I put 22,000 marks and that would be one way that, indeed, would finally become operational and real, and that's why I'm so much in favour. I hope that after this debate we will be able to simulate the model,... so we will reduce it a little bit and increase it and make... a calculation, here, if it could convince all of you and save all of you and the general public that the model is good that it should be applied as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22927	I thank the minister. The word was sought by counterpart Belkić, so Milićević, Novaković, Raguž, Gligorić, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22928	First of all, the predecessors were Mr Špirić and Mr Filipović and Mrs Majkić, etc., mostly told me what was important to this matter. However, I expected the minister not to explain the solution for which we obviously do not have support. So there's no 47 need to explain the solution that, in some ways, is in ad-acts. We are now trying to find a way to keep us alive so as to say the possibility of solving the problem as quickly as possible. People have come out with certain suggestions, Mrs Marić, with guidelines, because when this parliament rejects the report and tells the commission to give people a look again, they need some guidance to be given. So it would be good to say what you think about what's proposed. It wouldn't be bad to hear, but here, let me finish. The other thing, you don't have to think about it in a dream the way that this gets to us. The state must be able to meet its obligations. We've been talking to the state for years without jurisdiction, and now that it's knocking on our doorstep, we're starting to earn something. So we have to accept responsibility and solve the problem as a state, a serious state, not getting into it entities did it, didn't do it, should they or shouldn't have. What Mr Špirić was saying about the figures, we all worked hard through the association and through the institutions of all kinds to get some data, we are full of data from different contracts and different natures and, of course, it brings confusion to us MPs, at least to me, but most likely that these data are close to the truth and they are, obviously, worrying about the possibilities of BiH, gross national product, etc. the external debt, also, which is not spoken of, saves me no offense, this state must service external debt as well as internal debt in the same way etc. There's one more thing to think about, to keep in mind. On April 17th, the verdicts become judicial. There is, to put it this way, the execution of things with the jury accounts of the budget, or the state of the entity, doesn't matter, they're all public funds, the disturbance is being made in the state. This should all be foreseen in some way and, of course, go towards the best possible solution to save, but making sure that the state does not question its basic institution. So, Mrs. Marić, I ask you best, I am one of those who is trying to make this thing go in the direction together with the MPs' club, to solve this thing, and please tell us in which direction to go whether some of these guidelines are feasible, whether they are close to some demands etc., and not returning to the commission something that will come without any instructions etc. and turn around again with unreal amendments, with unreal desires and come back here and look at each other and say let's go back or let's go back, how do we determine ourselves, because it's not easy for me to talk about, because I know it's very difficult to settle that individual, individual interest, general interest, etc. All this talk, but I know reliably that the state has a responsibility, regardless of what attitudes and opinions we have, that the BiH state should not take over all of this on itself, that it should solve otherwise than those who robbed this country, the poor, etc., I fully understand it, and I do not know what instruments the BiH state can come up with in order to properly resolve its relationship with the people who knock on her door. That's it. I ask you, Mrs. Marić, give us some of your views, if possible now, and that we in some way bring this back to life and bring it back, and that together with the associations, we will once again lead the dialogue and try to come to a common solution. I'm sure no association, no man asks to put a state of his own, so to speak, under ice, but simply seek some kind of compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22929	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Ljilja Milićević answered the question. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22930	Thank you. I would also join the discussions on behalf of the SDS Club, not to repeat what my colleague Majkić said, Mr Andrić, Mr Belkić. So we're aware of the total problems and the need to pass a law, but we also can't stand the view that waiting on April 16th and receiving that term, when it can be a terrible thing to postpone 15 years, a way to wait five days earlier, and then to accept the law because it's better than none. Because we were ten years old in the meantime where we didn't do anything about it. We received the law on December 30th and, if one law was reached, which is said in a thorough manner, this was approached and all possible solutions were sought and at least three times the opportunity was given to the Council of Ministers to do something under this law and a public debate was made and you were invited by all colleagues. We took part in it, and, in the end, we came into a situation where none of us today who talk like we're talking about didn't withdraw their amendments, and they voted on the principles, and there weren't any that the amendment didn't touch them directly in principle. So something about this law is wrong. Whether we'll admit it today or admit it on April 15th or 16th, twenty-four hours before, or we'll say it then. Listen, either we're broke or we raise our hands for this law. Whoever's ready to go to that story should be happy. What am I saying? It immediately defined itself at the first time we received the law, the first amendments pointed to what was crucial, what was wrong with the proposed solution. I don't know for what reason, there was no understanding of the Council of Ministers or they shouldn't or didn't want to, they couldn't, I don't know, say none of what could change. We didn't have a single minister at the public hearing. This room was full. No single minister was nor the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, none of the gentlemen came. We just got minuses besides everything. Nothing's acceptable. None of your amendment colleagues are as acceptable as mine or anyone else. So, I don't mind the commission getting this back, but if we meet here in ten days with a negative report, so someone's hunting someone to raise their hand, so I'm taking my hat off for it. In the meantime, a new moment. It's a report from the Archives, on which, you see, here it's said, a public general interest. I welcome the people who are here and all of us. I don't have a personal word Mr. Hadžić said to the savings, but there's one of those old ones he was saving for the funeral, as they say. What's this about? It's about how long the public interest of a state like this can be so great, and the interest of an individual is so small that we can drag him out for 30 years. So general interest can be questioned in what sense, so if it is disproportionate to the individual's interest. Well, that's what the European Convention is talking about, that's what the Simeon report is talking about. Secondly, we eliminated one good piece of the savings at the beginning of point two, so we said, the dots for these don't apply. For who? For the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka. So we're treating our citizens unevenly. Why we're not in attitude 2. I don't expect the Council of Ministers to make a magic wand here at KM station, they said, but the regulations, which will be regulated by the Ljubljanska banka and Invest Banka, will give rights to these savings and nothing less than the right that gives this law to these other savings. How can we make a difference between our citizens? The guy who went to this bank had a guy who had a screw, knew what was going to happen, so this isn't right. The Ljubljana Parliament, you see, Slovenac found in Parliament that they do not need lawsuits, Malta should not be rejected, not considered. So what our citizens owe them is not the problem of Slovenia, and it certainly isn't ours either. Then, writing off interest to people, so you see, if the right to man is protected, his book, his, we're going retroactively into that protected right. I really, when we look at what the internal debt laws have fallen on, 49 what they say to them, what my colleagues have respected, which is why they fell, all of this is in this legal solution to the same remark and what my colleague would say, and we know that the European conventions above the Constitution of BiH are an integral part, but we will no longer have a lawsuit on those laws that were before, but will now read in BiH, for the reasons it has listed. It is this unresolved question, with respect for Mr Tadić and the decision that he is, that we are obliged to make laws within three months. In my opinion, it is doubtful that someone can force Parliament to pass the law, and perhaps Mr Tadić will write on that same law in May that we have passed an unconstitutional law and that's where I take off his hat, so this is what you respected, and this is not what you did. I suggest that the House of Representatives, or the College, send a letter to the Commission on Human Rights of the Constitutional Court, which will inform about the steps and what we consider to be controversial, so let people answer what is controversial, see if we can go with the amendments, if we can write people interest. Is it constitutional, legally required to verify a man's savings, his own book, which he carried. These are open issues and the SDS Club until it gets an answer to those questions will insist on the amendments it has tabled.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22931	I thank my colleague Milićević. A colleague, Novaković, Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22932	Mr. Chairman, the club's views were expressed by Mrs. Milićević, I would not repeat that, but I only have a few sentences to say. In fact, I can't help thinking that we had to work this fast, regardless of the Commission's position and the Constitutional Court's position. The whole law, if seen, then it gets the impression that, indeed, it was done in a hurry, not in three months, but in a hurry, I mean, we didn't respond at the time and when we got it. Of course, it's not even controversial now. The minister said that we only did this because it was a court order and it was our accident. Our problem is that we only did it because the court asked us to, and we as a state did nothing without a court, that we didn't take a single step without waiting for the court's ruling. And that's exactly what the solutions are offered. So, solutions that need to satisfy the form, not the essence. And if we look at all this now, then the law itself doesn't fit the text of the law. In fact, there he should also read the law on the verification and settlement of the old foreign savings account in BiH, therefore, only those in BiH. Well, then, a part of these remarks, in some ways, would have avoided it. Also, if we read the proposal, we see that the Commission has ordered that an emergency procedure be passed a law that would be at BiH level... an old foreign savings issue, not counting in BiH, but an old foreign savings issue. This law has not fulfilled the court's decision. These are these warnings, which we have here from people, and maybe it's a better suggestion to send a letter and say we didn't make that law out, here's why we couldn't do it. I am sure of one thing that we did not do, that BiH did not do everything possible to resolve the issue of old foreign savings. Special issue of the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka. What we have done here seriously as a state on this issue, except that they met once here at a meeting of BiH and Slovenia officials and said they would seek to resolve the issue. Did we file 50 charges against Slovenia? Have we responded to Parliament's decision that their courts do not prosecute claims against the Ljubljanska Banka? We didn't react. So we didn't do everything and we don't have to say that we did. The only possible solution here is, therefore, to get this back to the commission, to have a committee with the Council of Ministers find a solution, be careful, but with the Council of Ministers, at the will of the Council of Ministers, not with the Council of Ministers, which rejects everything the commission and MPs propose. I respect the guidelines of the HDZ and Demohrišćan Club, but, watch out, the Council of Ministers has, after all, rejected the idea of getting some of these guidelines into the law. And those guidelines are an empty story if we don't have the will of the Council of Ministers to finish the job. So, I did so to bring this back there, but with one, indeed, one serious warning to the Council of Ministers to take seriously the suggestions and remarks that have been made here at Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22933	I thank my colleague Novaković. Dr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22934	Thank you, Mr. President. It is certain that the savings must be returned to the debt as soon as possible. We can't wait 10 to 15 years to die and get back. People have been robbed. The Balkans may have been the largest robbery in 100 or 200 years of the last savings. The state has fallen apart and there's no telling who has to pay that debt back. I think the Council of Ministers has made little effort to make up a consistent law, which would contain different solutions. As far as I know, the savings are satisfied with the different solutions. Not just with the money. Why in Banja Luka choose some of the best posters, so let them choose to save the salary in Banja Luka. Also in Sarajevo. Why should we have priorities for newly-compromised politicians or newly-compromised patients to have choices everywhere, and they don't. There's a question. Who stole people's money? Where are Markovic's loans, what were they given? Who returned those credits to Markovic? Why don't the state direct your attention... People who took loans before the war never returned their loans. There's not even a list, there's probably nothing. It's a Jawlight clean. And, of course, the most people in this situation. It's nowhere in the world. It didn't happen anywhere. Now that we have one carelessness, we have no concern for these people. Please, where are the newly-compromised Bolats who robbed this country as a whole? Why are fairies and cities rising, grand castles, where did that money come from? So that's stolen. This state must think about one law, a very serious law, which proposed a similar law, but may not be on that path by the SDP gentlemen, so Jozo Križanović, but I disagreed in some things. So, that's one way to provide funds to compensate the savings. That's one time. So, this speaking state has no jurisdiction, etc., these are the flossules that we listen to all the time in this House, that there is no jurisdiction. He's got jurisdiction. They have a part of the government, entities have jurisdiction. Well, according to data, a billion marks were robbed in RS. It's probably been robbed in the Federation maybe double. Where's that money? Who's responsible for that? Is this a reformed judiciary in BiH, which has been implemented, etc., so where are the results of the reformed judiciary? What are the D.A.'s office doing? These things the Council of Ministers must also consider through various different solutions and roads to find a solution that will indeed satisfy these people. We can't stay in these people's debt. So why should our presidency spend five million marks a year, and people can't get what they saved. Well, they can save a little money, too. 51 So, if there is a political will, unique at the level of the state, of course, and at the level of the entity, these things can be very successful and very quickly solved, just have a political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22935	I thank Dr. Kunić. Word has a colleague, Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22936	Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives, distinguished guests, respected presidency, quite frankly, but I think this question is a challenge for all of us, so at least a few clues through the answers to the questions I've asked myself, and they've been asked by all of us people, who have been damaged for a long time, who are seeking their rights and who, unfortunately, we've seen 15 years since they've lost those rights can't realize them. The first question I asked myself, and now Mr. Kunić has finished, is there any political will in this country to resolve this, which is a fundamental issue. If there is political will, it will reflect in one law, which will make it possible. And here we are in an institution that can pass the law and show that there is a political will in this country to respect private property as sacred and to restore trust in this country and, behold, we are testing it today. I'm not getting into what the Council of Ministers wanted here anymore. The Council of Ministers, according to this concept of the law, wanted to do the form. He didn't show a policy of will to solve this issue. Does Parliament have the strength to impose this political will on the Council of Ministers, not to ask the Council of Ministers to adopt some of our guidelines? That's another question. And, let no one say that for 15 years, after we have implemented all reforms in the banking, fiscal system, we are performing BiH's impeccable international obligations, and we need to, but we also need to do it towards our people. Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a system that can answer this question. I responsibly argue that it has infrastructure and capacity and that it is only political irresponsibility, to pass a fair law, which will not challenge the country's macroeconomic functions, but which will not say it will be settled in 15 years. And, my opinion, therefore, if they keep telling us to take responsibility institutionally for this country, that's what the IMF, the European Union, the Office of the High Representative tells us, and when you want to pass one such law, then they tell you it can't do that, you have to do that first. So, this double-plays all the time, and the responsibility, the voters, they're looking for a responsibility. They're not asking the IMF. Let this law, indeed, involve 300 thousand people. It's not a few people, so multiply it by your families, and multiply it by the times that people have lost for 10 to 15 years with nerves and health and all that they have left behind. Let's start putting our trust in this auction. Let's really cross those day-to-day political positions and, let's not say, party positions and show that we can pass the law. If the Council of Ministers today through the Ministers present here, which I respect, respect and know how it works, cannot take over any of the strategic suggestions given by the public debate and Parliament, then I have no confidence that the Council of Ministers will do so, which means that we will give up or we will order the Commission to consider this debate expertly, to make certain simulations and to call on the Council of Ministers and that we have a law within a certain period and that is taking responsibility and, therefore, I am. That's why I want us all involved and that, indeed, within the time limit that the Constitutional Court has ruled, we have the law. The law I said will not question the functioning of this country and let no one say that ten years is a deadline that can burden this 52-nation country, so it can be done for a little while so that these financial powers in the world get a little worried, if not one month paid off by them, paid off by foreign savings in BiH. Finally. So my proposal is, therefore, to return this report to the Commission, to give a new deadline of 15 days, to give guidance and to call on the Council of Ministers again, to take responsibility in what they say best, and to have law in April, which we can implement, which will not be a form and which will not be just further clouding these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22937	I thank Mr. Raguž. Dr Gligorić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22938	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the old foreign currency savings, I am pleased that you are present and that you can see how widespread political will is in BiH, in this House and, I agree with Mr. Professor. Kunić and Mr. Raguž, when they said political will was needed, because political will passed laws. In this case, if we have a political will and, if we make one fair law, then we will get one good law, which will be in the interest of all, taking care of the interest of the BiH state in this case and entities that have an obligation. I think that's where we can find the middle measure. I join those who said we had to do this because the BiH Constitutional Court asked us to. There's always someone in BiH who makes us do something. In this case, there's been no concern that we can figure out what this is all about. Let's make a list of priorities for law-making. We're sick of reform, and we're getting worse. All that we need to satisfy Euro-Atlantic integration, and what about internal reforms, what about the problems of ordinary and honest BiH citizen, such as this, when it comes to old foreign savings. Why didn't we put that kind of priority and pass the law? Why does someone always have to make us pass the law? It stands out somewhere on April 16th when we need to pass that law after the Constitutional Court's decision. And I wish the Minister had come out here for a moment, because she says we need to simulate some model. This is about why they didn't do it, but they did it on principle we're going to offer you a bill that's bad, and if it goes well, it's good for power, and it's bad for old savings. The intention here is dangerous, bad, working on a law that offers such a legal solution speaks a lot about those people sitting in the Council of Ministers. We'll try to trick you, if that goes away, it's good. If it doesn't come from another attempt, we'll be honest. Then we open up the debate, then we buy time, and here we are. I agree with Mr. Raguž's proposal, and I agree with what he said by the chairman of Professor Dr. Špirić also on this trail to try to make sure that this issue is resolved to leave a deadline for the Commission and, in coordination with the Council of Ministers, offer one of the acceptable models, respecting the requirements of the old, old foreign-saving associations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in this direction provided very actively and offered certain solutions. They love Bosnia and Herzegovina, too. It now turns out that they are opponents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they are looking for what they have earned. It's as if they in their own, in their version of what they're offering, which may be the worst voice right now, as if that's the variant of something that you want to tear down the institutions or the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's not how it should be understood, but I think you can find a middle solution. 53 That's why there's one serious problem here. The final executive decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. The Council of Ministers will not answer, Parliament will not answer, cannot answer the collective body, but individually in the Council of Ministers, if one of you decides to file a criminal report and how it will respond. Let's let the people out there in that executive power sort of get a sense of it. I can only go to jail for this question. And I don't want to scare anything here or judge it. I don't know what you're going to do, it's your own activity in that we can't interfere. But it's quite possible to come to that. Therefore, I think that, we from Parliament are offering a possible solution which we offer the hand of co-operation to the Council of Ministers to try to help us. Because we were talking about privatisation reform. Professor Kunić talked about it. We're spending that privatisation. They want the international community. They want a market economy. So will we, but how did that happen? Checking the old foreign savings. They built their chances there that they could, and they could never own it, because more people don't have cash. I don't know if an old savings company has become the owner of a small factory. But now your money has been found in these small businesses and, of course, large businesses. So we use them. It's their pain. We know that we put something like that into the legal laws of some other law, but when we have to solve the basic question, then we offer some solutions that are the level of damage. Of course, here I would also like to ask my colleagues who are in the Finance and Budget Committee. We're not calling now. There they vote for the bad law of the Council of Ministers, and here they come and talk nicely, because something else needs to be said. Let's be honest. But I can have two principles. I zalagati also be on the committee for something if I consider it justified, I will stand in Parliament and on the street in front of every citizen, and even if I am wrong, I will defend my position, but I will not change it from opportunity to opportunity. And that's why I think this proposal of Mr. Raguž is ultimately acceptable and I will support him as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22939	Thank you, Dr. President. Gligorić, but dear colleagues, just a little bit, I didn't want to at first, I didn't want to draw attention to the way you guys do it. This would not have been before Parliament if your colleague, Nikola Špirić, too, had not filed a motion for the Constitutional Court to be seen about this problem. Thank you very much. So you just know that this came before Parliament and that Parliament is not irresponsible. We were actually responsible and I only did what was my constitutional right to bring this to Parliament. I regret that no one from the Council of Ministers is here and unfortunately this is another answer that we are talking to ourselves, but here we are going to get out, I hope that we will eventually come up with a good legal solution. A colleague of Križanović asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22940	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it might be good for me to give up, since colleagues and colleagues have really said a lot about it, which I could easily agree on. But that's why I'll be very brief. 54 You see, so we are in a position where on one issue from the domain of human rights, therefore from property rights, this state should protect and guarantee this right to its citizens. Unfortunately, this is what this state and this Parliament are doing in a single teat based on a decision by the Constitutional Court, or the House of Human Rights. You see, today we mentioned a restitution. I believe that there will be no agenda and restitution until pressure comes from the Constitutional Court or similar institutions, because unfortunately lately the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been acting on the pressure of the judicial authorities and the OHR. So there's no dilemma whether to pass the law. The law, here all the problem is raised on the real resources of the country's ability to execute in the shortest and most qualitative way to make my commitment to my citizens on the basis of their undeniable right. What I particularly agree with my colleagues and colleagues is what is annoying in the proposal for this law which cannot be gained by one real impression of whether all possibilities have been considered, all real resources to compensate for these rights to savings. Including, of course, the liabilities of banks that had those foreign savings deposits. That's why I stand for this, as a principle, the worst thing would be to pass a bad law that would compromise the state, and yet unsatisfactory saves. I appeal to this bill to make this thing go away in 10, 15 days, but with one serious obligation from the motion to present all possible real resources and to set up, if possible, the best of the most optimal, i.e. the shortest real time period of reconciliation of this foreign savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22941	I thank my colleague Križanović. We still have a friend named Sopta on board. There's no one else. I hope we can conclude this debate with an active proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22942	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I would like to join your opinion that this House is in an exceptional way, unlike many when we have unseriously accessed some of the laws here, we have actually joined this law in a unanimous manner. The parliamentary commission also acted. And when she didn't vote for the principles of this law, she didn't vote for a reason, not to get the law passed, but to pass a quality law. And we really did our best, and I think we tried to help the Council of Ministers and all of us by opening up a public debate, making an effort, and one material containing very high-quality data was delivered to the Council of Ministers, and I think you've all got your colleagues on the bench. I think that this is enough data, sufficient contribution was made by the commission to truly the Council of Ministers to imagine over this law that has been delivered to us for one simple reason, according to the rapporteur in front of the Council of Ministers, and referring to OHR data 470,000 citizens have an old foreign currency savings savings of up to a thousand marks, which is calculated to say that 671 thousand old foreign currency savings. If we say so, we're just one more member of the household so more than a million people are interested in this law. So you're home to a greater public interest? What public interest is ahead of that? That is why I think and hope that today Parliament will return, we are hoping that you will return this report to the Commission and order both the Commission and the Council of Ministers to approach a more serious 55 of this, that I also agree with Mr President-in-Office that this law must be accompanied by a calculation. Maybe even in more ways when he's heading towards the commission. What I'm thinking is why I'm going to suggest now, as I hope you'll return, to the Minister when it comes to verification. I think there's a need to approach it maybe a little more seriously. We have a case that through this public debate we found out that, that certain banks attributed interest in '98, and that agencies are referred to as not doing the verification. We also have information to make payments during the war and after years. And they don't have agencies. And there may be a very big confusion and incorrect data when it comes to old foreign currency savings. So I suggest that you try to see the possibility that the books are checked where they are and are obtained, or by banks, and that the agencies that, the agencies that have worked with the certificates, that they deliver their data and pair with the state, because citizens have their own document that the state owes them, and that the state is in the interest that everything that has been paid to give, that it reduces by that amount, and I assume that the interest that is attributed, if we make a decision on some new interest, will be written off of those books that are already inscribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22943	I thank my colleague Sopta. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go with the proposal. I'm asking for your understanding. So today we have shown, through this serious debate that it is our goal to come to a good implementation of the state law which this problem solves, and in this sense here, the Kolegijum proposes that, after the debate has been carried out, to point out new moments and new details, and we do not accept this report from the Commission, but rather to look for a new report within 15 days that, in collaboration with the Council of Ministers, we would like to offer a better one, I would say, a fellow of the variant of this law, which could be supported in this House. Prepare to vote. We vote everything, guidelines, everything together. Everything that's been in the debate. _________(?) Then let it be said that we accept guidance. Of course, guidelines are an integral part of the debate. So get ready to vote. Vote now. Thank you, 27 for, 3 against, no one abstention. I find this conclusion accepted. I ask the Council of Ministers, the Secretary-General, the committee in charge, and all of us to spend 15 days productively looking for the best possible solution. I thank the Association of Old Foreign Savings. They had a chance to follow. I hope, I pray for a little patience that we will get the strength to come up with something that will satisfy their interests, and it will not endanger the stability of this country. Thank you very much. I thank 56 Minister Marić for being present and defending of course the views and text of the laws offered by the Council of Ministers. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (proposer: MP Mirsad Ćeman) On 3 February 2006, poslanik Mirsad Ćeman submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Excises in BiH with a request to be considered under Article 104. The request for procedure was adopted at the 74th session. The college has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent. You received a report from the committee in charge on March 13th. We also have a negative report here, so in this case, the Commission has not accepted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate on the Commission's report. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. So on the Commission's report which is negative. Vote now. For 10, versus 14, abstention 1. So no proposal was accepted, therefore the commission's report, so unfortunately the law fell yes. Wait a minute, in 10, versus 14, against the report. So the report's down, so it's accepted. We don't have any Federation, so we have no Federation from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22945	He doesn't have a total majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22946	No, no, wait a minute. Return the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22947	There's no need to repeat the vote. 14 is against the Commission's report. The Commission's report is negative... considers that it cannot be a negative report from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22948	And he's returning, setting a new deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22949	And it returns to the Commission and sets a new deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22950	Yeah, yeah, it's an interpretation of business. Please. Who's asking for a re-election. 57 Let us repeat the vote, everything must be. Okay. Prepare to vote. Vote now. What on earth is it, so learn what's on your agenda? So they asked for a repeat of the people. Will you, please? He asked the SDS Club to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 11, v. 18, 1 abstention. Therefore, since the Commission's report was rejected, a new deadline has been set, so the Commission to draw up a new report, that is, point 3 of the conclusion. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on an indirect taxation system with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget, MP Muhamed Moranjkić, Poslanik Moranjkić, submitted this draft law on 22 December 2005 with an emergency procedure application under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The 72nd session also did not adopt an emergency procedure application, which means that the bill is in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 2 February. The financial and budget committee's report came in on March 13th. The principles of the bill are not accepted. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Here you go, pal Moranjkić. Long live and healthy have been good-bye. Thank you very much. Please don't throw it away. You were pleased to be accepted. Have a good trip. Here you go, pal Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22952	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, just a few words. You know what this is about and you know the way of this law so far. Anything that could change when it comes to taxation, so I'm going to say the door to any discussion on the subject opens up a change in the part of the Law on the indirect taxation system where the administration of indirect taxation under that law is decisive and gives a final decision whether or not it can be discussed on this issue. And these strong laws that we've been running so far about changing this PDP, or the devil, I'm sorry, this VAT was just at the door of this law and they had to be returned. That's why I've submitted this amendment. 58 The absurd thing about what I saw in the report of the Commission is that of whom we need to change our opinion that he should sign his suicide and say, "No, I am to change me." I think that's absurd to me. They could have been different and other arguments, and I still stand at the view that this legislative change should allow this Parliament to carry out its task, its function, and that there is no one above it, and in this particular case it has and you see that we are always in such a captive state. That is why I also propose to Parliament, I propose to the Commission to understand my fair intention, to create a legal space, a condition in which we could and can act when it comes to legislative changes in this area. I wouldn't go any further. I mean, it's absurd to explain anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22953	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I'm closing the debate. My kolegica Milićević. We vote on the Commission's report to God.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22954	Mr. Moranjkić. You see, it was the wrong quote. We, as the committee responsible, have asked the Council of Ministers and the Management Board for an opinion. What we received from the Management Board we, Mr. Moranjkić apologized, was not at the session, so we had the position that the Council of Ministers supported these opinions both for Mr. Ćeman and for this law and for all the subsequent laws for which you have the reports. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22955	Thank you. Prepare to vote. So you have a negative report from the Commission. Vote now. - For 16, versus 15, no one abstention. So the report was accepted, the law unfortunately fell. Report upstairs, Law down, my Morankich. Here you go. And with my support. Point 11 is Ad.11. The draft law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Council of Ministers – delivered in 30.12.2005) on 30 December 2005, the Council of Ministers sent this proposal to Parliament with an urgent request under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The request for an emergency procedure has not been adopted, so the draft law is being considered in the ordinary procedure. The constitutional-legal committee delivered its opinion on 31 January this year. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. The committee's report was delivered on 13 March. And here is the Commission's financial and budget report negative. The Commission did not accept the principles of the draft law. I'm opening a debate. Ljiljana Milićević reporting again. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22956	... The law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. You know the situation that we've been working on for 15 days has given us two similar suggestions. They also said they accept the board's opinion which is negative for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22957	Prepare to vote. Vote now. So the report is negative. - In 9, versus 14, abstention 2. So back to the Commission to work. Thank you. We're going to 12 points on the agenda, that's Ad.12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – delivered on 26 January 2006) The proposal for this law was cancelled to Parliament in 26.1.2006. Just a little patience, please, and don't throw it away. This is about the full text of the law as in the previous point. There's only a difference in the title. It is also a negative report by the Commission for Finance and Budget. We're opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 16, v, 13. No one abstentioned. So this proposal was not accepted. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. The law has fallen. Moving to 13th point, Ad.13. Proposal for a Law amending the law on value added tax, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (Proposer of Parliament Muhamed Moranjkić) This is the third in a series of Laws amending the Tax Act on additional value. A kolega, Moranjkić, submitted the bill on 27 December 2005, with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. At the 72nd session of the House, he did not adopt a request for a bill and the proposal for a law is in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 2 February 2006. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted a report on 13 March. You have also received a report on this conclusion as before, the report is negative, so the principles of the law are not accepted. I'm opening a debate. I'm a colleague of Bešlagić. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22958	Now, since you see almost four, or five laws, it's about VAT and excise duties, and we agreed, I think we've asked the Council of Ministers for a second or third time to do a VAT analysis of the work we've done so far. I think this is unserious, and because of this once again, I want to repeat this opportunity, we would like to see this report and then really as Parliament we would like to discuss the change and change of VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22959	I thank you and agree with my colleague Bešlagić. Get ready, I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. So the report is negative. Vote now. - So for 17, versus, 15, no one's holding back. I therefore find that the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act with the Commission's Finance and Budget Report and Mr Moranjkić has not passed, so the Law has failed. We're going to the 14th point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22960	I'm sorry, he didn't have an entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22961	It doesn't matter. He didn't have a lot of it. Point 14. Please follow, I assume you're just as tired as I am, even though I'm a pretty good follower. Point 14. Ad.14. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments to Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006. As you have seen from the report, the Commission adopted all amendments adopted in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, except for Amendment I adopted in the House of Peoples, and unanimously agreed that this amendment was not valid or defined, which is why it was unanimously rejected in the Joint Commission. 61 I am putting the Joint Commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Twenty-four, five against, two abstentions. So I find that we have accepted the Joint Commission's report on budget alignment and I hereby conclude that the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in the same text in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and thus we have obtained the conditions to move to the 15th point of the agenda, that is, Ad.15. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 received a report from the Joint Commission on the adoption of the 2006 Budget Act. The Joint Commission agreed both homes to the text of the Budget Implementation Act by adopting three amendments. I'm putting the report under discussion. Who's calling? Nobody's answering. I'm closing up. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 28, 4 against, no one abstention. I therefore conclude that we have accepted the Joint Commission's report to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 16th agenda, that's Ad.16. The appointment of members of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio Television Service and the determination of the duration of their term of office, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 February of the current year of the Regulatory Agency for Communications as an authorised promoter, we received a ranking list of candidates for members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will remind you of the provisions of the Law on Public TV Service relating to the appointment of members of the Management Board. In Article 25(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Public TV Service Act is prescribed that the Management Board has four members, one in a row of each constituent nation and one in a row of others. Two members, two of those four members must have the Federation of BiH residence and two of the four members must have their residence in RS. In accordance with Article 26(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appoints members of the Management Board from the ranking list of candidates who entered a narrow election submitted by the Regulatory Agency. The same article says the Regulatory Agency is conducting a fair, open and transparent election procedure using standards and deadlines prescribed by the Law on Ministerial Designs, the appointments of the BiH Council of Ministers and other BiH appointments with the aim of electing more qualified candidates. 62 Furthermore, it is necessary that I remind you of the provisions of Article 36 of the same law which are relevant to this situation. In the opinion of the 2nd member, it is said, among other things -- the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will appoint all members of the first board of directors according to the provisions of this law. So everything, not just three. The position of the 4th member says – the term of office of members of the Management Board takes four years. However, when the Management Board is originally established members of the Management Board will be appointed as follows under a) one member at four years b) one member at three years c) one member every two years and d) one member elected from the order of members of the existing Public TV Service Board of BiH. This process introduces the principle of rotation among members of the administrative bodies that will ensure the continuity of work for BiH RT. The regulatory agency has submitted a list of six members with a proposal to appoint three members and determine the duration of their term of office. The candidates on the list lined up in alphabetical order and can therefore not be considered a ranking list. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the opening remarks I made on purpose, to invite all of us to work in accordance with the law, so that, since the candidates have the right, the legal right to appeal. We once formed a commission, we have not yet come out of this situation, so the Regulatory Agency must deliver a ranking list and Parliament must choose all four members. And I ask you, therefore, to return to the Regulatory Agency to do according to the law your job. That's my suggestion. I'd pray we don't have a debate. All candidates are good people, etc., but you know if someone says that and what's a particular problem is that we got an answer from the Regulatory Agency to say that all candidates are equal to them. It is at least unserious towards Parliament, according to the College, towards all of us, because if a ranking list is sought, it is known what it means. I'm opening a debate, if you'd like, but I thought we weren't leading. Here you go, pal Huskić. And that's the attitude and the College. I have to tell you what I said. It is the view of the College that it is a unique position of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22962	Did I get the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22963	You did get the word, but here's a fellow that
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22964	I understand, I support what you said, but here's how much we've got. I couldn't tell you anything out of this, believe me. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22965	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22966	I'm thinking and asking these girls here if these candidates were supposed to make some kind of work programme or some kind of vision or something. I'm personally very dissatisfied with the way the public television service works and I've been put in a position here just to vote yes or no. I don't know why, either. I think that since we're already doing this, people should be offering something to say how they see development, what they see, what their plans are so that we're based on it, not on these biographys of theirs. If it's not the condition of the competition, here's what we need to set up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22967	You're right. So we have the College's position to do this in accordance with the law. Here's counterpart Dunaj Mijatović, I don't think there's any need for us to derail. The attitude is to do it in accordance with the law. Prepare to vote. Wait a minute. Prepare to vote. Vote now. To conclude, yes. For 30, against 1.2 contained, I find that this conclusion is accepted and we move to the 17th point of the agenda. I apologize to my colleague Jahić. We had the conclusion of the College. You're right, I agree, but let's not delay the debate. We're going to the 17th item of the agenda, Ad.17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit – Project on Solid Waste Management between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development, (b) The Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on Development Loan - Project technical assistance in the area of social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development I would just like to inform you that the first contract has been verified by our respective commission, that the second one is not and that today we agree only on the first contract until we get the position of the committee responsible for the contract under b). 64 So we only plead, to ratify the contract at point a). I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I therefore conclude that with 30 votes for, 1st, 1st abstention, we have ratified the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit Project for solid waste management between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development and have adopted the position of our commission to postpone the consideration of the contract under regular number b). The Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Development Credit Technical Assistance Project in the area of social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we're doing today. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22968	Please, Chairman, I raise my hand, I sign up and you don't look and lock up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22969	I didn't see you alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22970	Let me at point b) ratify this contract have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22971	Under b).
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22972	Yes under b).
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22973	But b is not a ratification at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22974	It doesn't matter if I see what we did last time... Please, I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague Živković to explain to us, as the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, what this is all about. Last time, a few sessions ago, we had this same contract, we ratified it with the amount, I think it was, as far as I remember, 4 million and something else. Now you're looking for an addition to that. I'm interested in where these funds go and why they're intended, because here it's been said that these funds go for the development of health care. And that's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22975	Comrade Altiću, there is a demand for further consultations here to have this on 65.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22976	But I'm interested in what we voted last time because we were presented quite differently. Please, Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22977	We've completed ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22978	No, it doesn't matter to us when someone screwed up. I can only tell you that it's absolutely wrong, in my opinion, it's not right to put these ratifications last when we're all running away and packing things, which are very important things. What good contracts we have with our neighbours, foreign trade relations, so we've brought into a situation and deficits and billions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22979	I agree with everyone, but
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22980	I'm asking my colleague Živković to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22981	But here. My colleague Živković has needs. Look, since it's the Commission's conclusion that we don't have ratification. We ratified under a). If the commission is to sit down when it has a position, it will have both Parliament and counterpart Altić. Don't turn this into a question for each other now. So, I beg you, therefore, fellow Altić and you, so we have ratified and concluded the point. And you can later if there are misunderstandings about this contract sitting both within the commission and outside the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22982	One single sentence for the same reason that Mr. Altić is asking me to plead on this agreement, I have asked to be competent institutions, and these are entity health ministers in connection with this statement so that the commission can give its consent to this ratification. I'm calling on a respected fellow Altić if he wants to come to the committee, when we talk to them to discuss it with us. That was the only reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-23-0.u22983	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted the agenda. Thank you for your patience. We'll have a new session very soon. You'll be informed in time. Thank you for your constructive work. The session was over at 4:00.
