ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22984	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 77th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present representatives and distinguished guests. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. As usual, our regular guests, as well as representatives of international organisations who follow the work of the House, were invited to attend this session. As you know at the session, the presidents and members of the Bureau, the chairmans and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, the OSC, the EU, the Council of Europe, the Monitoring Mission, as well as representatives of delegations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who express their work to monitor the work of our home, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. According to the Service report, we have 28 present representatives, 18 from the Federation and 10 from Republika Srpska. That means we have a quorum and we can make a full decision. The absence of today's session was justified by Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Tihomir Gligorić, Mr Ivo Lozančić, Mr Sead Avdić, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, who are at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly Council of Europe and Mr Jozo Križanović, Mr Ibrahim Đedović and Mr Nenad Mišić. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the debate on the agenda proposal, I would like to thank the President of this House again publicly, Mr. Nikola Špirić, on behalf of all of you, for what he has done at the head of this house, and I hope that as the College together and Mr. Džaferović and Špirić, we will continue to lead this House to the elections in the way that the constitutional role requires him. I also want to inform you that we had a session of the House Colleges this morning, as well as a College in an extended composition. We have come to the College to reshape the agenda item, i.e. redistribution of the agenda points, so that we have classified as the third item – Proposal for a law on verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings, in the first reading, because today the House of Nations which has this point on its agenda and how we are bound by the deadlines of the Constitutional Court of 17 April that we need to finalise this process, I think it is good that we have this at the very beginning so that we can coordinate this issue with the House of Nations. 2 And we also included new two points on the establishment of investigative committees at the Porcelain College. Meaning - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the degree of pollution of the hydro and eco-system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to chemical matter, Proposer Dr. Živković and - Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the foreign savings of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens laid down on bank accounts until 31.3.1992, Mr Izet Hadžić's proposal. I will now open a debate on the agenda and inform you that we are on the fourth item of the agenda. This is a proposal for a vote on non-confidentiality of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether there is a request from the promoter to withdraw this item from the agenda to enable it to mean in full terms the debate on this issue of this House and there was no consensus in the Extended College because there would have to be a consensus for this agenda point, but I think there is a lot of reason to accept this proposal, but it is up to this House to decide. I'm opening a debate on the agenda now. Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Before I give my word to Dr. Kunić, I will ask both MPs and distinguished guests and members of the Council of Ministers to turn off their cell phones, which is one conclusion that exists earlier that we stick to whoever wants to phone can come out and phone and here to ensure the conditions for mutual respect and listening during the debate and during the conclusions. Here you go. I Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22985	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you are aware that the City Club has proposed a agenda item related to the vote of the Council of Ministers' mistrust. On behalf of that club, I have suggested that this point be taken down at an extended college, given that there is a House of Representatives missing as far as I think about six non-representatives who are justly absent, so they are at the Council of Europe meeting. In that sense, I think there's a reasonable reason not to discuss that agenda point. I don't think it would be right, because we don't have a sitting or a proposing, or an initiator of this agenda point, and in some ways it raises doubts about the proposing's intention to just propose this item of the agenda when these MPs are not present. To avoid this situation, to avoid these doubts, I suggest that this item of the agenda be removed from today's session and discussed at one of the next sessions. The arguments had passed the deadline, the deadline had passed before, so the session was not called, so that's no reason not to take this point off the agenda. In that sense, I think, I ask the representatives to accept this initiative and to remove this point from the agenda, not prejudicing the outcome. I'm about to assume what the outcome will be, but it would be correct to postpone this. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22986	Thank you very much. I Kunić. The word was answered by Dr. Nikola Špirić, deputy, second vice-president, followed by Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22987	Sir, Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I support the idea and I was also an advocate at our College at the Enlarged College to remove this item of the agenda today for reasons that the promoter is not in full composition even though we could formally discuss it legally, but why this was not earlier because the Council of Ministers was business within 30 days under the obligation to declare the proposal's initiative. Unfortunately, to this day, we have no written material or Council of Ministers' notices whether they had it at their session, what the Council of Ministers' position is. Therefore, I ask the representatives to respect the proposal of the Proposer so that we do not have a debate today. Two important reasons why we can debate today and repeat the debate again in seven days, rather than get a report from the Council of Ministers that we have a proposing and that we have one mutual discussion based on an objective analysis that will not be a matter of politics but a truly crucial debate. That's why I support what Prof. Kunić and what the proposer was looking for, of course. And that is why I am asking you fellow MPs to remove any suspicion that this is about some unpredictive arrangements to accept today's proposal initiative and to postpone this debate, because nothing will happen if we postpone it in 15 days or in a month it is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22988	Thank you very much. Mr. Elvir Jahić. Here you go, after him, Mr. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22989	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'd just like to say that we are actually entering a period of intensive work of our home and Parliament at all. In addition, we should have, probably the next session of our home will be on the agenda of constitutional reform, so one very complex political and complex and every other issue and I don't know how appropriate it is to discuss whether we are also discussing the Council of Ministers' trust. On the one hand. On the other hand, we can ask the question, first of all, whether the domestic parliament is in some things, especially whether it should have been a priority from others. I came here yesterday from Strasbourg, so it can be present and come, there is no need for a full parliamentary session to be held in Strasbourg, on the one hand. On the other hand, we can ask a question if there are no six MPs here today, it seems to me that we have more important points today than the Council of Ministers, a check by the Council of Ministers. I don't know the third point – Proposal for a law on the verification of the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings in me is much more important for the citizens of 4 of this country than trust, the trust of the Council of Ministers. So we should also take off at that point in the agenda, because they're not all MPs. So I think we should work, here are the deadlines. You've made your own demands. There are no restrictions on the procedure. So I'm fully convinced that when we put this on the agenda, the College didn't have any bad intentions, so he wanted to put it on the agenda today. I suggest that we make a statement today on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22990	Thank you very much, Mr. Jahić. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22991	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I also congratulate you on your presidency and I hope that you will succeed, in fact I am sure that you will, in fact, do this job successfully. As far as this issue is concerned, since it is the position of the SDS Proposer, it will support the position of the Proposer. It's a practical delay so we accept that this point is delayed although of course we find the attitude we have as the club will be at the next session as well as today exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22992	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go. Well, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22993	I can also say on behalf of the Croatian People's Club of Representatives that we support this proposal, but I don't see why people lift up around this dust, because we have delayed some agenda points on the proposal so far. Even if we got to them, not just in the agenda debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22994	I thank Mr. Zorić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22995	Well, obviously, there's been a preliminary statement on the final decision-making process, so here's what I'm going to say is the position of the Representatives' Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll support keeping this on the agenda for 2-3 reasons. So it's said here that there are no formal procedural disturbances. We haven't received a statement from the government, but it doesn't commit, it can even help some people to even commit to this issue. It's been said that nothing will happen in the last 10 or 15 days, so if nothing happens to us today, better today than tomorrow. But I only want to say two words when it comes to the absence of travel. I really welcome, although a little late, but the beginning of a process where people decide to attend a session without giving up travel that is not necessary and mandatory. So it's a practice that's supposed to be all this time. We delayed parlament so that someone would go 5 somewhere, etc. without any idea why, was it necessary, etc. etc. But here's the thing that's already late. Here's to the conclusion, so we'll support discussing this today, because there are people who can explain this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22996	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word's got to be dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22997	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, unlike some MPs, I think the point of this vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers is a very important point. And that he even deserves, if he needs a special session of this House. And since we have already violated the Rules of Procedure in Article 117, that no later than 30 days from the date of delivery to the Council of Ministers should be convened, which was 7 March 2006, there is the possibility that the College should consider calling a special session with one item of the agenda within a certain period of time, which is a vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers. This would otherwise lead to a very serious agenda point, and would also respect the proposal of the Advocacy Club that launched this initiative. So I ask you to put this motion on the table, and that is to schedule a special session of this Parliament, especially what next time we have a session will be constitutional changes and I don't think that two important points of the agenda can be found together in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u22998	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing the debate. So here we have two suggestions. One who filed on behalf of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Kunić has another proposal for a conclusion which, I do not have it in writing yet, was submitted by Miodrag Živković, Milorad, I apologize. So first we declare the proposal submitted by Mr. Kunić. So who on behalf of the promoter asked to withdraw this point from today's session of the agenda and postpone the debate on this issue, which corresponds to me with what Mr Živković has proposed. The promoter did not say how and how the debate would be organised. So I think we can absorb it in that proposal, and on the College to determine how it's going to go. So, I ask the MPs to make a statement about the request to withdraw this from the agenda session from today and postpone for the next session. Please vote now. - So there were no demands for further changes to the agenda. The debate was conducted only on the proposal that this item of the agenda should be withdrawn so that I think I can declare the agenda for today's 77th session of the House of Representatives and it will have the next 6 agenda 1. Journal of the 76th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a verification and settlement law based on an old foreign exchange account, first reading, 4. Proposal for a vote on mistrust of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. Proposal for an amendment to the Law on Customs Tariffs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 104, is required by MP Nikola Špirić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Customs Tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (second reading) – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 10. Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act (Proposer Muhamed Moranjkić), 11. Proposal for a decision to set up a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period 01.07. to 31.12. 2005, 13. Appointment of members of the Commission for the selection of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor, 14. A proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the degree of pollution of hydro and ecosystems in Bosnia and Herzegovina to chemical matter, 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative committee establishing the foreign savings of Bosnia and Herzegovina's construction laid down on bank accounts until 31.3.1992, 16. Giving consent to ratification: (a) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the arrangement of mutual property legal relations and under (b) the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Development Credit Treaty – The Social Security Technical Assistance Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association We move to work on the established agenda. I'd like to ask the Honorable Ministers for College of Representatives so we can work. 7 Ad.1. Record of the 76th House Session You've got a record of the 4th of this month. It's invested in your boxes. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the MPs to come forward with a record from the 76th session of the House. Vote now. I agree that we have unanimously adopted the minutes from the 76th session of the House and are moving to the 2nd item of the agenda. Ad.2. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23001	Thank you, Mr. President. This deserves to be listened carefully, and the comments will then be completely extravagant. The question has been answered. How long has it been since the investigation of the late Prime Minister of the Federal Ministry of Interior, Mr. Joza Leotar, and when can we expect to bring the perpetrators of this crime before the institutions of justice? The issue was addressed to the Federal Ministry of Security and the Federal Ministry. The Federation Ministry of Security has not yet responded, and the Ministry of Security has informed me that they have requested from the chief prosecutor, Mr. Šljivar's cantonal prosecutor, and that he has given them the following answer. We would like to inform you that the Prosecutor's Office, together with the authorities of the Federation of BiH's MUP, is taking certain steps to enlighten the murder of Joza Leotar, so this is not about the investigation, as stated in the memo, but about the investigative actions, but so far there is no positive movement, in terms of the discovery of the perpetrator or perpetrator of the crime, the work continues. After seven years of tragic events and seven years of hard work, the pre-examinations continue. So that I don't hear from you later, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you a new parliamentary question. This time, I'd like to ask you directly to shorten the way and procedure of the prosecutor, Mr. Branko Šljivar, so I'd like to ask him. Is there a question of responsibility, that is, a criminal application for false testimony in the process of the late Joz Leotar, and is the question of the responsibility of those who paid the reward for this false testimony raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23002	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrić. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23003	I want to say that I got an answer to the question of military points under Annex 5 of the Agreement, that all these pensioners who received 50% pensions get 100%, the answer is correct, but the final conclusion is that we're going to have the same case, it seems to me, as we have with the issue of foreign savings, because they say it's an entity thing and I don't think this is going to be possible to realise and, if it's already been time to realize it. I don't know who or how to direct this question to get an answer when the decision will apply under the Military Pensions Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23004	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. We can still make comments. No more comments. Report for new questions. Mr. Mladen Potočnik first applied, so Mrs. Majkić, then Momčilo Novaković, and Selim Bešlagić as I see it, so Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23005	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and present guests, I address with a parliamentary question from the College of Parliament. In what phase is my amendment to the Constitution of BiH, in the way of adopting a new constitution, invested in the parliamentary procedure of 19.12.2005? I'm asking you this seriously, because you don't do things by the book. Do as you imagine. You take a review of the change of the amendment, which is three days old, and you don't take it into procedure and you reject it in a three-month procedure. It's my right and I'm using it right now, and that's why I'm asking you to answer this question as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23006	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. I suggest that the College prepare a written report on this matter of yours on procedures and deliver it to the representatives and to you by the next session. The next is Mrs. Majkić, and let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23007	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that this item of the agenda has become long-deplaced, given that this number of parliamentary issues remain unresponsive. Rare are the answers that MPs receive, and therefore, among other things, it speaks to the Council of Ministers' position towards this high house, but also speaks of the responsibility of the College for the State as it is. I don't want to ask any more questions new, but I want to exercise my right, so I demand and ask that my question be answered at the 77th session of the House of Representatives, addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I am pleased that the minister is here, we do not have a common opportunity to welcome him in this house and because I did not get an answer, I ask that the Council of Ministers, no longer to refer to the Ministry of Foreign Trade, but to ask the Council of Ministers to respond to me, that due to the difficult situation which today is in BiH's farm production, as well as to the general consensus at the level of all relevant BiH institutions, therefore, the Council of Ministers, Parliamentary Assembly, entity ministries, agriculture, chambers, primary producers, to enable 9 more intensive and progressive development of primary production in BiH. Please answer the next question. ‘When will the quantity contingents of free imports be introduced, and the duties and advances for waste and tow materials abolished, i.e.: junad tov, heading 0102904900, heifer-produced heading 0102101000 and meat-stained breeds of pig-sads of heading 0103919000 be introduced? I deeply believe I will finally get an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23008	I thank Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Novaković has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23009	Dear colleagues, the Bosnian Herzegovina public has witnessed a general crisis these days because of the inability to deploy funds from a common account or a single account to entities, or cantons, or further to municipalities. This way has been questioned by the functioning of all BiH institutions, except BiH-level institutions. As a result, this is the result of an irresponsible relationship between the Board of Direct Taxation with all BiH citizens, and yet as a result, it can have a number of other issues, as a question of what is now with the obligations that municipalities have on loans, who will bear interest because these commitments have not been carried out in due time, who will bear the costs of citizens' interest, which again have salaries, which are on their budgets, etc., and have not met their commitments to banks and so on. My question in that sense is. Why did the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Direct Taxation Board annul his decision on the allocation coefficients for the pooled funds in the joint account, which increased the funds to the Federation by 0.8 to the burden of RS 0.5 and Brcko District 0.3%? Of course, we all know or think we know why it is, but I think his answer will confirm, at least you should confirm all the irresponsibility of him personally, primarily personally for the existing state. Second question. Why has the Council of Ministers not debated the House of Representatives' initiative to vote non-confidentially chaired by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board of Mr Dixon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23010	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Let the Bospodin Sipović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23011	On the parliamentary question I asked at the 65th session of this house, held on 16.9.2005 in connection with the Animal Protection Act. I received a reply in 13.1.2006 that the working group, formed by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations, prepared a draft of the law and worked on its work so that it could be completed and released in the process by the end of February 2006. Until today 13 April 2006, we have not received this proposal, so I ask the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for information on what is going on with this bill and when will it be addressed by the Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliament? I'm asking this question because, at least in Tuzla Canton, we had one, let's say, sheep guessing process, unfortunately our farmers never got the answer, and I think this law would just rule out that it's happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23012	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Sipović, and let Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23013	Mr. Chairman, I also join the congratulations on my chosen function. I hope you will successfully complete it, perform it while your term of office is over. Dear colleagues, honourable fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, representatives of international institutions and media representatives, I welcome you very much. Mr. Chairman, I am joining my distinguished colleague Majkić's findings, and we are really coming to the point of this agenda of parliamentary issues and initiatives, and I will not continue until you allow me to do so. Indeed, the chairperson and the College, I ask you, to defend the dignity of this House and our constitutional right that MPs, indeed, ask questions, is there any point in asking more questions by MPs and giving us certain initiatives? For what reason, because at the 72nd session, I asked the resolution ministry, the BiH Ministry of Justice, Resoring Minister Kovač Slobodan. What about the draft law procedure, that is, the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Law on Lawyerry? I have information, representatives of the international community, I beg you, I was the head of the 30 delegation in London and highly-ranked such institutions respected the law and we here in BiH to approach Europe and European standards, and we are, indeed, coming into a situation where we cannot fundamentally choose human rights. I speak for the 800 lawyers of the Federation of BiH. I'm asking a serious question, please, I won't ask the Secretary of Human Rights anymore, I'm going to ask for his responsibility for the indifference here, here I'm using the presence of Mr. Keba's Human Rights Minister. The current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's and the Federation of BiH's lawyers is discriminatory compared to...the situation with the RS lawyer. Amendment to federal law, we've been put in a situation that it's discriminatory law. Provisions of the European Convention have been violated, and the BiH Constitutional Court has unfortunately failed to respect the appeal. We're depressed by the relationship of the situation. That, resolutely, the Justice Ministry, the Council of Ministers, when it travels to Europe, does not end the reform of the judiciary, and one of the segments of the judiciary reform is the position of the lawyer and in a unique way, harmonised at BiH level. We appreciate the efforts of the RS and colleagues in the RS lawyers and I give them all the recognitions because they have voted in their RS entity to have a dignified position. We don't, and it's legal tariff. Third, this decision in which the lawyer is located has injured a series of provisions of the European Convention and standards in Europe. We have the support of the European Union of lawyers and we will address the European Union of lawyers and the European Parliament in Strasbourg, so that this Parliament and this council of ministers, as a task, do nothing to ensure that both the law as an important segment is not included in the segments of human rights equality. 11 I ask the question, I now ask the Secretary-General, a question from the Council of Ministers completely and resolutely, that until the next session, in writing, he will explain what is wrong with this law and in what procedure is it? I have information that the OSCE, or OHR, has given certain suggestions on these issues. Because I'm saying in a tariff like this that's now in force are the citizens who are prosecutors. They cannot exercise their rights and collect their claims in litigation. The advokatura did according to OHR and OSCE's suggestions, we're a tariff on official duty, we cut it by 50%, we followed OHR's suggestions, and the rest is surprising that there's no such law anywhere in Europe, here, I'll tell you right now, and we'll explain it. We ask the Council of Ministers, this time and these two resolute ministries to inform me as a representative, otherwise, that I will exercise my constitutional right to propose a parliamentary procedure for. Second question. When we discussed here the transparency of spending money and the budget users. The audit report, please, I, as an agent, also, ask a very clear question on the initiative of certain colleagues. That the Court of BiH gives me information as far as the mandate is concerned, that is, from the beginning of its constitution to today, how much has been suffered from the budget of the Court of Marks for the appointment of defenders under official duty? And, all by age, until the term of office of the former President of the Court and of the current President of the Court. And to deliver to me individually how many individual lawyers have charged by official duty? That's another question. Thirdly, I would like to say, thank you to the Minister of Civil Affairs, which has respected my hospitality, so the Law is in the procedure of sports and, please, just report to what stage, there is a public debate about it, until the next session, some of the next sessions to be delivered. I would have had a lot of initiatives and questions and suggestions, but the respected chairman and chair of the College, given that inflation of such suggestions and initiatives, and that the answers do not refer to parliamentary issues in an adequate manner, there is nowhere in Europe, and also in the world that the MP and this home are not respected. I will try to endure these questions, and next time, I will also provide the Service with every explanation so as not to take away a lot of words. An explanation in the written text and the Council of Ministers of Reasons, which is why I am asking a very serious question on this. What I've had for today, and next time I'll be writing in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23014	I've heard everything. You listen to me. Issues to deliver immediately in writing. I ask the MPs to comment to the Council of Ministers on the occasion of point 4. Don't use every parliamentary question, so let's talk all the time. Make a statement you have a agenda point, say what you think. Let's be efficient and make a contribution to efficiency. You asked three questions. I think that's enough for today's session. Deliver in writing, if you have any more questions, here, I'll give you the word again, but there are questions on the agenda. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23015	Mr. Chairman, I congratulated you on this function. If I am representing you and the College, you are ignoring it, or you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23016	What am I, please, ignoring you? What have I been deaf to? I have not disobeyed anything, I have patiently listened to you, we are on parliamentary matters. If you have any more questions, feel free to ask, respect and deliver questions in writing, I just said that and nothing more. I wasn't deaf at all. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23017	Mr. Chairman, I as an agent, using my constitutional right, myself, since this session is being followed publicly, you cannot take away my right to a business, constitutional right, to inform me of the public...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23018	Here, here, say everything you think. Here, I apologize to you for interrupting. If you don't respect the chairman, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23019	Chairman, please don't, I respect you, don't replace my thesis, and if you want to take away my right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23020	Well, I didn't take your right, so you can't say that. Well, we're all witnesses.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23021	I will deliver in a broader form a written explanation, but you cannot forbid me to explain in oral form my proposals, initiatives and seek certain responsibilities. I ask you, yes, Mr. Chairman, that you comment with your first deputy that it doesn't make sense, it's really unprincipled.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23022	You say whatever you want, I'll listen to you as chairman. I don't want to comment. Say everything you think. Every comment I make, you've misread it. I'll avoid any kind of comment. Say, really to the chairman, I'm letting the public, and to the ministers, and once we correct each other's relations, say, I'm finishing my comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23023	In the end, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to respect the dignity of the MPs. Me personally, and for others, I will surely fight and you will not take away my constitutional right. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23024	I can't think of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23025	I congratulated you, congratulated you, and please don't, but you just irritate me to extend this agony, and you're responsible for how the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministers treats our parliamentary issues. I'm asking you, can you influence as a College to get us four or five sessions so I don't get an answer? So you're carrying part of the responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23026	Mr. Izet Hadžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23027	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, my question concerns activities in the Ministry of Communications and the Council of Ministers regarding the Adriatic-Ionian Highway. So I think the Adriatic-Ionian Highway is a very important infrastructure facility, especially for BiH. Since this highway was well needed to pass through BiH in earlier plans, I am interested in being represented, led by activities related to this facility and whether it has any position, that, possibly, the Communications Commission... would ask for a debate, that BiH should take a significant contribution to the inclusion of this infrastructure facility, because I believe it is right behind Corridor 5c for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23028	I'd like to thank the representative. No more reports. I'm closing this agenda point and we're moving to agenda three. Ad.3. Proposal for a law on the verification of settlement of liabilities based on an old foreign exchange account in the first reading I will remind you all that at the 76th session, we had on the agenda a report from the Commission on finance and budget with the proposal for this law and that this report was negative. Following the debate, the House obliged the Commission, within 15 days, to reconsider the Bill proposal, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers and Amendments, taking into account the debate and guidelines submitted by the Croatian People's Club of Representatives and adopted by the House, and to try to reach the best possible text of this law. The Commission has acted upon the conclusion of this House. The Commission's Finance and Budget Report came to you on 10th of this month. The Commission adopted 13 amendments, which became an integral part of the law. In the plenary phase of the new amendment, representatives proposed: Mr Nikola Špirić 11 amendments, Mr Filip Andrić 4 amendments and Mrs Ruža Sopta 3 amendments, Mr Momčilo Novaković 3 amendments, Ms Ljiljana Milićević 4 amendments, calling for Article 94(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House who wish to defend again, and Momčilo Novaković, one amendment calling for Article 94(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House, which challenges Amendment II of the Finance and Budget Commission. 14 Also, in order to facilitate your insight and vote, the Home Service has prepared a review of the amendments in order to the articles to which they have been tabled. Here today we have representatives of several associations, which have been dealing with this issue for many years, and I welcome them all from the heart. I thank you for your presence, and I hope that today they will make sure that this home has the strength to discuss their legitimate demands in quality. I am now having a debate on this issue. And, even before I open the debate, I'm going to add a few more notes, they're of a business nature. I hope you are familiar with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which treat these questions on the clarification of certain amendments, and I am asking you today for a substantive and constructive debate on this matter, to try, indeed, this one issue, which has been burdening the public for many years and a significant number of Bosnianhercegovina populations, to try to come to a law that will be realistic, which will not only be a reform and that in some way in the real possibilities of this country will give a sadification to these people. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Minister Ljerka Marić picked up the words, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23030	And here I will warmly welcome you to the chairman and chairman, the representatives of course and our savings, who have been very focused on what is going on and we will see what we can do today. Mr. Chairman of the House has very concisely stated the latest developments concerning this law. So, I'm not going back to history, because there's no need, but after Dom took the guidelines, we got a new chance to give the law life. Within the framework of these guidelines, the task force, consisting of entities, representatives of the entity finance ministries, Brcko District, the finance ministry and the BiH Treasury, sat down and made... these situations, the meeting and made one report, which the Council of Ministers offered for adoption. Regarding the principles on which the law rests and related to guidelines, we must say again what the principles of the law are. The law speaks of savings, the return of old foreign currency savings from banks based in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The two amendments clarified the issue of old savings, i.e. the holders of all accounts in the banks, which were based in BiH and one article, also again in the amendments clarified the situation concerning the issue of these two banks, which are not covered by this law, i.e. by the state's position to resolve the issue after the withdrawal of the Ljubljana Bank and Invest Bank and I think that this is a significant improvement in the law, because it is now very precise to explain what is now being done here in this law. After we have said that the principle of verifying is to bring all holders, all accounts, into line with the principle of cumulative, means, if one man had accounts of foreign exchange accounts opened in several banks, after all the processes, which were conducted in the framework of privatisation, which is different from the territory of BiH, to carry out the balance of books and all other open accounts, they have sent agreements on extradition... means through this verification, which is left as a principle in the law, the exact state of each individual account holder will be carried out on the basis of foreign savings and on this basis will be paid. The principle which was linked to the state level, that the state should pass this framework law, linked to the opening of the account holder's register in the Central Bank, bound to be carried out through the agencies, which were inherited by the payment office. 15 The issue of return in bonds was left in this law. What matters is what we split up about is the matter of the period of return of funds and related to the work of this task force, after the calculation, which was added to the material for the Council of Ministers and for the work of the Commission, entities jointly with the State Ministry of Finance, have jointly calculated. The obligation of this state, which we have from now on until 2031, relating to external debt, because we have in the Priško Club a 40-year payment, related to new borrowings, related to current debt management and total internal debt, in which the assessment and payment of the claim-holders is carried out on the basis of war damage. So, those obligations that this state has made through entity laws, which are now under discussion for the period of payment, etc., but they must always keep in mind, because this law will have a very fast time, we also need to have equal access to holders of old foreign currency savings, but also to people who seek compensation for war damage. When all of this is taken into account, then this task force, to keep the country's fiscal situation sustainable, based on macroeconomic indicators, and then the assessment of the growth of the jedi-pi, we estimate that there should be a 5.5% growth from other indicators, the working group said next. In order to make it possible to reduce the deadline to 13 years. Which doesn't mean 13 years. So, this will depend on it, when you take the payment plan, after the balance on the accounts, the cumulative statement for the individual savings, and after paying up to 100 marks this year, 100 marks for each savings site, the next 1000 marks, what remains, of course, the worst situation for the savings would be an annual... We will do everything in this calculation, i.e. in presenting after the payment plan to reduce the payment to a half-yearly payment, because that means, however, much faster access to money, although it is up to 13 years possible 26 annuities, with interest that is evenly meant bonds of 2.5%. The period since the end of '91. the years until the start of the bond issue are not covered by interest. So there are several models. The interest was attributed at the end of '91. For years, the balances were carried out. We're perhaps going to define ourselves around, we've defined ourselves around one amendment, which was invested by one of the MPs, who asked for a 0.5% interest account over all the years until the start of the bond payment. That 0.5% on this stratified amount of savings from... debt, means an extra 100 million for interest and means that the payment deadline is moving from 15 to 17 years. So, when we sat down together and looked at it and, of course, together with the Council of Ministers, it would be good to support the principles, which I have proposed, and especially this first new text, which was adopted on the Commission and, of course, to understand this, therefore, improvement in terms of implementation of deadlines, that the payment in bonds is up to 13 years, with 2.5% interest and because it is, however, safer, because the issue of inflation in the country... something higher, and inflation can be lower in the year in which it is calculated, and here we think that it has been guaranteed 2.5% interest on bonds. In addition, through a registrar at the Central Bank, through the payment through bank accounts, business banks, we believe that there will be a recovery of the capital market, i.e. bonds, in a way that the discount bonds will be redeemed earlier. It is now another new way to reach the funds, of course, with a smaller amount, and as soon as possible. All together when you look at it, you mean, the work of this house, i.e. These commissions, which were very persistent and very concise, on the principles, however, on which they were proposed in law, with, of course, the decision of the Commission on Human Rights, which gave this law and these principles a certificate, so when we let this law go into life, the Human Rights Commission said, these are the 16 principles. They said up to 15 years, they believe that sustainability is possible... both external and internal debt. This improvement is not an improvement that is now said to be, indeed, more favourable, related to the country's judi-pei growth, related to the ability to pay off commitments by the country. You know that the funds, I've told you before that we have planned the budget for this year to pay for 100 marks, and that the budgets are disbursed, however, in part of the repayment of some residual pension and disability liabilities and some other military obligations, etc. And make it happen really... whenever those 1,000 marks happen to the account holders. These are some principles on which the law included little improvement, and indeed this law does not include saving account holders for banks that did not have a head office in BiH. This is a global story, along with these amendments, which were adopted by the Council of Ministers and the Commission, which was subsequently declared and presented in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23031	I thank Minister Marić. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Filip Andrić and Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23032	Mr. President, I will first conclude, the fact that this time our fellow representatives abroad will accept the historical character, because, you see, people are on their way, so unlike the negative now we have a positive report on principles, not reducing the positive things that have been done around this law, which, from the occasion of the minister, tried to present here, those in truth are shifts, which is that it is clearly defined that BiH is responsible together with its entities for the reconciliation of the old foreign currency savings, it is clearly understood from which funds it will return. However, I have the impression that in the debate on principles it could have been, that we had a little more time and before that, perhaps in this way we talked about, that there could have been a lot more to be fixed, especially when it comes to this chapter on verification, the chapter on payment. With that, my amendments that have not been accepted, I have restored them, they also concern the principles. I'm afraid that if we stand on the principle of taking people's rights on interest from 31.12.1991, so until the law comes into force that we're going to be caught up in lawsuits from account owners and savings books and we're going to be in one very awkward situation again, and in my opinion, I'm the one who suggested 0.5%, I couldn't help but suggest that for one state of those 100 million, how much they calculated is so much balance that they couldn't do it, and people, let's not forget to wait 15 years for that money, which I can't get to. Many, unfortunately, are hungry for all the money they have there. Therefore, I think it would be good if we later discussed amendments to respect this amendment, however, and to accept this symbolic interest rate, and in this way we would reject any possibility of a lawsuit, rather than being built there in articles that define the verification that it is being saved, which appears with a request to return its savings, that it must sign a statement there, disowning any claim by the State on that basis. I think it is unnecessary for us to have a common goal of reaching a quality solution to mutual satisfaction and solutions, which are realistic. 17 On the other hand, when we talk about verification. It seems to me that a little more account could have been taken of a much better and better quality solutions, and that in this way, as it is predicted that each saving party must carry out the procedure as expended here, and given that they are mostly people of a third age, they are exposed to this kind of bureaucratic procedure, in my opinion, so that it can be said inhumanely. I therefore proposed that this chapter from Article 5 to 20 which defines the area of verification be deleted and that, within the next 30 days, the Council of Ministers, together with the Commission and others, should be suspected in the discussions from the last session of the Commission, of having better solutions, of trying to find simpler, more efficient solutions, which levelling and determining the factual situation, taking into account all the differences that have arisen since '91. To this day and, last chapter, regarding bonds and deadlines. The truth is we've stood at the point of view whether it's up to 10 years, considering these 15 waiting for people up to 25 years to be out of their minds and that the proposal is and, therefore, we've asked that the deadline could be about 10 years, given the facts that they've been taking into account the obligations of the state, on all other grounds, but in view of the other possibilities, we haven't defined what all sources can be involved here. Here, we're witnessing, I don't know a day or two ago, the director of the Implicit Taxation Department was presenting data on the effects of VAT, so he mentioned really the figures there, which give us the right to set much shorter deadlines. Therefore, I think that an elegant solution would be to accept my amendment III where it would define such a way, and to define the new article that in the next 30 days, we will fully regulate this chapter by a new law, which would be called the law on remuneration, which would include both resources and methods of return, procedures and security mechanisms, and I think that would be an acceptable solution, then we would have a law, then they would respect the deadline of the Constitutional Court, which is set for us, and would give themselves once again to improve the already existing proposed solutions. Although I'm saying, I don't want to reduce the shifts we've made through this procedure since the public debate to the last session of the Commission. Please understand this debate about amendments in the context of the debate on principles, because in truth, the amendments concern the principles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23033	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Sopta. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23034	I thank Mr President, I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Commission, since I have chaired the last two sessions, in fact one in two parts of the Commission's session, and to mention the specificities of this law, for colleagues who have not been engaged in the meantime. This is the law by which people under one basic right, it's the right to property they've been looking for the state to determine the way they've been returned and the rights to their property for many years. The debate took place on entities. The Constitutional Court ruling, which is the jurisdiction of this Parliament, and you know that we in 31.12.2005, received this law in the procedure and we respected the Council of Ministers' request to follow Article 104 hastily put it in the procedure, but considering that, if it deserved a particular attention, you know that we had a public debate, I would like to shorten what we did until the last session. As the last report was negative and returned to the Commission's guidelines, the Commission tried to do it quickly again, but without losing anything to consistency and finding the right 18 tasks, we were 23.3. that was referred to you again for reviewing the report, we set up a meeting with the working group 4.4, which means with, we asked for a meeting to come to us as chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers. The minister was at that meeting. We asked for an indication of the amendments, which were submitted in the meantime to other guidelines. We scheduled a session for 7.4. because we did not get a statement then for 7.4. and the session, in fact after the working group meeting, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, organised a meeting and held consultations with the representatives of the entity ministers, because we know that this remains in the obligation to return entities and the Brcko District and at which the meeting was attended by a representative... of the vault, it was also a working group, which did the bill. This... resulted in the statements submitted on the proposed guidelines and, meanwhile, amendments were submitted, so we asked the Council of Ministers to come out with some calculations. For the first time, we received some calculations, not some, but calculations, and what these are obligations under the old foreign exchange savings with the planned payments, although they had in the amendments and obligations with the expected payments that could be coupled. At the 49th session, it means 7.4. The Commission has debated the law and given the date that has been opened to us, means 17.4. that deadline for this Parliament to pass the Law has been voted on by the principles. However, during the debate, it was found that the Council of Ministers, we had received the answers and opinions of the Minister-General, but we are not the Council of Ministers and we have interrupted the session and delivered the amendments together with the guidelines again, insisting that the Council of Ministers declare them. That is why we asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to schedule an extraordinary session in order to hold at 10 o'clock in order for us to schedule the Commission at 12 o'clock to meet all these deadlines, to leave the possibility of 48 hours of submitting amendments to defend ourselves before the dom, and in this way we managed to satisfy the entire form, means that we get the Council of Ministers' position and that people can react and remain this way, and to respond in time to the terms they wish to defend before parlament. 13 amendments were adopted at the Commission's meeting. However, in the debate, the Commission, members of the Commission, has come to one conclusion that perhaps and I think Mr Belkić has suggested that the resolution ministry reconsider its intentional verification. I'm deliberately speaking, stressing to say verification because she's received an unfortunate explanation amongst the people, the account holders of the old foreign currency savings. Maybe it'd be better what the minister used to make the balance. To exempt from this law the way we came to the conclusion that if we go, if we go with the contract, with these agencies that kept single citizens' accounts in demand from the state, that when the terms of payment were obtained, then the contracts must be signed with the banks, so we suggested that the possibility be considered to immediately conclude contracts with the banks, because the gross records were made with them, and that these funds should be balanced in such a way as to pair up, or the electronic records from these agencies are forwarded to the banks. Mrs. Secretary didn't look back on it, so I'd be begging if it's possible that she's answering whether they've come to any thought in that direction in the meantime, because signing twice with two contract entities, I think it's too high, if we can solve it all with the banks. If I can take immediate advantage of the opportunity to, and given my two amendments, my colleague Filip Andrić has submitted an amendment to account for interest of 5% all year round since 2001. I'm holding, actually having '91. Taking into account all the suggestions that were sent by the Registrar Minister and calling for some explanations where certain institutions had stressed that they could, may consider the write-off of interest at the time of the war, my amendment went in the direction that in 19 the calculation then interest of '96. to the moment of this law of 1%. For one simple reason I don't think we really have an excuse why in a period when there was no more war we can't count interest on saving these citizens. Here's what I had to say about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23035	I thank Mrs. Sopta. The word is Mr Momčilo Novaković, so Mrs. Majkić, so Mr. Belkić, it's in order. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23036	I will, of course, try not to take a lot of time since this story has really been talked about not only on the Commission, but also outside the Commission in the media, in discussions a wide variety of ways, so I just don't think there's a lot of need here to talk about it and I need to talk about it and I'm just going to talk about two of my amendments. One of them is the amendment to the amendment adopted by the Commission saying that Amendment II to the Commission is deleted. Let me remind you, this is about Article 1. The law, which was defined in recital 2 to settle obligations under the old foreign savings account, is responsible for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the funds are provided by the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District of BiH. I don't think this is in line with constitutional principles. There is no principle of subordination, and the possibility that we in the financial sphere of our law are not here... Bosnia and Herzegovina, commits to the topic. We just can't do it. Here the question and pragmaticity of these solutions are further raised. Namely, what if the Republika Srpska, the Federation or the Brcko District don't provide funds? So what's Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibility? What will Bosnia and Herzegovina do if they do not provide funds? Is there a mechanism in response to doing something? Did the law define these mechanisms? Of course not, nor has he defined, nor have there been mechanisms that would force Bosnia and Herzegovina to enforce this obligation in any way, unless they had the means. They say they don't have the means to do this. It has a set list of priorities to pay off funds from the budget. And there's just a series of other arguments that suggest that it's impossible in this way to define obligations and responsibilities based on old foreign savings. That is why I suggest that this member of the law return to the initial text. The second element was already already explained by Mr Filip Andrić and he was just saying something different. Namely, he spoke of an interest rate of 0.5% for the period since 1.1 means 1992 and beyond. My proposal is, in fact, to delete that member, but it is not disputed, therefore, to join some proposal that is acceptable to all others, but that this interest is not really written off in this way, or simply by one move, one....one legal act to these people who certainly have the right to take it away. Of course I understand the attempt to find a balance between Bosnia and Herzegovina's opportunities, i.e. its entities and Brcko District and citizens' demands. But that balance can't be illogical. So it's not possible to balance the damage, or just to harm one of the participants in that balance. 20 That is why I reiterated this amendment so that Article 4. The law is deleted because I believe that these people in another court will probably get us in some trial and then we'll have to pay a lot more than we have to today to determine some interest rate in this law that I'd like to say conditionally all of them agree to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23037	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23038	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believed, and I was deeply convinced that at today's session, so this 77th session of the House of Representatives would be much closer to solving the 15-year problem of reconciliation of the old foreign currency savings obligations than we were at last session of the House. However, I can also say responsibly as an MP and as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee that nothing has changed in the meantime and that because of the initial situation, i.e. the previous Commission report which was negative and from the point of view of the principles of adoption, we are positive, although I do not know practically on what basis. I believed that the legislator would wake up from sleep and show the will to solve problems in a concrete way close to 500,000 citizens of this country who have remained absolutely unprotected because the very name of this law says that it is something that is old and forgotten, and we all know that private property and private property anywhere in any civilized country can be neither old nor forgotten. Tragically, so many legislators of this law do not have the will to make any fundamental move towards resolving this problem and how many amendments to the law, or the amendments adopted by the promoters, are insulting, because they do not touch the essence in any segment. So the accepted amendment proposal to amend the name of the law now reads – Proposal for a Law on the settlement of obligations under the old foreign currency savings. This certainly does not mean that the promoter has evolved in his thinking. It's just an attempt to blur the public's eyes thinking that this way they'll make concessions to old foreign currency savings that are mostly old people, over 65 years old, but they've been fooled so many times that they haven't been so hard to turn the other side of this proposal and see that they've essentially changed nothing. The second accepted amendment, which supports the reduction in the maturity of the old foreign exchange savings of up to 13 years, with a fixed interest rate prescribed on bonds of 2.5%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill not only limits the right of a large number of people to property, but they are even deprived of their property by this law. Yes, this law limits the right to property, because one bonding contract has been amended in such a way that the privileges of one party are directly in contrast with the other party, i.e. savings that are limited to the possibility of making available their resources. In a large number of cases it is about deprivement of property, because the payment of savings roles will last just as long as most of the old foreign savings are not in life. On one more concession, the promoter was generous, which I generously went under the supposed signs. There are many persuasions, the amendment under which the proposer is obliged has been accepted, i.e. he has committed to helping through his international activities savings that have savings in banks based outside BiH to exercise their rights. We have finally asked them that the Council of Ministers does not consider it their obligation to protect the interests of its citizens in the best way and in the most comprehensive way. Thank them for their generosity. 21 I want to say one more thing here about another important aspect. I wonder if the state could have proposed such a law from the point of view of public interest. In fact, no one in the slow state can control the use of property in accordance with the general interest. However, it is a questionable assessment of the standards. Which means actually a public interest. At the assessment of what the general interest is. It is certain that there must be a balance between the interests of the community, namely the state and the fundamental rights of the individual, especially when it comes to contracts, i.e. between the state and the savings. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot drastically violate its obligations to savings from the absecction of the power of power without being protected and without any possibility of doing any legal action in relation to this bill, except to sit here and watch how we will decide at the end of the debate on this point. They don't even have the ability to collect their foreign currency savings by forced means. In this case, is the state's interest not to carry out its obligations equal to the general interests? And finally to conclude. This bill does not contain any status change, so for all this time as far as we are concerned, as much in the procedure that would improve its quality and help solve this complex problem. Furthermore, by adopting it as a law that is anti-constitutional and not democratic and anti-civility Bosnia and Herzegovina can have inconceivable consequences, we must be aware of that. By adopting this law, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly will send a message to citizens that the government of this country is not interested in the opinion of more than 1/3 of its inhabitants. What less social groups can be expected in such a consultation that are far weaker and far more organized. The promoter did not consider any of the options offered and new modusa that were heard during the public debate, I would ask the chairman to warn the MPs of
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23039	Please, let's hear from the representative. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. Please. Well, I just warned them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23040	that none of the backup solutions have been accepted, and that is the question of how to include this in this all the means of succession. Whether part of the commitment can be executed on the basis of the funds
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23041	May I have your attention, please? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23042	collected by VAT. Is there any state property that could make up for the exchange for old foreign savings? Is there any building and agricultural land that could be subject to old foreign savings, are they able to be treated by the resources of their old foreign currency savings? These are the answers that remain open and I suggest that the principles of this law be rejected accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23043	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23044	After these previous discussions, it is very difficult to say anything at all because an omosphere has been created in which it is practically expressed a civilizational anti-constitutional disgrace etc. limit all those who try to see things realistically. People listen, the public listens, justice, property, etc. First I ask who cheated on people here for 15 years? So let's get this straight. Who cheated on people for 15 years? This state, this state, this parliament, discusses these matters after the decision of the House for Human Rights, or the Commission for Human Rights at the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So not by our goodwill, not by the Council of Ministers' initiative, but by a higher power. The state has been completely unprepared for the situation, and it has been fraughtly trying to answer the question that normal states normally answer these past few months. And today's debate isn't helping the state to do anything on that plan. All is questioned by constitutionality, they belong to income, they do not belong to income, etc. etc. I think, I think, no matter what is said here and what anyone thinks and in front of the association, etc. that the state is trying, trying in the right way to respond to its obligations to citizens. How objective and realistic she is, how economically she is, that's another question. Have we made fair all the resources available, respecting the other obligations that the state has. We can discuss that. So, I absolutely support and I'm sure that when it comes to principles, that the state has set the law in the best possible way towards savings, possibly at this point what is cash, what is Mrs. Omersoftić, you have some problems? So let me speak. Let me see, I see, ma'am. So the state is certainly doing what it can at this point. And that's why we're all here together to look for that solution, and it's about to be eliminated. It's starting to shut down and stay with one, I think it's inadmissible. And that there is no will to do so in these 42 men and that we do not understand what it is. I'd be the happiest now, I say right now, I'll vote, let's pay everyone off right now. Of course, let's pay off everything right now tomorrow. Don't bid. Give us some serious arguments to work with. I suggest we get out of principle, those who don't support the solution, etc. They need to know what's going to happen on April 11th. There won't be a law, but they need to know what's gonna happen. Okay. But that's what we know. So I suggest that we go to another reading, that is, to support the principles and discuss these improvements to the amendments, etc., because we will return to the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23045	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Nikola Špirić. Mr Špirić, Mr Zorić, the minister will consider everything that is said and answered everyone. We accept thank you. Mr. Špirić, please. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23046	The esteemed chairman and esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, the esteemed guests, and I was thinking about whether or not I should report for a word at all, but what I want to say about the principles of this law is, I regret that we have come into one time-scraper and all this is what is an attempt of cosmetic change was on the line of meeting the date that is related to the Constitutional Court's decision. And I don't think it's bad to take care of that date too, because we were limited in time. But what I hear today in public and when I confront the problem that the state needs to solve for me is not clear here is what my colleague Belkić was talking about, whether all resources are available to address this important and significant problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a fundamental question of the principle of this law. Because if those resources were put in then there would be fewer amendments and fewer dispute over principles. I'm listening in the media these days, actually two days ago in Avaz I hear the title was "A worrying revenue growth Directorate for indirect taxation". You can think of worrying about growth, people are worried that so much income growth, and today we realize that we can't solve one of the major problems. Something's wrong. People began to worry about growing incomes in this country. And you might think everything you need to be picked up to help solve this problem. Then what about the foreign reserve? What about revenues based on the insertion of reserves held by the Central Bank in accounts outside Bosnia and Herzegovina? Does anyone know what they are? Can they solve 5% or 10% of this plight that plagues the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? What about the funds also of the succession, are they involved, or are they not involved? So what about those who are long old foreign savings and what are real sources? Do long and real sources correspond with time 5, 10, or 15 years? But you see how the deblockation occurred, and it says we've unblocked the account of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and serviced the external debt. That's what we have to do. When it comes to old-fashioned foreign savings, who cares? So I ask you and this is the real question and it concerns the principle of the law whether all possibilities are considered, all resources. Who's worried? So, I'm asking you and this is the real question and this is about the principle of the law, whether all the possibilities and all the resources are properly put in place to solve this problem. I don't think so. I don't think so, and that's why I have to say, I've done everything, and when it comes to the Constitutional Court, maybe I've made the situation a little worse, it wasn't my intention, it was my intention to solve this problem. I don't think this law will satisfy the needs of those citizens who are looking for a solution to their problem. Parliament can pass the law, I say we don't need an ideal law that is inconclusive, nor do we need a bad law in order for us to stay out of business and so I won't support the principles of the law because I think this law could work better in the interest of therefore, the citizens who are asking for this problem to be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23047	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić, so let Mr. Selim Bešlagić get on board. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23048	Of course, I have no ambition to solve this problem, but some statements and some discussions seemed to me to agree to the torment of these people who gave their money to banks in BiH and now someone, and the country that is a successor to the former Yugoslavia, will not return that money. I wonder if it's possible for the state to work like that to take half the money from today's savings and return it to these old ones. When to take other people's property. So, I don't know what it means to take the money that was deposited out there somewhere in Swiss banks from the former Yugoslavia, so that's what they want to take, and like she was guaranteed, so these people let Bog help this, let them care for themselves. It was also mentioned here that the Council of Ministers tried to solve this problem the best way. What does that mean for the best? The best way to get the money back to the savings. It's like I'm taking out a loan in a bank and I'm not giving it back. And I say, I give it back to you in the best possible way. I don't have any money, I'm not coming back. That's no solution to the problem. They'd come and prey. Can these people be compensated? I think I can. Immediately, there are so many public companies in BiH, that people would be satisfied with the shares. Those shares could be sold right away, because those shares are worth it. But no, that problem doesn't want to be solved. This isn't a political problem. Why isn't he getting rid of himself in BiH? I agree completely with Belkić, who's to blame for this problem not being solved here, I won't say 15 years, but I mean 11 years? And why isn't he getting rid of it? Do we support the robbery of our citizens in BiH? I don't support it. I will seek a break before the plea and agree with my colleagues at the club, especially by respecting the opinion of Mr. Andrić and Mrs. Sopta, who worked most on this bill, but my debate is often logical and clean, here let's say fair, listening to people who come to us here in Parliament, who are asking for their money, and we say, so I would be embarrassed to leave, if I loaned a friend, acquaintance or someone else, it would be uncomfortable for me to go to his house and ask that money. I admire these people, who went down to that level and came here to ask their own. Came to the owner of those banks to ask your money. It's like I come with this card that I get paid on and I come to the bank and I say, "Give it to me, it can't." You can't get it, it's all true, it's on your account, it's on your salary, but we won't give it to you. How would I feel and how would you colleagues feel if tomorrow at your bank answered you like that, and that's how these people have been here for a long time. I feel full sympathy for these people and I'll be on their side, but since here I'm saying, my colleagues worked more and more with them through the commission, I've been working on this, and on the first reading I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, so here I am already announcing it, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23049	I thank Mr. Zorić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić. We don't have any more logs. Mr Miloš Jovanović also applied for Mr Petar Kunić. Please report so we can plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23050	I just want to say a few words. I must stress that for the first time I have met people in this parliament who have not pleaded as savings in the entity of Republika Srpska, the Federation or the District, but saves BiH. 25 Secondly, which is very important to note, as a member and the Commission on Human Rights, we have had one debate and we have considered this particular function, the overall responsibility of which the ombudsmen highlighted only the issue of foreign savings, which in other words is not the overall responsibility of BiH and where they have said, what all previous representatives are talking about, about the threat of these people who are effectively deprived of their foreign savings and should be resolved. And the third thing that is in this original one, I would like to stress, that this is a chance that BiH as a state has a law on this part and that it should not return to entities for these reasons and the Brcko District, the obligation of the state is the basis to protect foreign currency savings. In that sense, I think the stories that this country is so poor don't stand, because here as we've heard, the question of public enterprises we still have, which we can place, that the property of this country is such that it can be borrowed, I think all the proposals and solutions that are offered, have not been considered, and for these reasons I think it would be good to have this material with this report actually not passed today, but I would not want to prolong it, but to return it to the commission but with the task of finding a solution. To find a solution because simply, meaning the commission's report, it's going to be a pedestal, it's my personal position that they didn't, yes, well, it doesn't matter which one... but it's important that this issue isn't removed from the agenda, it's to try to understand exactly what many have talked about here. So this country seems to me to have property, there's a possibility and one question that's for me, I'm really not burdened with this, I didn't have an old foreign savings, but I'm interested in where those banks where that savings were stored. We can freely say that these banks are today, today these banks are all banks from abroad, and where are the money? It's a question that someone asked, and I think we need to get an answer, so that we can respond to that answer in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23051	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Word has Mr. Mološ Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23052	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, so here I am briefly and I really want to draw attention to this special Ombdusmen Report on Human Rights, that is, Omdusmen BiH. As far as I've been able to read this, it seems to me that if any of the savings were to complain about this law, if they were to adopt it eventually, I think he would fall before the Constitutional Court. Do we have the right to pass a law exempting the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka and other foreign banks? Do we have the right to the law, to pass a law in which interest is written off? So in that part, I wanted to draw attention to those colleagues who would possibly mean voting for this law, so that he would mean if anyone were to complain that he would fall before the BiH Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23053	Thank you. The word is Dr. Petar Kunić. Let Mrs. Sopta prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23054	Thank you, Chairman. I was talking about this issue at last session of the House of Representatives. The question arises, therefore, the right to return his property, his money, that is the fundamental human right. We are in BiH full, full of calls for human rights of various kinds. So, it seems to me that there is no country in the world, that we are a rarity in how much we call for human rights, and we do not protect fundamental human rights. A fundamental human right is one right to property, right to one's own. There's no dilemma. So 26 people have to get their money back, people have to get their money back on interest. We're witnesses. I will re-emerge in this home, an unprecedented robbery in privatisation in BiH as a whole. Invisible robbery. And this country owes me no idea exactly how many figures, foreign savings. Does this country have a valid system of values, can this state be called upon to the rule of law and not fulfil its basic obligations? He can't kidnap. It's a kidnapping. A major robbery in the history of the Balkans has been carried out in the Balkans. Never done a robbery like that before. Where's the green plan of Ante Marković? Who took the loans back then? Did he return those loans? Did the Council of Ministers establish a fund for those people who raised those loans and never returned, which they built for this cottage unintendedly, etc.? So, some of them got rich on that basis. I know in Banja Luka, and her environment they've been hoisting up these loans. It's money savings. So, what do you need? These facts need to be established, of course, and to see that people return it. Banks are privatized, all assets. And why didn't they find their share of savings in those banks, etc.? So there are a number of different solutions that could have been found if there was a will, of course. No will, no political will. When something was to be realized, there were hundreds, hundreds of questions asked. If we can have an official, or bureaucratic structure in such a way that the judge has the basic court's 2.5 thousand marks of salary, I'm not going to mention the professors of the university up there who have 600 marks of salary. What value does this society have? All possible values have been devalued, including this one, this one. Therefore, no evaluation of this act would have to be taken into account and not taken into account. Therefore, it is necessary to seriously approach this problem and make up, of course, solutions with a higher degree of differentiation that will provide greater opportunities for the return of that money and, of course, that solutions can be found in this respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23055	I'd like to hear from the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23056	Of course, there is also a need to avoid the opportunities that occur in institutions here, that some institutions determine their own salary. We had a case. That's unimaginable. And then we come and talk about the rule of law. Of course, societies that took the rule of law as sacred have made rapid progress. Market economy, the rule of law, for which property, private property, are sacred to modern societies. And we don't stand well on any component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23057	Thank you very much, Professor Kunić. The word now has Mrs. Sopta. I've still been reported here by Mr Izet Hadžić. Did you answer? And Mrs. Majkić, have you called again? No, I don't. So Mr. Hadžić is still registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23058	I apologize for calling back. I still hold that it should be noted, here in front of the Commission some specificity. Not disputed on one side of the savings right, we need to know that both this council of ministers and this paraliament, as a jug of potatoes, got this law in jurisdiction, so that we only got 3 months and so on that we got a certain date to which the law should be passed. And so we can keep an eye on the entity's position on all this. It is very difficult then to offer a quality law. 27 At first I said when we let this law into the procedure that we as representatives, as an institution of a state, are in a hurry because it has a certain date and after which the execution of individual solutions falls on the expense of this state. And that, secondly, it is to us as representatives who are here on behalf of those who represent, on behalf of those owners of the savings, because they are our electoral body, that we are also in the interest of making a quality law. I have to say that in this law, probably in the inability and shortness of time, we didn't first get the amount, or we didn't deal with it, we didn't have the numbers we were talking about, we didn't know what we were making a decision about in one way, or one law, in which way we created the obligations of the state, and in what position we'd put the state in when we passed the law. That's why we insisted on the calculations. At the last Commission, we got one calculation where we were presented not only to the debt of old foreign currency savings, but also to the rest of the country's internal obligations. Besides, I still believe that your data could have been more accurate because the state had a chance. I'm talking now regardless of the entity, she's had a chance to scrap data, because she's got electronic records, the banks got all the data, and she's got electronic records and data on the spent old foreign currency savings in the privatisation process. And it's always spoken in a round number. I think these data could still be cleaned up for those accounted credited interest during this period, for payments made from, since the law is based on 01.01., 31.12.In '91, she was three months old in '92. It could be cleaned up for payments that existed and existed in the meantime. A lot of this could be cleaned up and made possible by a better law. What I'm saying is they haven't yet, I'm guessing this law hasn't been dealt with, and I think they really had to deal with, are sources of resources. Sources of funds were suggested and in one way they are in the air, discussed about it, this law does not concern them. It's all under one pressure on that 17.04. I, in conversation with my colleagues, came to the conclusion that we have another month, it seems to me that we would really pass a quality law. Namely, I spoke to the banking agencies. No one consulted them, I was trying from the beginning, since I was in the privatisation process, at the time I was working, suggesting that it was a special law to create the initial balance sheet of banks. Banks have been downgraded by the law of some things. Making commitments. You know, the state made commitments that way. We now have one problem that I have heard now, here not to this commission but now, that the question is the old foreign currency savings of the Tuzla Bank. Tuzlaska Banka privatises before the privatisation process. Will they find themselves seeking the state? These are all things that I think we had to have crystal clear before we could access this bill. If it wasn't for this famous 17.04. And I'm holding, if it's possible to think and move that date maybe, if it's really not going to lead to a blockage of the bill, or to a download from the state's account, based on certain judgments, I do, and now I'm holding that it would be good to make some kind of a move. What I think would be better if we hadn't crystallized the law, and it was even in the title, thanks to Mr Špirić and his amendment, with possible pressures, we changed the title of the law. That verification, the least important thing is how it will prove itself, but I say, saving has a quality document, the state is in the interest of doing it the simplest way. I believe it doesn't even have to be uniquely solved in the RS Federation, because the privatisation process didn't go the same. Therefore, I think it was better to leave this verification in some kind of implementing act, to take a good look at the situation and to adopt this implementing act to the Council of 28 mins, which would be easier for both savings and for the country itself to be placed on the other side. For saving in such a way that banks are resolved and banks are willing to deal with the savings they have spoken to the bank's directors. They'll have to make a deal with them because they'll have to pay cash, even if it's 500 marks, if it's 500 marks, then they should have a secure vault and have special security to keep the money. So it's definitely going to be the banks. Here, these are the three things you might be able to clean up, sources, verification and amounts, if you had time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23059	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Like this, let's just do a review of the reported. Mr. Izet Hadžić, Mrs. Senija Kapetanović, Mr. Sipović, Mrs. Leho, and Mrs. Perkanović. That was the order. Here you go, Mr. Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23060	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I have come to support those who feel that time should be required to work on the law, to improve it, and I believe that the law can certainly be improved and arranged and that it is so insufficient, that I should say meet all needs. So, first of all, I called to see if there could be a solution to the extension of the deadline for improving this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23061	Thank you very much, Mr. Hadžić. Mrs. Senija Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23062	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I thought I'd pick up at this point, which number is this? 15, is it, giving some commission to investigate foreign exchange savings, believing that this part would actually need to solve that problem that was never treated enough here, that this foreign savings had disappeared, because in no way did it mention the banks, in which way it was invested, where it went, how it happened that this part was nowhere, and after all no one cared how we did it with the structure of the state and the banks, how it happened and where it ended that money? However, today, this current debate on principles turns out, that this part of the problem will have to be resolved first and that before that, we will not, in the different views of all who have discussed, what we should support today, turns out that it should stand next to this one, that, as a point of the agenda, it should have stood right next to this law, or before this. So, I think that part still needs to be affirmed, and in any case not just in the sense that, a little from my colleague Sopta, I realized that this is just going to be in the verification and not in the research, I think we should investigate this really, this situation, that the money is gone, because what we have here today is a generation of people, today's budgets, which means all of us would return that part of the problem and we have a thousand problems that should be solved from 29. It's mentioned here and sources, let's say the VAT that's been increased, maybe it could be a choice for saving. But when we're going to solve these other social problems that we have, and I think it might be possible to make some property available, I agree, but the state's thinking about VAT is really inappropriate because what we're now not all solving problems, and whatever we get in the budget more, we just need to see where we're going to focus it. So, I think, I'm also joining you that maybe this should be delayed if you can look at all these conditions a little bit and see under what conditions we can then save that foreign exchange that not, of course, respecting all the savings rights, that it's uncut property and that we can't leave it unscathed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23063	On this last one, we must not touch the money collected from VAT to solve this problem because there are social cases. So imagine that, I have to draw again. I hand over the money from you and then I make the money. So I won't pay you back, I'll buy a more expensive cell phone. I'll buy a more expensive cell phone, I'll fix the car a little bit, and I owe you one, and what you're gonna do, I owe you one. Well, we can't have that rhetoric, so here's what I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23064	Thank you very much. The word now has Mr. Sipović. I'll just read the order. Mr. Terzić, the prime minister, I suggest we listen to the MP, if they agree, three more discussions and then, well, I accept Mr. Sipović's offer. Have Mrs. Leho prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23065	As a responsible MP in this House of Representatives, and a member of the Commission on Finance and Budget, I have actively participated since the beginning and in the public debate on this very important burning problem. I've been trying to get in touch with foreign exchange savings and see different methods, suggestions, suggestions, and in the members of the Commission, but gentlemen, I'm in the process of discussing and listening carefully to the representatives of the international community, to come up with a quality solution of this law, but I've been going on on the Commission, I have to say whether out of misunderstanding my proposals and suggestions have always been reputed or ignored. But I see here, in diametrically different opinions, so I'm surprised at the MPs from certain political parties, he... is calling for opinions to be different from their board members in the Finance and Budget Committee itself. That's a little confusing. But, Mr. Chairman, in order for my proposals and polemics to cause a wider debate here, I think the thing is, if I start talking about the Law on Bond relations or broader aspects of international standards, I'd probably tire of this respectable home and the public. I want to say something, I think the point is, since my proposals have been ignored, they haven't come out, I respect most of them in this home. So, I don't want to take it out now because it would cause controversy and that this, as I see it, isn't a good atmosphere, you know, whatever I bring out, so it would be positive, it's welcome from some people with anamotives. 30 I will support this time for pragmatic reasons, because we state, we must have legal regulations and respect an institution such as the Constitutional Court and for pragmatic reasons will support such a bill which is some kind of compromise and for this reason I must tell you what this law is if it is passed to Bogo. Please, the initiative to amend and supplement all of it, can go to this home and improve in certain provisions. I'd ask, you know what, I'm not a man who's not credible and makes false promises to someone to sound nice in his ear. It's a bit of a profiled promise. I consider myself very responsible, to go out to meet this parlamet is this government, to go out to meet, to start with this problem. There will be a lot of solutions that will fix certain things, and in particular there are suggestions from foreign savings and the formation of the commission, how they will be resolved by the succession, where the funds are, where they are going to go far away, but I think there is still some step in the adoption of a law, by being fully aware of the MP, and here my club from which I encourage the SDA, the responsibilities of today to support the adoption of such a law, by respecting the institution of the Constitutional Court, and where it is written and where it is written that these certain provisions cannot be properly processed, after the information and the sublaw act, this what my colleague Sopta was saying, I also suggested that the verification as an administrative procedure was resolved by a sublaw act and that it included the BiH Agency and entity and I suggested, however, did not, my suggestions were not being heard, ignored or ignored. But that's why I say that I am extremely responsible but since my proposals might be very high-quality, I tell you very pragmatic, feasible, high-quality and for the Council of Ministers' promoters and for you as foreign savings are good. They are not respected in the pre-parliamentary procedure, and I have to respect the commission's report, respect the majority that is smarter and this home and respect it. I will always be available for a positive resolution of certain provisions. So the law has not been laid down, the law of the provision can be changed to the initiative of you and the Council of Ministers and the Parlamntar House. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23066	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Leho, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23067	Dear Chairman, so that I may understand most of the discussions that I have heard from fellow MPs and MPs so far, I ask the motionary, since we received this in December, since some bodies have so far resolved this matter, to give us an overview of how they did it. Did they take care of all the aspects I heard during today's discussion? And secondly, as countries in the environment have done, created by the disolution of Yugoslavia. Is our proposal much different than that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23068	Thank you very much. We still have Mrs. Perkanović, then we'll give the word to Minister Marić. Here you go, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable guests, given that there have been a lot of discussions and that, from the occasion in all these discussions, there has been a mass of it, the most important thing to say, I would, on the basis of this, have stood at the point that, since this law was not satisfied by its cauliette, did not satisfy the expectations of foreign exchange 31 savings who were patiently cooperating all the time, during and commission work on this law, which showed a good mood even this one, gave some concessions which, for me, too, were great concessions of foreign savings. Given that they have not had the right for 15 years to dispose of their assets, since we have longed for another 15 years, so that they can eventually come to the realization of their claims, respecting human rights and human rights conventions, respecting and respecting BiH's potential, I believe not all the resources have been used, that not all of them have been taken into account in the making of this law and that it has been done over its knees, speedily and that it does not go to the benefit of either BiH or the citizens, or foreign savings. I will draw that the Finance Commission and the budget have been sitting in a tight quorum. Of the 9 members, only 5 were present. Of these 5, 4 have declared themselves to the principles of the law. Thus, it is neither a quality indicator nor an indication that it is a great mood to support such a bill. I will also underline this, that BiH should build trust in citizens, that citizens should trust in the state, that they must regain trust in banks. And restoring trust in banks means depriving foreign savings, means acting in accordance with the law as it was at the time when they deposited that money on accounts and when the state, or successor of the former Yugoslavia, stood behind those guarantees. Thirdly, I heard that BiH does not belong to the large-scale, but to the middle-indeeded states, which is optimism for me and I see that there are better ways to find a compromise between foreign savings and the Council of Ministers and to make a quality law that will satisfy both the public and BiH as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23070	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. Rijeka has a finance minister, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23071	I wouldn't want to interpret it, and you'll also understand that this is a conflict between this council of ministers and this House. I cannot accept the fact that the Council of Ministers will not return the savings savings to BiH. I cannot accept the claim that the Council of Ministers did not do everything it could, within six months, to find a way to start returning the old foreign savings to savings after 15 years. Now, the human rights issue, those banks that had headquarters in BiH territory. So we now satisfy this law in a way that this country can do it on a sustainable basis, given the calculations that have been made, for a part of the savings of nearly 2 billion marks. Had it been luck, if it had been different, these problems wouldn't have come to this country. So this is it, that's it, etc. You know how hard we've all worked together to pass the VAT Act, you know how much we're discussing today. And when this law says, in Article 18, that this savings will come back from VAT, from the tax on all of us, you say these are insecure sources. I can really believe a lot of things in life, but that you won't see the whole country being burdened, and that they're going to come back from taxes that are collected through VAT after external debt, this savings, I don't really have words to say here. So many discussions were held after the adoption of the entity-level law, where they gave people 50 years to pay back their old foreign currency savings. That's why these laws are broken, because they put human rights at risk. There's j... an interest on the one hand, a country on the one hand and 32 of course people looking for something. Are we done coming back? How much do we invest in the countryside right now? Did we raise the farm? Did we pay back the debt? Well, some priorities we've really established. Why someone put this in the back, I don't know. Why are we the last country to introduce VAT into the region? Why are we the last country that hasn't brought this back to people? I don't know. I really don't know that. But through this law, this country is given a chance to be equal to other countries. Of course, the law can be corrected and, of course, the law can always be issued after we issue one bond, after 5 years, better and more, but if the situation in the economic country says it is possible. The entity working group sent by the finance ministries, so Mr. Đombić, so Mr. Dodik, on the one hand and Mr. Vrankić, or Mr. Hadžipašić, agreed, signed the record that the payment is up to 13 years at 2.5% sustainable interest, if we say that we have 400 million foreign debt next year, that our GDP is growing per capita and that in 2008 for sure, we will have to start returning the London Club that burdens us with additional debt. We never started bringing back the London Club. That our debt is total of 4 billion external debt, really sustainable, really rational, but if the situation in the country is what 4 is this year, 5% of GDP growth, small inflation, karens and pine, etc. So, I argue that we have all agreed very clearly and precisely on the following, that the long-standing problem is 15 years, that it must be resolved and now, that there is a verdict, a decision in the Commission for Human Rights of the Constitutional Court that says that it is doing the right of all people in one way, and that means that if the payment comes on 1.10.2008 this year, the annuity of this year, all the savings from the banks that were, based in BiH, will be paid for the first annuity. How big is he gonna be? Well, my people, if there hadn't been a verification blockade in RS, so far all the data would have been leveled. That's why we have about 60,000 savings. We don't know if that's 57 thousand 121, we don't know. So we have the data the banks sent, really. Why the agency? Because there was a privatisation done through that agency. And because there were several changes to the law in entities tied up, transfer the money from the foreign exchange account to a single account, tax return. And that's why it's called real billing. It's a banking term. Why not the banks? I don't understand us either. We privatized banks according to the laws that were in force in this country, which were not shot down by any court. Banks are very successful in the part that creates the financial sector in this country. On the other hand, it's private banks. Why would they let me, as a state, run now the re-coupling of books instead of a state institution that I really have the right to trust with such a job in this case? By jurisdiction, it belongs to state institutions. And I think he'll be done soon. It would have been over if it hadn't been for a real obstruction, or giving a fake picture that someone was trying to trick these people again. I'm really doing this law, I think the best possible solutions are embedded in it. First, we offered as a Council of Ministers six months ago to this parliament, a law on the distribution of funds obtained by a succession. Who was here meets you. Eh, when the law came into the process, he wasn't voted and out of the $36.8 million that was incarcerated all the time because we didn't share them, we don't have the right to sign on them, we said that's money for internal debt and that's just for old foreign savings. And the netites said, yes, that's right, we'll keep that 36.8, with interest on 40 million for foreign exchange savings. That's the money for these 100 marks. In the meantime, we'll sell gold if Bog gives the Central Bank one good exchange rate, we'll have some money to pay off these claims. Of course, foreign exchange savings that were saved in the Ljubljanska Banka and saved in Invest Banka have the right to certain funds in this country. Slovenia, which began to repay this debt to its savings in 93 years, returned it for 10 years with an interest of 4% 33 and when it crossed everyone but its citizens. For 10 years, she was returning the savings from 93 to my data by 2003. Croatia has begun to return savings, say 94-5. Now, we've last introduced VAT to pool revenues, to reduce the grey economy, to get this extra income. And in this law it says that an external debt will be paid and that an internal debt will be paid under this law, this savings. And in the current account blockade, meaning external debt, it's obligations to creditors outside, if you're going to live with the world you have to carry out obligations, with the world around, if you're going to live with your citizens, obligations, so this is already a contract. I'm thinking of executing from the same means. After that, part of it would belong to the state and entities. Why does it say in the law that the state is responsible for the savings and the funds are provided by entities? Because entities will adopt implementing rules. Because the jurisdiction was on entities to solve this, so when they passed different regulations and made a different problem, then, after this court ruling, a solution was reached. In addition, it would be very good if we really had time and if we really got even these conditions in the meantime that could be made very quickly, 600,000 bills of opportunity have, about 60,000 savings. But, look, day, if we move this thing around, we're taking the whole process apart who knows when, again. This is a real opportunity right now. Little did he force us to go to the Court, but he said this, if we don't publish the law by 17.04, the payment will begin for applicants, 100 marks will be paid, and some conclusion number 19, which determines BiH's responsibility for tight interest. The previous decision established the Federation of BiH's obligation to make 15 decisions, so it has the number of decisions, with regard to a 100-mark cash payment, the Commission changes its conclusion and says, in the sense that BiH is responsible for paying all those 100 marks at the end of the deadline. A lawsuit against BiH is being opened. In this process, no one will actually go well, or save, because the process will not be able to continue so uncontrollably. We already have a lot of lawsuits, soldiers, people who are damaged for some rights and are waiting on the list of priorities for us to repay that debt. To sue us all together, there will again be a list of priorities, sustainability of budgets and comparisons, public interest and what can be done. And that's why the principles of this law, allow for a final insight into the real state of accounts, into the number of persons. So, for verification, it doesn't have to come personally, it can empower someone. In the trial, you can prove something if your book was burned and I don't know, something else happened to you. So, all the possibilities are open and we really don't see why someone would now stop this part of the people, these savings on this right. And of course, to this, similar solutions are provided for the other part of the people who are not in this law. Here's one global view of all of this, but it's a way that provides a solution to the problem. Behind this, they would offer the law immediately on the distribution of the means of succession, changes to a single account and ensure this. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23072	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23073	And entities have settled their laws with payments of up to 50 years. They had entity laws, individual savings of 900 billion and some million RS, to up to 50 years of bonds. And that's why that law was brought down and this decision and this one, yes, there it is. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23074	I thank Mrs. Minsitrica. I don't know if there's any need to replicate the minister's exposure, I think we heard, if you insist, ma'am. Here you go, Mrs. Sopta, that's an additional explanation, let's say, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23075	So, when I was talking about a contract with naks or a contract with agencies, I was told that agency employees would first have to train, secondly, that they would have to increase by a number. Third, the contract is concluded with them. So they'll be paid, let's not forget that it's a stock company, that we make a deal with them as well as with banks. And I'm saying we're going to have to make a deal with the banks the moment we take off payments, because it's impossible for one agency to pay off and keep that money. I believe that there must be a financial institution that has both its specific attitude and its specific fit and specific if you want the equipment from the vault and the cash-saver. I do, for that reason practicality and what's cheaper for the state. Here's what I wanted since the gross change happened to banks and the electronic records also have about the privatisation process that was spent, it just has an electronic record and citizens have a copy. Therefore, they have clean. This was mine, and I'm holding it, whether it's going to be a contract with both agencies or whether it's going to be a contract with both agencies and banks. I keep it for that reason that it's practically with the banks.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23076	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23077	Then I don't think you should stand in this law, I'm holding that you shouldn't stand in this law, that it's going to be done by the agencies. Here was our practical contribution to getting rid of the way this property is going to be balanced, not by this law, but by being in entity laws, if it's going to be theirs, and all it says here is that before the actual debt is determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23078	Okay, thanks to Mrs. Sopta. Mrs. Perkanović, you wanted to. Please be my guest. Please, we already are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23079	Given that I failed to answer the question on the commission, what about the savings whose guarantee was the Yugoslav Bank, whether the foreign exchange deposit surplus was carried out under the succession, or whether the foreign savings that were this one, behind which the Yugoslav Bank stood. I am not responsible for this, and I am asking this because foreign exchange savings from Invest Bank, the Ljubljana Baths cannot be left to themselves, must be equal to the savings guaranteed by the Republic of BiH. Can they make claims from the Invest Bank or the Ljubljanska Banka, if the conflict and the matter is resolved, or divided into republics? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23080	Since we're no longer registered, do you want anything else?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23081	The microphone is not included Individual cases have the possibility of the Court, really if it comes to anything, there is a court case.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23082	Okay, thank you very much. We have exhausted the applications for the discussion and we are acting upon the request of the Croatian People's Representatives Club, which was requested by Mr Zorić, on behalf of the Club to pause before the first reading. I ask the MPs to continue our work at 2:00 a.m. due to the college's duties and that until then, everyone use your time for lunch and then work until we finish the agenda. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] So we've finished the debate, the first reading on the bill on verification, the settlement of the liabilities based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings, and now I'm asking the MPs to take up seats so that we can declare the law in the first reading. Please, if you're ready, vote now. Who's in favor of the principles of the law? The law has a general majority in first reading, no entity from the RS. I suggest we plead immediately because we are bound by deadlines. So there's no consent in the College. We're going to the second round of pleas. Those who are against the principles of the law vote. Please vote now. So the law was passed in the first reading. I ask the MPs to make a statement and to discuss this law today in a second reading. Please make a statement about who's in favour? Vote now. So, the College has reached agreement. Let's go, because of the deadlines, we're simply forced to finish our part of the job. So we're moving on to another reading and I'm opening a debate on amendments. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23084	An interpretation of what you've done now. In fact, we voted whether or not we were going to do another reading at all. I ask that it be interpreted whether in that case I have agreed or 36 simply has not been decided to work in another reading. We don't have a decision to do in second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23085	Look, if I can answer Mr. Novaković. So we had most of it for second reading. It wasn't the entity majority. Then the College agrees. And the College has reached the agreement to go to another reading. It's a procedure. And that's clean. The second thing is when we reach agreement, then we go to the second round of votes, but we have now reached agreement that because of the obligations we have under the Constitutional Court's decision, today we work in a second reading, like the College. It's a business situation. And there's nothing controversial about it. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23086	And he said due to deadlines, to agree, I think we're open to the end, I'm not his lawyer, but that's what the man said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23087	Come on, but I think things are clear. Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23088	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to be clear to the end. We had a vote in the first reading. I said my vote. One is my position on the principles of the law and the other is on the procedure and obligation of the Constitutional Court. My position in the second vote will be against it, but I don't want to stop the procedure and beg to be clear here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23089	I thank Mr. Špirić. So it's the second reading. There is a debate on the declaration of amendments. The word was requested by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23090	Given that the foothold for this, you could, I suppose, find somewhere around the agenda, because we're practically changing the agenda here. I do not know in which member of the Rules of Procedure you have found a foothold, I say this is the agenda please, this is not the adoption of the law or not the adoption of a decision or not the adoption of a decision. Where, I beg you, in what member of the Rules of Procedure have you found a foothold for this procedure? To even agree on this issue, not a process of alignment, but even a consensus is possible on this matter? This is where we determine the agenda, please. We extend it practically to this because we in the agenda adopted the law in the first reading. This is the law in the second reading. That wasn't in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23091	Mr. Novaković, I will ask the Secretary of the dom, Mrs. Todorović, to give the answer, and secondly, you know that's how we acted. This isn't the first time Dom's pleading 37 if we're going to do another reading. So no one makes an individual decision. It's Home's decision, and I'm asking, so I know, there's a procedure if there's not enough votes one-third of the entity to act then. That's when he's headed for College. I think it's clean, but here's what I'm going to ask Mrs. Todorović to say if she has anything to say. Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23092	Honorable members of the House College, distinguished MPs, I will try to answer the MPs' question. I think it's clear what we've done before. So in the first reading we went to the second round of voting, when we talked about the first reading, right, there was no entity majority. Then the chairman asked if there was a will for the House to move to the second round of voting. Then in that circle, in that part of the statement of conclusion, about going into the second round, the second reading we didn't have an entity majority. The House College has reached agreement and, in such cases, the provision of Article 64(5) which states that the House is being notified in such a situation, and means the decision to move to another vote has been made. This second question I will try to answer to the MP and the other MPs who listen to me. We're according to article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House provided for the procedure of reading the law in the first reading. There is no special deadline between Articles 95 and 96 that would require the House to postpone the discussion in the second reading. For me, the measurement decision of the House, which decided to move to a second reading, and the second reading consists of discussion and voting on the proposed amendments. If I'm clear, if not, I'll stay behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23093	I thank Mrs. Todorović. Did we absorb this? Thank you very much. I'm opening an amendment debate. You've got the amendment exam. So, in order, by the articles.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23094	Yes, they all got MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23095	Who wants to talk? Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23096	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really sorry, I was talking about principles in the first debate. I said then that, that amendments concern principles, but here I just want to draw attention to my fellow MPs that my second and third amendment essentially gives us room for further improvements to this law if we pass. By adopting Amendment V, we would give ourselves another 30 days' chance to define the issue of verification and 38 by adopting Amendment III, we would leave ourselves the possibilities of full legal definition and full return of old foreign exchange savings, from sources, methods of payment, deadlines and any other issues concerning this. Therefore, if we had to pass by the 17th law, they would have passed the law. It would contain six articles, and we would leave room for the next 30 days so that this law as it was offered could be further repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23097	Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23098	So I'd like to ask Ms. Secretary to make a statement on behalf of the pre-legalist about the amendments. We could use a lot of help with this one. It would help us a lot to hear what the promoter has to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23099	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. I think it's useful. The minister's already at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23100	Please, those principles of ours, as they were, and Filip was present during the vote and Mr. Novaković etc. And what I said, I just repeated what I said then, there was nothing new. But the question of this interest is one really open question and I'm now thinking about that initiative, and then we said it was really very good and it's for the benefit of the savings, but it's by the current calculations, by what we now know 100 million, and then it's an extension because 33 million is at least a half-year-old asset, an extension of the repayment period. You can't have interest and shorter payouts. But since it is, so we cut 15 to 13 and gave a fixed interest of 2.5%, without that inflation plus 1. But since the Council of Ministers is to determine by its act, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury should by its act in the article, I don't know which one, to establish that final payment plan, might be when the final verification is done, meaning when we get all these states and the final payment plan, it might be possible. So for the longest six months or nine months to see if it's really possible to calculate interest and in what amount it is for this period. That might even be nominal, I don't know any other amount that if it were divided, maybe it wouldn't be even 5%, but now, in the calculation that we have with the data that we have, it really wasn't possible. And besides, really, the Human Rights Commission has said and treated the special point of this period and said because of the greater interest and they think it is, it can be left. We'd really like to give some interest at that time but now in this law today, we can't write how much it is. We're going to pass a law that will be inconclusive and that according to current indicators, we don't have a bond plan. We just said 100 marks this year, 1,000 next year and in bonds the difference. You can leave an opportunity to actually calculate some interest in that period, but when the payment plan is done, then we'll say either half-years for interest per year, for the principal, or it'll be all half-years because we have to have numbers. Simulating several real(?) models And take which is best, best for people. That's the principle, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23101	And do you have a comment, Mrs. Marić, on these, 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23102	And for all the other amendments, they were all actually contrary to principles, without verification, what I was saying at the beginning. Without insertion of a period of 3 months, etc. It was all what was not already accepted in principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23103	Here you go, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23104	I would ask Mrs. Minister to make a special statement on Amendments II and III to gospodin Andrić, given that they are then changing the whole principle of work further here. If Amendment II to Mr Andrić is acceptable and Amendment III is talking about something else. I'd like you to take a look at those two amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23105	And why didn't you read that amendment? Any further discussions on the amendments? Mr. Andrić, then Mr. Novaković, then go ahead, Mr. Filip Andrić, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23106	After what the minister said, I, if there are business opportunities, can accept that my amendment is corrected, where it will be said that the interest will finally be determined after the verification process and that the rate will not be less than 55%. Therefore, you can leave the possibility, yes. If there's a possibility I'm willing to say suggest that change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23107	I now, if there is a mood to use this part of the Rules of Procedure, where it is said that there is room for a compromise between 2 or 3 solutions and in agreement with the Council of Ministers, to accept this possibility
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23108	The microphone isn't on. We can't accept Martina erasing the verification. In Article 3...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23109	Philippe, can you repeat another concrete proposal, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23110	So, after the Minister's address on the amendment and when it comes to the interest rate, after all she has said, I can accept in part to amend my amendment and to say that they will charge outstanding interest according to the contracts referred to in Article 1(1) after 01.01.'92. The year is done from the same date until the entry into force of this 40 laws will be a new rate-by-foot calculation, I would now put here, which will be determined after verification and at least 0.5%.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23111	Please, I think we're in a situation where we're going to have to declare our amendments. I'm asking the MPs to respect this. Is there anything else the minister would like to say before the plea?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23112	Not a microphone I'd just...... at most 0.5%. More than that is not...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23113	Okay, thank you very much. I'm sorry, I still had to give my word to Mr. Momčil Novaković, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23114	I thank you, Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23115	I'd like to hear from the MPs. Look at the meaning of life's question and interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23116	Uh, effort or attempt by a colleague to come up with a solution that would be acceptable but this time we're talking about solutions that are acceptable to the amendment promoter. So, not about solutions that are acceptable to those who are most interested in solving this problem. So this is a solution that can be acceptable to Mr Andrić, I do not know how acceptable it is for those to whom the consequences of this amendment will later reflect. But of course, I'm into it if we can come up with a solution like this, then I'm about to come up with any solution, it's better than not having a solution. When it comes to these amendments, I must say that the amendment and which I have proposed did not convince me, the minister did not convince me that he could find a foothold for this in the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23117	Please listen to each other. And MPs ask for clarifications from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23118	If we were listening very badly, because if we listened better, we wouldn't have come into this situation to discuss this law like this, you know. If we had listened a little bit better in the debate phase, if the finance minister had listened a little better to this home and the demands that were here from this home, we would have this calculation today, as it calls it, that is, a reckoning and a completely clear situation of what we can and won't be able to do. Because if we had when we adopted the budget and we had income from VAT, then we could have had this. But we didn't because there was no will, as there is no will now for the minister to listen when the president of a club speaks in Parliament. 41 I asked and repeat, so I ask the minister to say it, but clearly, is this provision in line with the principles on which the BiH Constitution rests today? Is it or isn't it? I say it isn't, but I want you to say it here is, because I know why I'm asking it out loud to say it here at the pay phone. So I'm asking, I want it to be completely clear to me. Also that second amendment that I have proposed which speaks of erasing cadmate since 01.01.In '92. I'd really like to know that term 01.01.In '92, that date was 01.01.In '92, I couldn't make it, which means 01.01.In '92. What's going on since 01.01?In '92, we don't count interest? 01.01 and 02.01.92, respectively. For years, it was still like that, that former state. Is it also the obligation, and if it is, then why since 01.01, which is not since '91.? I don't really get it, I don't get it, but here's the other one, I don't get it. I'm saying that in addition to the amendment I've made, which is to delete this member. Here was Mr. Andrić's willingness to enter negotiations. I said in my first address that I was willing to support the solutions if they agreed but it is obvious that there is no deal, because Mr Andrić says, at least 0.5%, the minister says no more than 0.5. So as much as Mr. Andrić is, he won't be angry with his 0.5, so many ministers have made 0.5, but until then, without any reckoning, her and his. I don't think this is a serious relationship with a serious question, and I'm going to commit as the Council of Ministers has meant to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23119	Thank you very much. We're done arguing. I ask you to go and plead in order. He can, Mr. Prime Minister, be given a word whenever he asks. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23120	Look, gentlemen of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I really need to do a little intervention, see if, for months now, the biggest burden has been transferred to the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance. So what's the actual situation is that the Constitutional Court, its Human Rights Commission, has made a decision that obliges us to do something. And we as people who do not comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court but are implementing them, we simply had an obligation to pass, to propose a law that would regulate the issue of old foreign exchange savings for banks that were on BiH territory, registered in BiH territory under the same conditions for all citizens and all former savings in this country, and this was ordered by the Constitutional Court to the Council of Ministers but gave this Parliament time to do so. And we are in a position now, because there is no other way for the law to come to Parliament, any law, especially this one, but to bring it into line with the entities. And this is not a question of whether Minister Marić or the Council of Ministers believes they should be these elements of the law, but rather the result of negotiations in the working group led by Minister Marić on the basis of a Council of Ministers' decision to lead the entity. Because entities also verify entities pay off and we don't have any laws without the consent of entity governments we can't pass, even those laws that don't mean that they come from financial obligations for entities. In the budgets for this year, the entities provided for the funds that, based on those elements they approved, are to be found in the law, to make payments for this year 2006 in the medium-term budgets, etc. 42 So to negotiate, one of the MPs said they were ready to negotiate with Minister Marić. I just want to say that you are not negotiating with Minister Marić at all, because the complete problem is that entity and verification and obligations made by entities. And Minister Marić, she has a clear and precise, what does this slapping mean to Mr. Novaković at 0.5? 0.5 means 100 million KMs, so 17 years longer payment deadlines, etc. We have it, but in this case for any amendment, as a negotiator, it cannot be helped by Minister Marić, but it is again the things that must be negotiated on the working group, because the key position on this is taken by entities. And since we're on deadlines, since we're doing the one, the job we got the warrant for, and you, too, from the Constitutional Court. I don't want to discuss the decisions of the Constitutional Court at all but read it and apply it. I think that this level of compromise reached on the working group should be acceptable and that we do not now go to the amendments the working group has accepted, the Council of Ministers eventually accepted, because we have no other alternative. Neither can we change anything that will not be accepted by the entities, and entities have accepted what is now on your benches. And, please, let us also observe in this light the vote on amendments and especially these discussions, whether Minister Marić accepts your views or not. I know you're saving on the media to Minister Marić and I'm being transferred to responsibility, but it's either their indiscretions or not to say anything else. I know you and the criminal charges, that's why. But that's why I ask you to understand that it's not a question of whether or not Minister Marić and the Council of Ministers want something. It's a matter of acceptance of entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23121	Please finish Mr. Terzić and answer the word and we'll hear from you. Thank you very much. It's the order, please. Mr. Novaković, briefly, because it is already, then Bešlagić, then Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23122	Well, since this is what the entity chairman said, I have two letters from the two Republika Srpska governments. So I have two letters from two governments that don't say that. That's not what it says. So two governments that say it's not like you said. So if I could read both of you, I could copy both of you, I can read you none, I believe that it would be best if I didn't read one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23123	Only from the last government if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23124	Here's the last government. Here's a passport. Since the law is addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly by an urgent procedure, we ask you to achieve this, for the reason that by accepting the proposal without the objections of the Republika Srpska, you would be brought into colluding several existing laws in Republika Srpska, and in particular by taking away the jurisdiction of the institutions of Republika Srpska, such as the Stock Exchange, the Central Register, the Charter Commission and others. So the government asks us not to accept without our amendments. Please. I, you said it was agreed with the government and that you without a government couldn't change anything. I told the government didn't accept this either. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23125	And what's the date on the memo, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23126	Date on the letter, 20 March 2006, signed by the Prime Minister, Milorad Dodik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23127	And here's the minutes with the 05.04 that Minister Marić is talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23128	I've got the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23129	Go ahead, finish up, Mr. Novaković. Everyone who has something to say will get a word. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23130	I was talking about the government, so they didn't respect the government's views when this law was in line and I just want to make it right. So they didn't respect the government's views and we shouldn't say it like that, here's nothing else. And if they should, it's more irrelevant, absolutely non-touchable.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23131	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Have Mr. Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23132	I'll try to be very brief. Following the presentation of Mr. President of the Council of Ministers, I was under the impression that this law should be passed because the BiH Constitutional Court requires that it be adopted by 17. In other words, that it is a compromise, to meet this requirement, noting that this law can be incorrect in these stories of MPs for these people. That's why I'm asking one question, and you tell me the answer and I'll be happy. If the savings that were actually received in the Constitutional Court were this dispute, and they acted as if the law had been passed until 17th, they submitted to the Constitutional Court a request to extend this decision by 17th month, would we now be able to say that, since Minister Marić, since she is now in charge of these things, with those who are directly involved, means to the savings and our people who are dealing with this matter, can we now make a good law that we adopt, we can say that we are satisfied both, and that we should all be able to propose it, and could this be said by the savings, provided that Parliament takes this thing down? Well, it's better to make the law, be careful I'm afraid, and what if the law fails today? Here, what? We'll do it again, we didn't bring it, there'll be another debate there and we'll go through the courts again. I'm not for me to answer to the court for these things I can't get here in the quality I'm expecting. Is it possible for such a solution to settle this thing, that we get time, that we're not responsible in front of the court, that savings are satisfied, and that we end up making a commitment to do this job within 30 or 40 days, as far as we can do it? I think that would be the most correct suggestion. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23133	Thank you. Is it a replica, Mr. Zorić? Replica. Here, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23134	Who'd stay sitting after that exposure? This way, it looks like one of our savings, I can't remember the name now, opened this time how to get to the BiH institutions law. So sue the Constitutional Court. Because last year, in August of the month, we came to the conclusion that by the end of September, the Council of Ministers would have let the Payments Act go into procedure and if we had sued the Constitutional Court, maybe they would have made that law. But they won't make the law because they won't share responsibility. It's just for today. Today they say we are not responsible and you are responsible. I'm not responsible for anything. This kind of bad law to make and persecute the representatives of responsibility, it's at least irresponsible, I won't use the worse word. Filip Andrić, as I recall, asked a parliamentary question two years ago about this issue. Why did it have to, why did this Council of Ministers have to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to rule the law? Why didn't she get a signal from the benches to make this bill? So, they always bring us in, they write the law, today's the last day, 35 million goes down if you don't want this law on this or that, the access to European integration fails, this or that. So, my people, how long are we gonna be like this? And then at the next point, you're going to seek the trust of the MPs and you're holding the forerunners here. How come you're not embarrassed here? How are you not ashamed and the citizens of this country have been robbed? So you didn't ask me, Mr. Prime Minister, if you were going to go to the Sucession money to pay for gas in Moscow, but you went and paid for it, and you robbed the people by introducing excises on lush oil and you never tried to solve that problem or want to solve it. I've asked that question here five times, you're ignoring it like no one's even asked it. Is that a responsibility to the citizens of this country? Let's know that you've just strengthened my position to vote for your shift at the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23135	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Adnan Terzić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23136	Thank you. I have to admit that I was in great fear that you might vote for the Council of Ministers, then I wouldn't know what to do with it. I'm so happy and happy to know that I can relax and wait for that part of the agenda, to see that this one, you voted against me. So it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23137	And I can wait for another robbery.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23138	It's not true, first of all,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23139	Please listen to each other and yes, you all got the word whoever asked for it, at the time he asked and the word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić, please. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23140	Sometimes it's better not to react, not to get up and shut up than to get into unnecessary debates. I went out to say the next one. The Council of Ministers has no constitutional powers and until the Constitutional Court decision we had no constitutional powers to discuss this issue. They're entity intelligence. And that's why it took us to come out and get the Constitutional Court's ruling and the Constitutional Court's order to settle this because we don't have any constitutional powers. So, Mr. Zorić, as far as I'm concerned, and it's impossible not to follow your work, we know you're against these constitutional changes, and here you're alluding to this, why the Council of Ministers didn't move this issue. Because we don't have any constitutional ingenuity on this matter. The Constitutional Court's decision has ordered us and given us temporary constitutional authority to come, to propose this law. And why does the Council of Ministers do that? because the Constitutional Court ordered this, the Human Rights Commission, because this is about human rights and not, and it came to the Council of Ministers as a problem of human rights and not as a financial one, a problem because it remains at entity level. The answer to Mr Bešlagić's question is the following; we have no alternative. Why? Because the Constitutional Court has spoken. The psreudes will start from the 17th, and then all of you will participate in the next scenario. What's the entity's obligation is that someone might want to, okay, come to the execution of the State Budget and you know that there's no discussion about these solutions. In the morning when the solution comes to execution, it is executed and removed from the State budget. So we only have one alternative, which is to cut at least 30% of the salary, leave the reserve and satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision. We don't have another one. So there is one normal path, which is that this Parliament accepts this law and that the House of Peoples accepts this law and that we don't have to go into these things. But the Constitutional Court will not change its decision nor will we ask the Constitutional Court to change its decision. And we're going to have to act on finding that if we have to pay no one out of the state budget, we're going to have to settle the Constitutional Court rulings that are now going to come to hundreds, thousands of solutions that will automatically be removed from the state budget. That's why we think it's much better to pass the law and go this way respecting the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23141	Thank you very much. This is the next order, Mr. Beriz Belkić, Mrs. Majkić, Novaković, Zorić, Andrić. We have a replica. Excuse me, Mr. Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. Are you a replica too?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23142	Well, I don't know what.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23143	All right, replica please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23144	I think it is inappropriate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers here to say that any representative will vote on certain matters at some of the next sessions. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23145	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, is the replica the same? Only the replica has been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23146	Before that, of course, I can't believe I heard this and it's possible I heard it. We had no constitutional basis for today, and then the Constitutional Court gave us a constitutional basis by making an unconstitutional decision. The Constitutional Court couldn't make this decision if it didn't have a constitutional foothold, could it? Or it is. It seems that the Constitutional Court may also make decisions contrary to the Constitution. But even if the Constitutional Court had made a decision contrary to the Constitution, and this is what I have heard from the chairman that he has made, no one has given the Council of Ministers the right to propose law, or certain provisions of the law contrary to the Constitution. So, even if he did, he did not make a decision that a member must vote so that the position 2 in which it says he is responsible for BiH and the responsible entities give money. That's not what the Constitutional Court wrote. Although, as we do, he may even have written it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23147	Okay, the word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23148	I think we really need to get things straight here. So, when it comes to human rights, especially those subject to conventions signed by this state and a guarantee that on the same finding in the entire BiH area, these rights will be protected and realised, no one else is in charge but the BiH state because everyone else has no capacity to do so. That's one thing. So we have no dilemmas here because this law goes in the direction of protecting these human rights. Another thing, no one but the state level has the right to issue bonds. Right? Leave the deal, Momčilo. The deal's over. I'm talking about what the state's network functions are. So, if the whole project and the law is in the function of protecting the human rights that we are all talking about, the state has the right to pass the law and to issue bonds and to reserve funds from the total public revenue for the reconciliation and compensation of the visas of these human rights. And I'm telling you, that's the way it is and really don't let us go back to the beginning. Let's go back to the model, in a way that is as fair as possible, in accordance with the general interests, to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23149	Thank you, Mr. Berizu. Majkić, Perkanović, Andrić, Sipović. Replica, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23150	Same replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23151	All right, here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23152	So the responsibility of the Council of Ministers regarding this law is until that moment until this House of Representatives adopts it. So the bill came from him and all the consequences of the quality or non-quality of that law are on the Council of Ministers. The moment the MPs in this House accept it, all responsibility is upon us. dadkle we didn't accept it because the law is good or bad, with or without flaws. Now, what does it mean if the law isn't passed? We all know that story and that demon's sword, that 17. It's over our heads, but maybe it's a bigger mistake to adopt it regardless of that 17. Because it's going to happen to us that we're going to cause new problems that we're not talking about right now. Do you think we're going to pass the law, do you think we're going to be able to implement it, do you think these people who came here and have been jealously following what's going on for days, do you think they're going to sit still and wait for us to nod like this and stay there? Don't kid yourself. It is a serious issue and it will not go so easily, however often MPs make decisions and raise up, I will press this button at the moment when the law is already enough and when everyone is so tormented, that they can't wait for the law to end. Don't do that. We'll get hit on the head. What's to prevent the law from returning to the task force? We know who the task force was. We know on what conditions the task force has been working on, without any rules of procedure, without any way, we know how the vote was done in the task force and I think that's where the Council of Ministers' fear of getting the law back on track. I think we'll make a lot more trouble if we adopt a missing law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović, replica too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23154	I'll just look back on the story of protecting human rights. This law deprives human rights, please. If BiH should protect human rights in this way, then it is really critical. We need to imagine what that is. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23155	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrić. Please briefly, more times then Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23156	I apologize for reporting more than once, but I'm a little moved by the debate of the Council of Ministers. Apparently, he didn't listen when I explained my second and third amendment. Right through my second and third amendments, by adopting it we come to law today and what we are content with is giving ourselves 30 more days to solve quality than is proposed in this law. Well, I'd like you all to pay attention to these two amendments and the first one I've redefine, please vote on the redefined amendment. Yeah, yeah, when he's put to the vote. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23157	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23158	My smallness to help, to get out of this stalemate position. I'd like to draw attention to something. I've heard of honourable MPs, and I appreciate it when MPs give one amendment, so they see the debate and the possibility to come to a correction of the amendments, to come to a solution. It's, I mean, constructive and it's quality. And what Filip Andrić did, the minister said to which. And what I've been listening to very closely, Prime Minister's President, let me speak to you like this. The Constitutional Court's decision is enforceable. Any other conclusion to make is ridiculous. He can't. It gives the best solutions to discuss here, but the Court's decision is executive and what the President, the chairman, has said, there is no comment. According to how much, gentlemen, as much as the Council of Ministers is responsible for this situation, this Parliament is also responsible. Furthermore, the reality of a relationship, whether to respect a human, here's a respected colleague, Novaković, is that, when he says, constitutional provision whether he now had a constitutional provision of this law, there is. Mr Belkić said in Article 2(2) of the Constitution of BiH, when he said that the protection of human rights under the European Convention must be passed law and even amended the provisions of the Constitution if they are contrary, they are denied. And these are property laws. Furthermore, with regard to the protection of property rights. Please understand, the European Convention says property rights and property are guaranteed. But he says counterweight and public interest. So, I am absolutely in favour of having these people and what was the debate, let's give one to come up with a legal solution, come on, how do we know what was here from the promoters, maybe some phases will be where we might speed up solutions to these sublegal acts that the inflow of funds will be that, but it is important that this Parliament and this council of the minsitarians and this parliament in the final line honour the Constitutional Court's decision, and whoever defends the gentlemen yes, I will always be at our disposal to think slowly about each item here. Here, Amila Omersoftić has proposed concessions, how, where, to create a problem of international nature, who has taken BiH's foreign savings money. Still, let's open the question, when he says that the banks they took for foreign exchanges were giving out loans. And who used those credits to develop and what, by denaunation these loans were devalued and broken liability to someone else. Therefore, there are many solutions but when we came to this stage, I am really always criticizing and giving certain suggestions to improve something. But when we get here, we have to be pragmatic. We cannot at the Council of Ministers, I criticise the prime minister's behaviour of your ministers that, but when it comes to strategic matters, I am fully aware of the responsibility of both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament and myself as MPs. We can't make a circus, that we're being translated into constitutional court by force, and that the people are notifying something of the Constitutional Court, that's who we agreed with the promoters to withdraw for 30 days. I'm calling and giving myself to you as a lawyer, that what's at stake is an improvement in the next text, but I suggest to you, you'd better start the law than to extend this indefinitely. And please one more, chairman, I respect every MP, here you see, you criticize me sometimes, I'm a very sharp rhetoricist, a rhetorical man, but I never insult anyone. Therefore, regardless of my criticism of any behaviour at the Council of Ministers, I cannot accept 49 as an MP that someone has robbed someone. This Council of Ministers, in my opinion, needs to be realistic, hasn't robbed anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23159	Thank you very much. We have the next situation. So, Mr. Špirić and Živković of MPs and Mr. Terzić, are still registered for the word. And please let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23160	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the council, distinguished guests, I am trying to track down what counterpart Selim Bešlagić is about, we are trying to seek a way out of this situation if there is a mood in Parliament. Conscious of the restrictions given by the Constitutional Court, that's what I want to respect and make my own contribution to the second phase, but we met here with what we have and something, and that's a question of whether it could be better, could it be cheaper for the state, could it be better for foreign savings? I have here one budget or account in which the Council of Ministers went with equal half-year annuities of 273,836 million if it goes in 13 years. And I have if a mild rate of economic growth is calculated, a mild rate of economic growth in 10 years, so to save from 50 million converting marks. Is it this state has the ability to give up that 50 million? So please, let's try asking for time and time. I agree, and I don't think that one day, I appreciate that the Council of Ministers wants to find a good solution as we do, but it's wanted for a population that must be satisfied with that solution. We don't need the law to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision. Can we get the strength to at this level, so if there's any business opportunities, if there's any will, stop reading, notify the Constitutional Court. So let's inform the Constitutional Court and ask that within 30 or 60 days, if they've waited for people for 15 years, I think they'll be waiting for two months to come up with a solution that satisfies them, which is optimal in which the state protects its resources. But this, if this is an account that in 10 years if a mild rate of economic growth is included, the state saves 50 million KM compared to the proposal we have, so I can't figure it out. Come on, don't be here, so there's political will, but what I want to see, there's got to be math, and it doesn't matter whose jurisdiction it is. Account, to know what's cheaper, better, if the resources are available. So I think it would be good if we could get our hands on it, but I don't see the College sending a letter to the Constitutional Court, that we've come to an end to plead, to pray on behalf of the population whose problem we're solving, on behalf of the state, that the decision should cost us 2 months or 60 days to get to a good law. Nothing will happen if we sit down with the Council of Ministers again and ask for a better solution than the one offered. I think that what I'm trying to do is help all of us and the Council of Ministers. It's not a problem. It's the easiest thing for me to say, believe me. My statement is negative and that's not a problem, I'm not voting for this law. I want to create a law that I can vote for. But, please, Madam Minister, please, don't spare any trouble, you'll get it today, no, here's the first reading, I suggest that this law will pass another reading, you'll get an unsatisfactory category that demands this law and that's not our goal. So it is the pressure of the Constitutional Court's deadline, but we can look for an active answer. It's our Constitutional Court of State, we respect their decisions. We ask them to stop by while we pass a good law. If this parliament wants 50 to make that decision. Thank you very much. If he won't, my attitude is unfortunately what he was in his first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23161	Thank you, Dr. Živković. Would you like some?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23162	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened a lot to the call here to the Constitutional Court and to the decision of the Commission on Human Rights at the Constitutional Court of BiH, but I would ask all those MPs who have called for that very provision to remember both those provisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court when it comes to pension payments. It means in a place where Z... in BiH and that other decision regarding military housing. So the Constitutional Court decisions, as you all here have said, are not commented but implemented. So we should remember those decisions and that, the only argument here is just the Constitutional Court's decision. If we remember those decisions, then we don't have to talk like that. There should be other arguments here, and if we're going to pass a law that violates the human rights of those same people that we're doing this law of ours again, then I don't know what this job is. And then we better make a law so we don't break human rights again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23163	Thank you very much. Mr. Terzić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23164	I think, Mr. Živković, that he was right and that the reality governments would have to answer how they treat the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This Constitutional Court decision concerns the Council of Ministers and we set an example of how to treat decisions of the Constitutional Court. Both apartments and pensions are the entity's exclusive jurisdiction, and indeed perhaps it should even lead to a parliamentary debate as the entities refer to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. What I'm trying to say is, in answer to the question, are these human rights being violated? This law, this text of the laws that you have before you today and the amendments that have been adopted, has been assessed by the Commission of the Constitutional Court of Human Rights as solutions which are in the spirit of their decision, which means that they provide for the protection of human rights. And if you think it's human right to be deceived, so you promise him that since we're in the election year, that he'll get 200 million more than possible and realistic, then that's how human rights can be exercised, only this council of ministers is talking about real things and real protection of human rights. I think it would be very bad if we could extend the law. For what? Because any prolonging of the law implies that there is no verification in this year, in 2006 but in 2007 because it is fine with you in the law that 6 months after the adoption of the law, the question of verification is resolved. So I suggest that you accept a legal solution like this is in line with all those who need to agree. Everything else is promises without cover. Once again, I'm undermining that 0.5% means 100 million and means an extension from 13 to 17 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23165	Thank you very much. Dr. Kunić. Please, let us bring the end and plead. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23166	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's rational to accept Mr. Špirić's proposal. Clearly there's no agreement on the adoption of this law today. So, however, they require some elements to be done, that is, to look at objective circumstances all of them. So if there's no real possibilities time will show there's no real possibilities. But to look at all the variations. Therefore, it is not useful to discuss further. Put it to a vote and let us accept that position, to delay the vote of this law, to turn to the Constitutional Court to understand the circumstances in which we are and to think, not the Constitutional Court, nothing will happen. Here's Mr. Živković mentioned some decisions weren't made by the entities of one and not the other. You know when decisions were made for an entity that the Constitutional Court met very quickly and took temporary measures on this matter. This time, the Constitutional Court did not take temporary measures. And that should be said in this House. There are, therefore, various arches there as well. I'm sorry to have to say this. Therefore, I don't think there's any concern that we should postpone this and announce to the Constitutional Court and ask for that food, great understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23167	More Mrs. Leho, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23168	The chairman, since Mr. Jure Pelivan is present here, and he was the deputy governor of the National Bank of BiH for Foreign Affairs, was an alpha and omega of foreign exchange business, and I think today is the most competent person to give us an answer, whether the old foreign savings was defacto deposited at the National Bank of Yugoslavia or a reform to protect against negative exchange rates, so that all banks in Yugoslavia do not go to loss when drastic inflation began. It's very important for a vote under this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23169	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23170	He was also at a public hearing. To tell us if she was really an old foreign currency savings defacto or a reform. That's very important. Whether there was a real foreign exchange deposit divisit in banks abroad or the banks got dinar equivalent to that deposit, for covering their placements. It'll solve the main dilemma because there's still a dilemma that the funds were somewhere, so we didn't get them.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23171	Please, we haven't given a word so far and here you can see that we have gentlemen, we've all respected them, they've been patiently listening to us all morning, dignifiedly and together. I, on behalf of the College, can only ask House approval to be given a direct answer to this question by one minute, if Dom agrees?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23172	But this is the expert, please, so. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23173	In the capacity to appoint a representative on a specific matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23174	Yes, a specific question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23175	Please. Jure you go. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23176	Your Honor, I've been working very intensively for the last four years on these foreign savings issues. And to fence myself, of all possible doubts, I didn't charge any fee, nor did I want to charge for these jobs. I've spent my life as a bank employee, and I think I have one big obligation to save money that I've worked with and the banks to help. Responsiblely today, I have collected all data from federal banks in the Federation and Brcko District. I've had excellent cooperation with the RS people on the collection of that data. I'm responsible for telling you that the amount that's embedded in the bill, it's not going to be any bigger, it can only be smaller. It's definitely my apartment and it's going to be smaller, because not all jobs are cleared, especially interest from the wartime when it was credited, etc. in certain areas. Secondly, the vast majority of foreign exchange savings were deposited in the National, former People's Bank of Yugoslavia, so before the war conflict at the end of '91, effective deposited savings, foreign currency money in the National Bank of Yugoslavia amounted to only about 15% of total savings. And there's about that much foreign reserve left at the Central Bank at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. And they were subject to a succession. The vast majority of these funds relate to foreign savings. What's left, uh, as the subject of the distribution of the succession by Annex C of the Framework Agreement on Sucession. So I think we're wasting too much time on this one, and we're doubting the verification process. The verification will be carried out, please, this year or next year. Take it easy. Everything has to come to its place, the paperwork, but we can make preliminary projections today. Therefore, preliminary projections are possible. I've done 7-8 projections. Now, they've been begging me to save, and I'm moved, but they haven't come across enough understanding, but it doesn't matter. I think we can do quality projections and I don't see any reason, here's when it was mentioned earlier. One calculation of equal annuities, the payment of equal half-year annuities, therefore and annually, of 13 years and the other with progressive repayment starting in the first year of the minimum obligation in the first year of the second year of the third year, than those equal annuities in 13 years, so of 10 represents in the first, second, third year a lower obligation in total. The projection should therefore be coordinated with the possible expected economic growth of the country. And we'll come to an agreement easily. But we have to get into that one detailed calculation. I'm sorry to bring it up like that, but I've come up with some data, I don't even know who delivered it to me, these internationally defined factors here, they've created a degree of duty. Well, they're in the Federation's debt as a basis to calculate the percentage, they only include the federal budget, just the Federation's budget and cantons, even though it's an integral part of the Federation's income 53, etc. and others. I mean, we go around a lot sometimes because we don't see the whole thing. Don't put too much pressure on the verification. She'll be executed. And it's quite accurate. No one will be paid 100 marks or 500 marks or other amounts until all of this is verified. But preliminary projections can even be attached to the law. So that's one thing. And secondly, it's really a long time. All other countries, the truth in this session were in a more favourable situation than BiH, it is not disputed but here is the moratorium about the payment, about the interest account for 15 years, and now it still needs to be delayed for so long, I think it can be counted on, certain MPs have talked about it, can count on not only the cash amount to receive, there are other options really to be considered. So I'm looking at it with optimism. You need to sit down a little bit, you need a little real this, on the professional side, and you need to verify these things a little bit,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23177	Which are the deadlines, Mr. Pelivan, in which it can be,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23178	Well, I wouldn't be here on the pay phone, I was doing the verification, the projections, and at the request of a savings officer for five years, so 8 years, 10 years, and 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23179	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23180	So I wouldn't say it now, but I can ask for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23181	I don't think for how many years, someone within whom a precise calculation can be made?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23182	For a firmer attitude about the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23183	Yeah, we don't have time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23184	A month, tops. If we're all going to work and if we're going to make fair access to that obligation, up in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23185	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs. Todorović to pass the Constitutional Court ruling. I want to be a responsible man, as president around this house, just like these men from the Council of Ministers. And we need to know I mean, I understand everything, I'd be ready to make it go away. I'm telling you my personal opinion now. I wasn't involved, to get to 54 more quality calculation and more favourable savings solutions, but if the matter is about legal enforcement and then we didn't do anything, and there's a huge responsibility in this home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23186	I'd like to remind you that we are in second reading and that there are no more new amendments. I therefore warn MPs who wish to submit new amendments in accordance with Article 94(3) can only apply the following conditions: after the debate has started, and the debate has started in the second reading and is almost completed, they can make new amendments only in two cases, when it concerns new aspects which the Commission could not take into account or when two or more proposals are agreed on. I don't see any new amendments. The amendments they received on the tables, which are lined up in order for the members they were invested in in front of the House. As far as the Constitutional Court's decision is concerned, I want to tell you next. The Constitutional Court's decision was published in the Official Messenger and it is completely clear and decadent. Not to mention the disposition of the decision. So there's a discrepancy about what's going off, what's being abolished. So parts of the RS law relating to the old foreign savings, the Federation also in the section relating to old foreign savings and the Brcko District of BiH Act, which is the very name of the Law on the regulation of the issue of old foreign savings. So it doesn't exist anymore. The decision reads this -- it requires the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to pass legislation within 3 months of the date of publication of this decision in the Official Messenger of BiH to regulate the issue of payment of the old foreign currency savings. The deadline expires 17 in the morning, as the decision was published means 16 January 2006. I am obliged to say this - according to the rules of the Court of Justice, paragraph 74, I am sorry if I am harassing you and I think it is good for me to hear it once and for all, which is published in the 'Official Messenger' number 60 of 2005, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding and must be respected by every natural and legal person. All authorities shall, within their jurisdiction, establish the Constitution and the law under their established constitutional laws as they implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, etc. And now not to be, not to read all the provisions, not to harass you. In the event of a failure or delay in the execution or notification of the Constitutional Court of the measures taken, the Constitutional Court shall adopt a decision establishing that the Constitutional Court’s decision has not been implemented, or may determine the way in which the decision is to be carried out. This solution shall be delivered to the competent prosecutor, or to another authority responsible for the enforcement designated by the Constitutional Court. This solution shall be delivered to the Attorney-General. So, I want to tell you that I really respect all the debate that's been conducted, but I think these are the legal things that need to be known which, which should be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23187	I thank Mrs. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23188	Let's get some more people out of here. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23189	Please, Mr. Živković, I didn't give you my word. We've closed the debate. If you have something about what Mrs. Todorović said. Here you go. I'm sorry, but I think it's because of the other MPs who are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23190	Mr. President, I would like to ask Mrs. Branka, Secretary of Parliament, in a word that she warned us about the Court's decision and you asked her to read it, to tell us here then if we vote here against this law knowingly violating that Constitutional Court decision. Do we have any discrepancies about the sophistication, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23191	No, you can't answer for your voice. Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23192	This is an interesting question. It's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23193	Could you answer that? Please, here's when I ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23194	Here, if you have any comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23195	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23196	Why are you warning me?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23197	He's reading, he's just reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23198	Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23199	I don't think I'm a boring secretary, but I do have some things to say. I don't know how the Constitutional Court will react. At 17 a.m., we should have some kind of law to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. I'm sorry, I don't know what the Constitutional Court will do. I'd like to ask the Constitutional Court if you'd do anything to us if we're prolonging in a month to gain quality, but that's what we need to ask the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23200	Let's ask. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23201	Well, that's what we're looking for. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23202	I'm asking you to set a 15-minute recess and I'm asking the presidents of the clubs to come. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. [[PAUZA]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23203	Ladies and gentlemen of the break, we have tried to find a compromise and a way out of this situation by no longer discussing matters relating to the Constitutional Court, etc. Our proposal is to accept Mr Filip Andrić's amendment, Amendment number I, which reads - that they also account for outstanding interest according to the contracts referred to in Article 1(1) after 1.1.1992 is made until the same date and from the same date until the entry into force of this law, a new interest account shall be made at 0.5%. We think that by accepting this amendment there are conditions to adopt the law, which is most important at this point, but let me just say one more thing, given that it is also in the armpits, and so far a lot of hearings about verification and setting up, demands are being made, questions are being raised whether to verify it. So the savings were guaranteed by the former state. And in every book, it was nice to say in the end that the state guarantees savings. The country has fallen apart. There's nothing to save. Now this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this, based on this law, says we guarantee it. But in order to know what we guarantee we have to carry out the verification and let no one think that we can ad hoc accept that we guarantee something that we haven't established the verification. That's where the space on that verification will be opened, and then we'll bring this amendment to Mr. Filip Andrić's economics as well. I know there are a lot of people in this room and in Bosnia and Herzegovina who don't like this attitude, but I say it's the only possible and correct attitude. The state has to verify every single case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23204	Thank you very much. We heard the proposal's opinion. I therefore propose that we make a statement on the amendments and on the Law as a whole, because these are the obligations we have under the Constitutional Court's decision. If Mr. Špirić insists I'll put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23205	I'm asking you to put it on. If he gets the support he gets, if he doesn't get it. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23206	But I think we're all responsible people and we know what we have on the table.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23207	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23208	To postpone a month to ask the Constitutional Court, Špirić suggests.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23209	So I'm putting Mr. Špirić's proposal on a plea. Vote now. - The proposal doesn't have a majority. We're moving on to an amendment statement. We have heard the Council of Ministers' position on what is acceptable to them from the Amanians. Please. I'm asking the agents to leave the meeting to the College, and they're doing their part of the job. I think it's a fair offer, because I respect you. Let's go first to the amendment and Mr. Nikola Špirić. I'm sorry. It's not clear here to Mr. Novaković, so first we're going to the amendment of Mr. Novaković who is
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23210	Proposed to delete Amendment II of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23211	I ask the MPs to plead on this amendment. Get a review of the amendment and we'll take it in a row. Vote on Mr. Novaković's first amendment. Vote now. Take the amendments and let's go again. I won't repeat the vote. It means Mr. Novaković's amendment to delete Amendment II of the Commission. Vote now. - The amendment doesn't have a general majority. Let's move on. The amendment and Mr. Nikola Špirić. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. We move on to the amendment and Mrs. LJiljana Milićević. Vote now. - This amendment wasn't accepted either, 10 for, 19 against. 58 We move to Amendment II of Mr Nikola Špirić. Vote now. - For 11, 17 against. This amendment has not been accepted either. The amendment and Mrs. ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23212	Mr. Chairman, I would withdraw my amendment given that Mr. Andrić's accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23213	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. We move on to the amendment and Mr Filip Andrić, which was accepted by the Council of Ministers. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - So without a vote against, with 21 for, enough entity majority, Mr. Filip Andrić's amendment was accepted. We move on to Amendment III submitted by Mr Nikola Špirić. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - He doesn't have enough. We're moving on to amendment and Mr. Momčilo Novaković. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - And this amendment doesn't have the necessary majority. We are moving on to Amendment ii of Momčilo Novaković. Please plead. Vote now. - And this amendment didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment IV of Mr. Nikola Špirić. Please plead. Vote now. _________(?) Can we do it again? You can do anything. Just ask for another vote. So we're looking for a re-election. You're looking. 59 Please re-enact Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment. Please vote for the MPs now. /connection to abort/ Please ask the MPs to plead. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority. We move on to Amendment II of Mr. Filip Andrić. Now I'm going to play a little Nikola, when the important amendment is he knows how to suggest they read it. Please state Mr. Filip Andrić's amendment. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23215	This is the most important amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23216	Reenactment. Okay. Thank you very much. I mean, I thought it was actually me. I'm moving on to Amendment V of Mr. Nikola Špirić. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. Is it a dispute? Mr. Sipović, please. I ask the MPs to declare Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment again. Vote now. - Here and after the re-voting means he doesn't have a majority. We move on to amendment VI of Mr. Nikola Špirić. Make a statement. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority. We move on to Amendment VII of Mr. Nikola Špirić. Please plead. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority either. We're moving on to Amendment II of Mrs. ruža Sopta. Are you staying with the amendment? I ask the MPs to plead on this amendment. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority. We move on to Amendment VIII of Mr. Nikola Špirić. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority either. 60 We move to Amendment III of Mr. Filip Andrić. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. - So the amendment doesn't have enough majority. We move on to Amendment II, Mrs. Milićević. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - He doesn't need a majority. We're moving on to Amendment III of Mrs. Sopta. Stand by. Vote now. - So he doesn't have a general majority. We move to amendment IX of Mr. Nikola Špirić. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. We move on to Amendment III Ljiljana Milićević. Representatives, please prepare. Vote now. - He doesn't have most. We're moving on to Amendment X of Mr. Špirić. Stand by. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. We move on to Amendment IV Ljiljana Milićević. Stand by. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. We have two more amendments. Amendment XI to Mr Špirić. Stand by. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. And the last amendment, Amendment IV to Mr. Filip Andrić. Stand by. Vote now. - He doesn't have a general majority. We're exhausted, we're past the amendment statement. 61 We move to a statement on the Law, on verification and settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings in the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. - So the law has a general majority. No entity. There's no consent. We're going to the College now to the second round of pleas. It's the ones who are against it. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - So I find that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law on the verification and settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign currency savings. I, who today, have been involved all day in the work on this law, as well as representatives of the Savings Association, also thank the representatives of the Council of Ministers and we move on to the next item of the agenda, that is, Ad.4. Proposal for a vote on non-confidential Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina I'll remind you. The SPRS plus independent joint club, MPs, submitted an initiative to vote on mistrust by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers on 7.3. this year. You got the initiative. The initiative was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House and was included in the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope you are familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which treat the issue of a vote of mistrust. I'll remind you only of articles 119 and 120. Rules of Procedure. In Article 119, paragraph 1 states that each of the applicants has the right to explain at the House session a proposal for a non-confidential vote to the Council of Ministers, and in paragraph 2, it is said that the Council of Ministers has the right to respond and state its position after which a general debate is opened. Article 120(1) states - after the discussion of the non-confidential proposal is put to the vote. The second paragraph of this Article also states if the proposal is not adopted may be voted on by other initiatives related to this proposal. Here it was in terms of procedures and reminders. I'm opening a crack. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23218	Ladies and gentlemen, I've called to try to remove any doubts about and speculation about whether it's 62.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23219	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23220	whether a session was deliberately scheduled at a time when a number of MPs between them and the one who launched this initiative are justly absent. So, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I would suggest to this Parliament that you do not plead today. We are ready and we know that today by voting on a request for confidence in a vote of confidence can go without any problem in favour of the Council of Ministers, but we do not want to reopen them, as is a good old custom in our political life to reopen speculation and to debate again for days whether someone here has committed a fraud or not. My council of ministers and I are personally interested in what this Parliament thinks of us, whether we have support for our work or not, and it is not only a matter of staying in our positions, but it is a matter of whether Parliament really supports the projects that we are conducting and whether it is behind the European orientation of this council of ministers. Since there are no 11 or 12 MPs, my proposal is, and if you want to ask you not to plead today, we are not actually holding any debate, but to leave it for the 24th session when all MPs will certainly be because they will be discussing constitutional amendments in a manner that would be immediately in the beginning to hold discussions on constitutional amendments and voting on the confidence of the Council of Ministers. Well, here's what you want to do. The right to tell you that any of our initiatives come to a very negative reaction from
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23221	Well, it's not like that. We took it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23222	Okay, that's why we want Parliament to be complete when it comes to voting on us, not to be attributed to us as we go through raindrops. As far as we're concerned, our mandates are at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23223	Thank you, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23224	That doesn't mean I resigned.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23225	Like this. Dr. Crescent. He's a Lagumdžija. Kunić, then Mr. Potočnik. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23226	What, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23227	Nothing. Go ahead, sir. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23228	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. I thank the chairman. I must admit that I am pleasantly surprised after Prime Minister Terzić, not entirely. In fact, I think this is very correct on his part as he suggests, because even to be precise today, he has a better chance of getting support today than next time. And that's why I think even more, I appreciate this move that it does, because in the end it's quite understandable that a man wants to know whether or not he has any support in this House. So I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman, if you said you didn't care, then really don't hold a session of the 24th and 25th terms to discuss this first and then the amendments, because as far as I'm concerned, it's absolutely unacceptable. The 25th is a session that is primarily dedicated to amendments, and you, if you want to be correct until the end, or the 26th session, I don't think I know anyway, but so a session that's next. And if you want to be right to the end, I'm offering you, I suggest we discuss at the session where you give us what you owe us, and that's a report from three months ago. And it's just going to be a nice opportunity to discuss the content, not this one. And there you go, so, but I don't insist you tie it to the VAT. Bog forbid. It's not my idea to tie it to the VAT, but I insist you allow Mr. Chairman, I don't accept the next session of the 25th starting with this and then the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23229	I only want to say in the name of the College that the College will take care of all the circumstances and of course that the importance of one and the other topics will be focused and we will find ways to satisfy one, means that we have a debate on this initiative without it being parallel when the debate on the Constitution is. If that pleases you, then let's try to be rational. But I'm not taking anyone's word away. Mr. Kunić. So, I'm asking to make a statement about Mr. Terzić's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23230	President-in-Office, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think this is a very correct one move, one pragmatic, wise not to say brave is and that it is in such a way that it should actually be some form for the future, for the future work of the Council of Ministers and some other institutions. So to undergo a check, but in this way although Mr. Lagumdžija says today are a far greater chance, but I don't think the odds are much worse even next time, but I think I thank Mr. Terzić for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23231	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23232	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a waste of time and energy six months before the elections I would say by voting confidence or by not trusting the Council of Ministers, or Terzić. Practically, when you look at it and if the non-trust was voted, the technical mandate would probably last until the end of this term. 64 I therefore think it would be good to discuss with Mr Gligorić on this subject and not make another instability in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because summer and summer leave are coming and all this is more expensive than the purpose of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23233	Thank you very much. I ask as well because we have been appointed by the President of the Council. Here you go. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23234	Here's the chairman, I'll be very brief. I accept the prime minister's proposal and support distinguished colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija's MP that there is no way to discuss this issue at 25th during the adoption of the amendment. I mean, it would really be unserious. So you see in this aspect the president that I was very, very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23235	Thank you very much. Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go. Please, give us some respect. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we adopted today's agenda. I think this assembly of Parliament has full capacity. I think the ratio of forces that would possibly support or not support is not, will not change even when we're all compared to the current state. I personally think, so I'm expressing my position here and I think we should congratulate the Prime Minister on this move. I congratulate Adnan on this, and I'm not surprised at his performance at all. He knew he'd react that way, and I think we should approach the vote so we don't stall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23237	Okay. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We have a request and a proposal from Mr Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers to postpone the debate on this issue and the position of the College to ensure a debate, a quality debate on this initiative. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - So 19 votes for, 6 against, a sufficient entity majority. A request has been accepted to postpone the statement on this initiative. 65 We move to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure You've got the material. It was delivered to the house on the 21st of the month. I remind you this is about a law that was provisionally declared by the High Representative. I therefore consider it justified for this procedure. Anybody want one? Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23239	The legal question arises whether it is possible to adopt the law like this. I know about the law enforcement institute, but I don't know about the law enforcement institute that someone's already passed. And then you have one very unfortunate legal provision that makes your law look retroactive. The laws don't usually work retroactively. By taking over the law, you avoid that formula. I don't think so, I'm saying I don't mind it, but I'm talking about legal correctness as it is legally correct. So if the law is passed, then it would have to be the text of a law that's being passed, or the law being passed. I think it's a more correct way of not saying it's more legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23240	Thank you very much. I Kunić. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to make a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this proposal for a law adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Vote now. - Request accepted. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - The law was passed, enough general and entity majority. Moving to point six, that's ad.6. Proposal for an amendment to the Law on Customs Tariffs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a hasty procedure, Špirić to Article 104 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina Rules of Procedure On 22.3., Col. Špirić submitted this draft law requiring consideration under Article 104. You've got the material. 66 I am opening a debate on the motion. There isn't. So we're only pleading to the procedure. I'm asking the MPs to plead. Vote now. - So we unanimously adopted this request by MP Nikola Špirić to consider the amendment and amendments to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Tariff Act in accordance with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's the rules of procedure at home. Moving to the seventh point, that's Ad.7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Classification of Activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23245	I would have been within the deadline to write repairs to this law, but I simply did not know in Article 1(2) the last word that means. I couldn't say that she was erasing herself without putting on a word, because I don't know what this word means. In my explanation, I've come across a similar word several times, but I still don't know what that means. So this is where it says "djbine," and this is where it says "djdvabe" on "dajbine" and so on. I got the truth in Croatian, but I tried to find it in the dictionary. I didn't find it anywhere. It's written up next to the "h" sign, and that's proof that it's in Croatian, but I really don't know what that means. I'd like to ask the Proposer to explain to me what this means, this word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23246	Okay. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. Is there anyone on behalf of the promoter? Mr. Bojan zec, come in. Just for a little patience to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23247	Comparing the text in Serbian, it's on the Cyrillic, and it's on my datebook. And he doesn't know what that means. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23248	He just doesn't ask unlike you. Any further requests for a hearing on this? Do you want to explain yourself? Okay. I'll have to conclude the debate. I've been waiting for the proposer. I'm closing the debate. She was in good faith, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23249	It's not my first time the Council of Ministers has ignored my questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23250	We can't say, here's to go get the Secretary-General, but I think so. I will conclude the debate, however, and I propose that we declare this law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. - With 17 votes in, four against, two abstentions, we've accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23251	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23252	We don't have a third member of the College and we'll agree and send you a report within the business period so we can move on to the next item of the agenda and that's the tenth Ad.10. Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Commission Report on Finance and Budget on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act (Proposer Muhamed Moranjkić) At the 76th session, the Commission's Finance and Budget Report did not accept the principles of this legislative proposal or was given an entity majority. The College agreed on the Commission's report. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform the House that the Commission's report has been adopted and that the proposal for this law has fallen, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax proposed by Mr Moranjkić. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. Proposal for a Decision establishing a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23255	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, you see Article 3 of this Decision, attitude 2, says – in the event of the inability to elect representatives of national minorities in a manner explained in the position of the first member of the decision, the Parliamentary Assembly may appoint representatives of national minorities on its own initiative. Please, the sentence in paragraph 1 says that at the Commission's proposal for human rights both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly have chosen this commission. I do not understand why the Commission does not propose to Parliament and this member, but we must do so on our own initiative as Parliament. I guess it's about the position where out of the 17 national minorities, some national minority shows no interest and suggests no one. In that situation, we as Parliament should find someone. I think that the Commission should also propose in that variant, so that it consults and proposes to Parliament. Otherwise, we would have come to a very illogical position that we in Parliament, MPs are now proposing at random someone from a Ukrainian minority. Po, without any consultation, because we wouldn't have any consultation. So, I believe that it is necessary to amend this Article 3 and that it should read – in the event of the inability to elect representatives of national minorities in a manner explained in the position of the first member of this decision, the Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly will appoint representatives of national minorities on a proposal from the Commission. So, again, the Commission, and the Commission will then self-initiately seek the representative of that minority and consult, etc. Therefore, this is an observation practically to Article 3 to amend Article 2 to amend the text of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23256	I thank Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here's the preactions. We can see that the suggestion is absolutely in place. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23257	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I don't know what that means? Minority peoples. Probably meant national minorities. I think it's a huge mistake. It says the same thing in Serbian.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23258	Okay. Do you have anything else, Mr. Zorić? Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Huskić, then Mrs. Leho. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23259	This sentence, read by Mr Zorić – experts, the delegated experts in Article 2 of this article can be of minority order. That's what it says about me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23260	So it's a different text. But it means different writing here, at your place, at Zorić's, with the others. You need to standardize the text and be of the minority order. Okay. Is there more debate? Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23261	I think someone in the technical service was smart enough to give us all three copies, so all the members of Parliament got in all three languages. This is exactly the kind of thing. And I don't think this is the first time, and it's really a shame that we get here and we have to turn into cops and control the versions, the ones, the texts in different languages. I'm holding and I think this should be returned to prepare properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23262	Is there more? Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23263	Since I'm the chairman of this committee, I'd just like a few clarifications. So I think this is acceptable what Mr. Novaković was talking about. As far as this second part is concerned, it's obvious that these are different translations in Bosnian we have from the minority order, and this is obviously put here by the error of minority nations. I mean, obviously it's not standing. I ask you not to delay making this decision, since we already broke this deadline on January 31st, and we should therefore, under the National Minorities Act, make this decision and go into implementation. So we're going to coordinate to bring it in. Obviously, then, that technical service has made any mistakes in the translation, do not let us now deepen the problem and that of national minorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23264	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23265	I don't think it's correct to write in any language or minority. Because there isn't, I'm just reading there's nowhere to be called a minority in further text. So you need the explicits to write you or worse in the first mention of the national minority can be written in the further text of minorities. For the record, it doesn't say anything. 71 So that translation, or that text, is not good. I need to fix this, and I don't know how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23266	Is there more? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am meant for us to adopt this decision today, and for all of these suggestions to be accepted by Mr Zorić and Novaković, install and clarify the text and task the Commission to carry out the final editorial of the text, but not to delay further decision-making. Can you accept this proposal? I ask the MPs to then declare on the decision to set up a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these conclusions I have proposed. Stand by. Vote now. - So we unanimously accepted this decision to establish a Council of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. Moving to the 12th point, that's Ad.12. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period 01/07 to 31 December last year You've reached the report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking the MPs to come forward with this report. Vote now. - We unanimously accepted the Management Commission's report. Thank you very much. We're going to the 13th point, that's Ad.13. Appointment of members of the Commission for the selection of the Chief Auditor and the Vice Chief Auditor
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may not be common, but I think the Extended College could have proposed to Mrs Milićević instead of Mr Gligorić, given the fact of her profession and, above all, long-term work in banking to help this investigative commission. So, I, if it's okay with you, wouldn't be a problem, of course, but I think it's a better idea for this committee. Thank you. - 73
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23272	Any more additions, suggestions, changes? There isn't. I propose that we accept this suggestion from Mr. Momčilo Novaković and that in the commission to determine foreign currency savings citizens of BH deposited bank accounts by 31.34.'92. be elected – Mr Izet Hadžić, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević, Mr Mehmed Suljkanović, Mrs Ruža Sopta, Mrs Dušanka Majkić and Mr Filip Andrić. Do you accept this proposal? Please plead. Vote now. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23273	I'm sorry, I started before, but what's this commission actually gonna do? Because he's just saying about the deposited foreign savings in the law. What's he gonna do about it? I'd like to know. Because that confused me at the first time we voted on this. Is it supposed to be found where it was placed, who spent it? What's that? However, there should be little explanation of what is meant by this, so that we too expect, we know what we will expect from such a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23274	So we ended this, but here in Article 2 of the conclusion that he made and means the commission's mission to determine where the citizens' foreign currency ended up in accounts. Not how they are, but where they ended up and that's 3.3.92. A year. Well, we'll see if the commission traced that way. Thank you very much. We're going to the 16th, that's the last item on the agenda, that's Ad.16. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the arrangement of mutual property legal relations and under (b) Treaty amending and supplementing the Treaty on Development Credit – Technical Assistance in the field of social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development The Foreign Affairs Commission held a meeting yesterday. She had this on the agenda. She gave a positive report, thus informing you that this point is under b) that the members of the Commission at that session are seeking further explanation of the competent and responsible persons from both entities and that this argument was given yesterday and that it was accepted by the members of the Commission, so that the Commission gave a positive consent to ratification. Any questions? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we say both contracts together. 74 I ask the MPs to vote. Vote now. - I konstatirati that we unanimously agreed on ratification, so under (a) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on the arrangement of mutual property legal relations and under (b) the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Development Loan – The Technical Assistance Project in the area of social security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Please wait for more. Please, I'm 27 here, and that's why I worked. We have a quorum. He's over 22. I counted. Now we have a physical quorum. We have a quorum. Total for 21. Well, not everyone has to vote. We have a quorum I counted, I preside and count and I see we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23276	not understood is not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23277	Thank you very much. Please. They have two more notes. So the next session dedicated to constitutional reforms will be held on 25.4., and this second session will be held when and the way we will organise the work and trust of the Council of Ministers, you will be subsequently informed by the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23278	We're not okay with the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23279	Please, come on. Sit in your seats. I counted 23 in the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23280	Please, let me get this straight. No, no, this score is not good, it certainly doesn't accept the card.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23281	Twenty-three is in the hall. Well, that quorum. Well, the quorum is here. I don't know what the problem is. Well, it didn't take it, but. Is this Vlatka you've been for? Well, then 22 votes, all for it. Here. So don't make a problem out of when the woman's here and she's voting. I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23282	So he can vote yes, no or no. He can't not vote. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2006-04-13-1.u23283	Here's the vote. If it's a technical matter, it's not an organic matter. And we're fixing the technical thing. Please repeat my statement on point 16. I'm asking the MPs to accept this intervention. Get the charts, and I'd like the services to count the MPs. Who's to give consent to ratification? Would you count it, please? Does anyone mind? Restraint? I'm being unanimous. And at 5:00 and 17 minutes, I'm closing the 77th session of the House of Representatives.
