ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6447	Military delegates, respected guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you and open the 63rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 delegates present at today's session. Of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Delegate Halid Genjac justified his absence and announced his arrival during the session. For the 63rd session, I propose the following amended and updated agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 62nd session of the House of Peoples, 3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law of 15.09.2006. 4. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Alignment of Obligations under the account of the old foreign exchange savings under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law supplementing the BiH Market Control Act following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, first reading, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, first reading by the Council of Ministers, 10. Proposal for an e-signature bill, first reading, 11. BiH Human Rights Omdusmen's Special Report on Appeals related to the length of the proceedings, 12. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level for the 2002-2006 term, 2 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Project Agreement-Air Traffic Management Project between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, the Directorate for Civil Aviation of BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Air Traffic Management Project, 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of a person whose stay is illegal, I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. I give my word to Mr. Spajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6449	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and the others present in this room, I welcome all present. The Croatian Club of Representatives shall have an objection to the agenda, i.e. better say point 6 which is formulated as it is, means the request of the House of Representatives to consider the amendment and addition of the Law of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account pursuant to the expeditious procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The Croatian Club of Representatives proposes that this point be followed by a hasty procedure in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, since this law has already been passed at the conclusion of the House and in this mandate that this law is to be rounded up and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6450	Thank you, Koelgi Spajić. Mr. Radovanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6451	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the club of delegates from the Serb people, given that the proposed agenda differs greatly from the one we received with the call for the session, we are looking for a half-hour break to see, agreeing with this proposal on changing the agenda. A half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6452	Thank you. I'm giving a half-hour break at the request of the Serbian People's Club. [[PAUZA]] Since it was your break at the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6454	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's anything to explain because I've said in motion what's actually the reason for the break, given the expansion and the request for the agenda, that was the reason and we can start with the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6455	I thank Mr. Radovanović. So, I read the agenda. We have one proposal, Mr Ante Spajić's proposal, head of the Croatian Representatives' Club, in 3 consultations with the Home Secretary, we have concluded that Mr Ante Spajić's proposal cannot be respected because he is not an authorised proponent of this law and so I cannot even put him on the stand. So, to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6456	So, I have to react, I welcome all those present who follow our work, react to this explanation of not saying about the proposal of the Croatian Representatives' Club. In fact, here we have suggested that, in the procedural sense, point 6 be considered differently. It is a request from the House to establish the request of the House of Representatives, that this law, which treats old foreign currency savings at today's session, should therefore be laid down in the procedure to be considered in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. It's a request from the House of Representatives for the procedure. Please, we have the right not to change procedure, decide otherwise. Our rights in this home as the second equal home, far greater and we have the right to change the law, to act in amendment. So, change the law that passed in the House of Representatives. This is not about changing the legal provision of any, but it is about the request of the House of Representatives that we, by procedure, should, in short procedure, not by haste procedure, not by procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the 100th when we are discussing this, without amendments to this, and that is what we want to be accepted in the House of Representatives under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, today without debate and in identical form we have this law today. Because if he doesn't accept this home, then we leave space to leave this bill and its fate to a new congregation that will happen I don't know when or which will happen I don't know how. So perhaps it would be wise, it would be wise because of hundreds of thousands of people who expect this law to be passed, and then in the next term they will approach, not too satisfied, so all those who expect this, the implementation of this law, expect to improve this text in the next steps. So, I can't accept if the chairman can listen to my word until the end, I'll be done very soon. I cannot accept the explanation that you have made it clear that we do not agree to a change in the procedure for the debate on this proposal. We have in our Rules of Procedure Article 131. The Rules of Procedure speak of self-regulatory. So, regulation of internal relations within the House. We can reach a conclusion, a conclusion in which we will declare ourselves and say this law, under paragraph 6, will be discussed today in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure without amendments. The bottom line is, it's worth this point and it's worth today, and we've solved the problem. So we're getting out of that condition that you told us. So, not that we can't change the application for procedure, but we can change the law. This is about procedure. The Croatian MPs' club wants this law to end today in a parliamentary procedure with Article 100 when debated, so according to Article 100, to adopt and have today in the same form of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6457	I thank Koelgi Filipović, Mr Radovanović, please. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6458	I can even briefly clarify this position of the Club of Serbian Delegates and our view is that we can't really change the proposal of a pronoun, and that's what this is all about. The promoter is a House of Representatives and he's looking for this procedure. We can accept her or refuse her. It's not a problem. We can decide that, but if we were to change something that someone else suggested, a proposal to change, I don't think we could change. We can decide on a proposal but we can't change the proposal. So we can decide about this proposal, we can decide it, it's our right to speak of. We can accept it or reject it. But to change the proposal, I don't think we can do that, and this is a proposal from the House of Representatives for Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6459	I thank my colleague Radovanović. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6460	I would just remind an important colleague Radovanović that so far we have had, I can't say 10 but more than 10 or 20 even cases when we had in the proposal to bring something by haste procedure according to the article, so the Rules of Procedure of the 100th, so we said, let it go to regular procedure. So, we, just a little bit, didn't accept that something was going on in article 100, so we said it was going on a regular procedure. So, we changed the proposal, the proposal. So that came from the Council of Ministers. I'm telling you, it's possible for business to change the proposal for a procedure that came from the House of Representatives because we can change the law. If we can change the law and certain provisions of the law, why can't we change the procedure? I'm sorry, you can't convince me because I know I'm 100% right when I say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6461	I would ask my colleague Filipović to tell us the place and at what law we did it, what he claims. First of all, I think that such free debates should be followed by some fact. There's no such thing as Mr. Filipović, it doesn't exist. I'd like it here if you remember it exists to tell where.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6462	Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6463	Mr. Chairman, I agree with what Mr. Pamuk said. We have not changed the procedure but have pleaded on the procedure of business it has been changed and, in this case, if we refuse and vote against Article 99, it will go to regular procedure. So that's the way to go, but we haven't changed the procedure. So we pleaded for procedure and against procedure and business, depending on how we pleaded, was further procedure. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6464	So this is about two problems or two questions. One thing we've done so far is work in situations like this. And I don't remember ever changing procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6465	We refused the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6466	That we refused, but we didn't change. And so if we refuse to cut it short, then it's going to be regular and that's clear. However, this request by Mr Spajić, or the Croatian People's Club, is based on its basis, can therefore be done in accordance with our Rules of Procedure Articles 130 and 131. I don't know if I should read them. Here I will briefly read this 130th that says – The dom can, on the proposal of any member at any time, supplement this Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Constitution of BiH. So it's possible that we're going to say right now that we're going to do it for this occasion, for this need in a very hard way. If it's up to us to decide for ourselves. If we don't make up our mind, then we're doing it the way we've done it by now. 131st just explains it further, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6467	I welcome you all. I thought the same thing Mr. Jukić said, so there's no need. The only problem here is that it seems to me whether we are going to or not to go to the procedure to take down at least once today, even in our term, this story that has unfortunately been going on for 11 years. Are we going to do this law today or are we not going to leave it to someone else to solve it? We have the possibility of each other. It's up to us to choose. I don't need to explain any further because my colleague Jukić said what I was going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6468	Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6469	I totally agree with Mr. Jukić, but then this loan should go the other way, which means it's going to formulate itself as a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. Only in that direction, if we go in that direction, then this proposal, the request goes to amend the Rules of Procedure, so that we make a statement about it and then we do this further in the amended Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6470	Mr. Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6471	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests, I fully agree with Mr Radovanović, what he said on two occasions. I do not agree with you, Mr Filipović, absolutely, nor with you, Mr Jukić. 6 I'm here, I've talked x times. I voted against many things, where the Constitution and the law are broken. Wherever the Constitution broke, I voted against the law because I swore to this parliament when I took an oath that I would respect the first Constitution of BiH and all the laws. And this is past what is proposed today, past the Rules of Procedure, 100% past the Rules of Procedure. You said Mr. Jukić, okay, so let's put the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the agenda first, and let's adopt an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which he says can be done at any moment, and then we can plead. But is that what we need to do today? Yes, I know that foreign savings demands are absolutely justified in all of this, but there's one more thing. I got this material today. And now look, Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, and I don't know how many. So the number changes, article 1 is deleted, it's deleted, it's deleted, I should do it now, it's taken me two days to have next to me and the text of the law and all of this so I can compare and see what's what. What's changing, what's going on, and like this, I can in principle and globally support the demands of old foreign currency savings. But individually, all of this, what's changing, what's being complemented, is impossible for me to plead now, and I absolutely support that it remains a shortened procedure so that I can look at it, so maybe I'll make some amendments that will further improve this text of the law and that will further benefit maybe foreign savings. Don't laugh. Don't laugh, it's really like that. I support, please don't, we'll talk about it a lot, I support everything, a complete social category and all their demands that come anywhere. And I've always supported all those people, ordinary people and citizens whose demands came anywhere or there to the entity assembly or here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6472	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6473	It is not my practice to replicate, however, I will have to do a little bit here to Mr. Pajić, when he said he was in line with all the laws of the Constitution and procedures. I conclude that I explicitly mean that I and Mr Filipović are not. And I say I am. That's how it can be concluded, I said. That I am also to respect both the Constitution and all the laws and our Rules of Procedure. And exactly what our Rules of Procedure says I just read. So, to conclude this can be arranged to be valid, for this occasion and this session. And it's not a permanent change, it's not a rule that applies if we, if there isn't a part of the Rules of Procedure, means we're going to settle for this session for this case today, we're still applying the Rules of Procedure that's been published and that's the one in our hands, the bags, the table, etc. Just a little clarification, what does this mean if it went this way. It is, therefore, not a change in the Rules of Procedure which remains permanently valid, but a conclusion for this occasion, for today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6474	Mr. Čengić, Mr. Filipović. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6475	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international organisation, media and others, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you, to say the following. We are on this issue, so on the rate of the foreign savings issue as I recall we had a very extensive debate, at one of the House sessions, maybe less than a year ago. I would have been very pleased if we had solved this question by now. I'd be very glad if we had a chance to discuss not only today but to resolve this issue. And in that part, I don't have any dills. However, the fact is that the procedure was not proposed by us, but by the House of Representatives. It would be very good if it were the House of Representatives, I think so, that the House of Representatives proposed by the procedure of Article 100. As it wasn't, so I still think it would be a good idea to settle this issue today. However, I am not in favour of changing the Rules of Procedure because this is a very serious issue of changing the Rules of Procedure, and I am not in this interpretation that I accept and I fully understand and I agree with Mr Velimir and Mr Ilija, in order that this, in conclusion, would be an interpretation or a change of Rules of Procedure for this purpose. As important as this issue is, I still think we should stay within the frameworks, within the frameworks already prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and it would not be good for us to change the Rules of Procedure for the needs of this one law. So in that sense, I think it would be a good idea to bring this debate to an end in a way that we respect the current procedures that apply to this case in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6476	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6477	Thank you very much. So, I heard, I listened very carefully to what Mr. Pajić and Radovanović and Mr. Jukić said, and especially now Mr. Čengić. So now I'm going to, I'm going to answer and then I'm going to cheat on my reporting not this. So there is only one thing here, whether or not we will have passed this law today in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I mentioned the possibility of a business that might be possible. If someone got it wrong, so we've had the procedures we've been refusing so far. Here it is indeed necessary, therefore, that the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jukić, has read, I will not read this article 130th but that this is Section IV which speaks of internal regulation. I mentioned internal regulation, we can use this, using the Rules of Procedure, and that means really making a conclusion just for this law, just today and only for this case. If we want to say, point 6, we're considering Article 100, and we're going to have it today, that law we're going to have. If there is no political will in this House, then it is this, don't touch the Rules of Procedure, let it go according to the existing procedures, and then it is under Article 99, as proposed by the House of Representatives. That is why we have reacted, that this law has been passed and that we end it procedurally in the Parliamentary Assembly, that after today's session it can be published and that it can practically live. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6478	Here, I'll say a few words. I really want as chairman at this point in this house, that I don't think this dilemma is right whether or not we're going to do it. I think there's a dilemma here whether or not we can comply with the current Rules of Procedure to bring this along. I am deeply convinced that there is a will to resolve the issue of old foreign savings but first of all, this is not a simple question, as it stands there that, by Article 100, simple issues can be solved, simple problems. So that's where we have to agree that it's really not easy and now it would be illusory to expect that delegates are just and that we can do business without our interventions to declare themselves about this law. Thank you. No more reports. So, I have consulted the Secretary of the dom, and here I consider my interpretation, so that we cannot include this proposal by Mr. Spajić and we cannot plead with him and I will put it to the vote. So, the draft agenda as I read it at the beginning of this session. So you can vote. Now. Wait a minute, so it's 7, no, the collapsing of the College, no agenda adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6479	There was no entity majority. Wait a minute, how much did it vote? 13, no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6480	No. 14 voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6481	Yes, yes, 13 voted, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6482	14 voted
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6483	From the Federation, there is no entity majority, consent of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6484	I suggest that here, Spajić consults whether we can give this up, if there is no political will, to reach a conclusion then it is illusory and that maybe, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6485	Ten minutes break. [[PAUZA]] ...respected guests, esteemed journalists, here's today's session that was supposed to have a solemn course, uh, this is how many breaks characterized, which wasn't usually characterized by our work, but 9 large are really these issues on the agenda, and here, they've gotten the conditions to continue now after this ten-minute break. So, since I am reporting to you that the Kolegijum has not reached agreement on this issue and the Rules of Procedure will now be voted on by delegates from the Federation of BiH entity and, to remind you, it is necessary for delegates from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to oppose this agenda. Otherwise, the agenda is being adopted. So, please delegates from the Federation. They need 2/3 against being in order for this agenda to fall, the proposed agenda. So it's enough for 1/3 of the Federation delegates to vote, only 2/3 are not against it. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6488	No, it's possible to vote on the agenda and against, so you can see how much he's against it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6489	Here's your vote, please. I find that the agenda has been adopted. Only five delegates, pardon me or not. So this agenda has been adopted. We move to the first point of today's agenda, which is Ad.1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions There was no answer to any delegate questions. Here's a colleague named Jukić, as usual. Any new delegate questions, if they make any more sense? Mr. Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6491	I just have one question. When are we going to get answers to the asked delegate questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6492	I'll just inform you that our letter with the conclusion of the last session, where we warned them of this practice that unfortunately was what it was. 10 So we move to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 62nd session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please vote. I find that the record from last session has been adopted. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6496	Can I have a microphone? Let me just say that this law under paragraphs 4, 5 and 9 represents one whole and each applies to the same law and that's the Customs Tariff Act. These issues that deal with these three laws that are on the agenda today are very important and are mainly about the change in the relationship between our regulations and the import of certain re-competitions that are important for our economy, for the final products. Unfortunately, so far and at this time, we have a very anachron law that provides, for example, that for some products there are no customs duties on imports of goods and for the repromaterials that enter the production of this product they have customs duties, so these three laws correct this failure and thus enable the economy to function more efficiently, to get more cheap repromation. This means that its product in Bosnia and Herzegovina is more competitive, and it is certain that our businesses will, after, hopefully, adopt these three laws today, be in a position to have more competitive prices on the outside. In that sense, therefore, this is an extensive debt and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of our economy will be of great benefit if we adopt all three laws. I don't think there's any reason we shouldn't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6497	I thank my colleague, Čengić. The report's gone. I'm closing the debate. And please make a statement about the law. You're welcome to vote. I realize we've passed this law, 11 in, 1 in abstention. The fifth item of the agenda is Ad.5. A request from the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples In accordance with Article 100(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with Article 100 after the hearing. The amendments can't be submitted. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. So we're voting on whether we're going to consider the law by article 100. Please vote. This is where the display shows me but you wouldn't get a word after you're behind. So for 11, 1 is restrained. 12 I am opening a debate on this law. Since no one answered my question, I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. You can vote. I realize we've passed this law. 11 for one abstention. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the settlement of obligations under the account of the old foreign exchange savings under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6503	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered this law at its last 54th session and found that there were no amendments to the law on our commission, as there were neither in the House of Representatives nor in the House of Representatives, and the Commission proposed that this law should be adopted since there were no amendments in both the first and the second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6504	I thank you, there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law in first reading. You're welcome to vote. 11 for one abstention. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. 14 Please plead. 9 for, 1 abstention, 1 against. The debate was also adopted in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment to this bill. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Pajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6505	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a quick one. I just want to explain. I voted against the law going to another reading and, of course, I will vote against the law for the reason that we are in the meantime today, I received a letter from the Association of Agricultural Producers of Republika Srpska asking that this law be removed from the agenda. There are certain explanations, and it's not good, or it's harmful, to say the least, for this population. So I respect the opinion of this association, and that's why I'm not ready at this point to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6506	Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6507	I have to admit, I haven't seen that memo from agricultural producers and I'm guessing it's a small group of agricultural producers, but I'd like to remind you of the following. First, this is a law prepared by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and proposed as such. In that Council of Ministers, as far as I know, there are four ministers from Republika Srpska. There was no problem with the Council of Ministers' proposal, so the Council of Ministers supported the law and there was no difference in that regard when it came to the views of ministers from both entities. On the other hand, in the House of Representatives, the Law is supported, and on our committee on which we discussed we had no amendments. It would be perfectly natural if someone had objected to some solutions in this law to ensure the possibility to submit amendments, especially since there are two respected colleagues in our commission from Republika Srpska. So I don't think it would be good for this law to be questioned in any way, and at the same time I want to visit the next one. There is a possibility that, at the beginning of the next term, if some of these solutions really prove to be less useful for some farmers and I do not believe that there would be any difference between the position of farmers in the RS and the Federation that these solutions would change. However, at this point, I do not think there is any reason why this law should not be supported in the text proposed by the Council of Ministers, as it passed at the House of Representatives and as it was accepted without amendments to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6508	I thank my colleague, Čengić. No more reports. Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6509	I thank you, I welcome all those present and I must say that the truth is what Mr. Čengić said that we had this on the Commission and then we didn't have the attitude that we got today, unfortunately. The Association of Agricultural Producers of Republika Srpska not to complete amendments to the Law, but to one part speaks about the harmfulness for the Republic of Serbia, or agricultural producers, and at all agricultural producers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina point to this, so that I was thinking about not going to another reading today, to see if there is any possibility of amendments to the proposed changes and complementing that, one member I think is controversial in this change that we are going to do so. Otherwise I have to be against this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6510	Before I give my word to Mr. Čengić, I saw, of course, this memo that Mr. Pajić mentioned, but I did not multiply and divide it further, because it was not addressed to us. He was addressed to the House of Representatives, to the people of the College of the House of Representatives, and it doesn't say that he was addressed to us anywhere, so I wasn't in a position. So I can't share that material. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6511	So here's this information that you gave us that this memo wasn't addressed to the House of Peoples, and I said we didn't have any information on the Commission. So there was no amendment, no memo, no letter, nothing that would in any way dispute this text of the law. We couldn't do anything but give support to this law. I have the following proposal, and I suggest that we make a statement today on this law in the second reading and make one conclusion that would be very close and that it is said that the Council of Ministers is in charge of monitoring the implementation of this law and that within 6 months of today, if there are any effects that are not acceptable for the Council of Ministers to go with the addition of its law, because it is also the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6512	I thank you for the proposal from the chairman of the Commission, Mr Cengic. Is anyone else answering for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6513	Let's hear these colleagues from Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6514	Please don't provoke a colleague, so since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. 16 Now we will plead. So there's no discussion left, and all we have to do is make a statement about this law. So you can approach the vote. I find the law passed, 9 for, 1 abstention, 2 against. Yes, I respect, we have a proposal for Mr. Čengić's conclusion, given that he said it less than a minute ago, I don't think there's any need to repeat it. So, I put Mr. Čengić's proposal to vote. You can vote. Therefore, Mr. Čengić's proposal was adopted unanimously in connection with this conclusion. Moving to the tenth point of the Ad.10. Proposal for an e-signature law, first reading You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the Law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings in the proposed text. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6516	Yeah. Just for a little while. At the 55th session of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, this law was discussed and the Commission unanimously proposed to the House to give it support. The essence of this law is that when we pass this law enables Bosnia and Herzegovina, or all those who operate in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or operate in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, that they can electronically provide confirmation of their signature, which speeds up business. First of all, trade, Mr. Secretary, so first of all trade speeds up, then second business. And at the same time this law has ensured that certain areas of rights such as any legal activity that involves identifying identities, such as real estate, business through notaries, etc. excludes the ability to sign electronically. In this way, this bill, which is fully in line with the European standards of Bosnia and Herzegovina, goes a step further in what is called the development of electronic society. That is why the Commission has proposed that support be given to this law and since, Mr Chairman, since there has been no amendment, we propose, as the Commission, that we declare ourselves today both in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6517	I thank President Čengić. Here I will also say the reason here may be insufficient concentration in monitoring his proposals by this table, namely we asked to include the climate, and here's the debt, considering 17 that we invited, except for us delegates here and representatives of the information and our dear guests, we invited them to a cocktail for the last session in this assembly of our home and it was scheduled at 13 o'clock. Now, here's what we've done here is a brief consultation, and we're proposing as a Kolegijum, so let's get on with our work, because the assumption is that we can quickly finish the session and then in peace, after we go to that cocktail, not to interrupt. So if you have an understanding of that, we ask for understanding. We'll take this as an understanding. So we're voting on the law in the first reading, and I repeat, it's about the e-signature bill. You can approach the vote. We unanimously passed this law in our first reading. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. We adopted this proposal unanimously. And now we have a second reading when a debate is being held on amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment to the bill. Is anyone answering for word now? I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote on the law. We unanimously passed this law. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, Add.11. BiH Human Rights Omdusmen Special Report on Appeals related to length of court proceedings I see Mr. Ljubić's Ombesmen here. I welcome him. So you received a special report from the Ombusmen for Human Rights of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted a special report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Now we'll get to the bottom of this report. You're welcome to vote. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Annual Human Rights Report in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005. Congratulations. 18 Moving to the 12th point, that's Ad.12. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at BiH level for the 2002-2006 term
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6521	And here at points 13 and 14 of this agenda we have two documents that make up one whole, which is to provide a 12m-euro loan for the needs of the Civil Aviation Directorate in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to ensure the necessary equipment and implementation, i.e. the installation of equipment, and training for the needs of the Civil Aviation Directorate, which in the next two years by equipping and training its personnel would be able to take full control of flights and flights across Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is important is that the funds are relatively favourable credit and secondly that a complete loan will be paid out of the revenue generated by the Civil Aviation Directorate from the billing of overflights in such a way that approximately 7% of the annual revenues will be possible to repay and service this loan. In this regard, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in a position in two years to generate revenue from the initial around 15m euros, then likely every year that income will grow. 19 So this is a very important decision and I think that by representing the position of the commission that has proposed to this home that we give consent at point 13 and 14. we actually contribute to the further development of the Civil Aviation Directorate's capacity in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6522	I thank my colleague, Čengić. So I don't see any charges for the hearing. We'll make a statement about granting consent to ratify this contract. Please approach the vote. We unanimously agreed on item 13 of the agenda. The fourteenth point is Ad.14. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Air Traffic Management Project You have received a report from the Commission from the competent authorities. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. We're voting now. You're welcome to vote. We unanimously agreed. And we move to the 15th point of the agenda, Ad.15. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of a person whose stay is illegal
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6525	....the agenda, so the Foreign Trade Policy Commission at its last session discussed this issue and supported the idea of ratification of this contract. What matters is that we round up a large number of contracts, ratify a large number of contracts about so-called. readmission, which is one of the most important preconditions for negotiating a more favourable visa regime for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since Italy is a very important member of the European Union and Šengen and, at the same time, Italy is one of the countries that is exposed to a large number of immigrants in various ways and illegal ways, the fact is that we have the opportunity to ratify this agreement, which is why it strengthens the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I just want to take the opportunity to say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has already started negotiations with France on the signing of the readmission agreement, and after that there is only 20 left, so Finland's skating Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to sign this contract and that we end the deal with the Schengen and EU countries. In this respect, the Commission proposes to the House to give its consent to ratify this Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6526	I thank my colleague, Čengić. I don't see any reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6527	I just have one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6528	Except for Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6529	For Mr. Čengić. Here's this agreement was signed somewhere in May 2004. Does the Commission, does the Commission know why it was acidified in the Council of Ministers and until it came for ratification for two years?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6530	So, the Commission doesn't know exactly because in this sense we didn't have detailed data, but I suppose that this contract from that rebellion of international contracts that stood in unidentified Latin and unidentified office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in the last six months, according to my information, not only that drawer, but this entire office has been cleared and we have ratified almost 150 international contracts in the last six months. So in this way, of course the objection may exist, but what the people would say better than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-09-20-0.u6531	I thank Mr. Čengić. So the House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. No Niko answered for the debate to discuss it. I am concluding the debate on the final item of the agenda of this call to the House of Peoples. Here we go to the last vote in this session. You're welcome to vote. I wouldn't have a smile on my face if I was sorry. Unanimity. So, dear colleagues, I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Treaty between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the acceptance of a person whose stay is illegal. At the very end, we won't applaud ourselves here in this room like the House of Representatives did. Whether we deserve a round of applause or not, that's what the citizens will say very soon, in about 10 days' time, so let's hear it from both of us. 21 I thank all dear colleagues. We didn't foresee to make any speeches down on the cocktail, of course there will be journalists you can all make statements. I'd like to thank you, therefore, for all the horses the House of Nations cooperated with. I would especially like to thank our professional joint services and professional services, the media and everyone, as I said, for our cooperation. In my personal name, I thank everyone really, all and once a delegate in and on behalf of my colleagues, of course Mr Pamuk and Mr Jukić, and for these other words maybe other dimensions we have space and time down on this cocktail and here I invite everyone who is in this room to go down where it is, as I expect prepared, and I believe that some more will come who are not here right now. Thank you, cheers. The session was completed at 13:30.
