ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22461	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 75th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests, I also welcome the representatives of the public information funds following the work of this session. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests, representatives of international organisations who follow the work of the House, have been invited to attend, and I am taking the opportunity to welcome them. According to the Service report, I find that the session is attended by 28 MPs, 19 from the Federation, 9 from Republika Srpska, which means we have a quorum for full and full-fledged decision-making. The absence of this session was justified by Prof. Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, and the announcement of the delay was announced by Miss Jelina Đurković. All those who did not justify Mirko Blagojević, so the fellow Blagojević and all those who did not announce their absence, we expect them during this session. Ladies and gentlemen and this time, of course, we have amendments and additions to the proposed agenda compared to the one you received in the invitation to the session. The draft amending and supplementing law of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been excluded from the agenda for the reason that the Constitutional and Legal Commission decided at a meeting held on 2 March to request an extension of the deadline from the Kolegijum. In its application for an extension of the deadline, the committee states, in addition to the fact that the draft law has been tabled even on the 66th amendment, and that there is therefore a concern that some of the amendments are not consistent with the text of the law, and that therefore the representatives of the working group that the legislator has been working on have requested additional time for a quality analysis of all amendments that have been made. The agenda also downloaded the 12th point that is the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the identical Personal Data Protection Act, because the Commission failed to meet. A meeting of the Commission was called yesterday, however, because of the weather, some members could not come, so there is no job done. We included in the agenda a point which is mandatory under the Rules of Procedure, which is - The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and that point, you got boldly by regular 5. 2 And the last change is that we moved the Agency for Investigation and Protection information to the last place for the reason that we received information with the "trust" sign, so for practical reasons we moved it to the end of the agenda. The above-mentioned amendments and additions to the agenda were agreed at the session of the Extended College of the House held yesterday and you received the final draft agenda. One more piece of information, before the debate is opened, I would also like to inform you that the College has succeeded in agreeing to remove item 18 from today's agenda, which is a list of candidates for the appointment of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the conclusion of the House from the 71st session held on 26.12.2005. The only reason we are doing this is because we have the conclusion of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Commission on the launch of a procedure to determine the violation of the provisions of the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. I think it's best that this home waits for this procedure to be completed and then pleads. I'm afraid that if we were to enter the House today, we would depend on how this process ends. I think that from the point of view of the House and what we're discussing would be best, and so I ask the House for an understanding that we take off the 18th point of the agenda, that's the Kolegijum's proposal. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, Dr. Potočnik, Mr. Potočnik and Dr. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have two interventions, but before we move on to the agenda points, I would like Mr. Chairman to inform you and the distinguished colleagues that the Mixed Club has launched an initiative to vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since it is now an opportunity, before we conclude practically or declare the agenda, to comply with Article 116. The MPs' club, or at least 10 MPs in the House, may initiate a motion for a vote on the non-confidentiality of the Council of Ministers. We have respected this article with the desire to join us other MPs, because we leave that possibility, because Article 116 says that it is also possible for individual signatures and MPs to join us and thus open up such an opportunity even though it takes at least 10 MPs, I believe that we will secure that as well. Mr. Chairman, I will present this initiative to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because in Article 116, paragraph 2. We have rules of procedure as a club to deliver in written form signed with explanations, i.e. the reasons for the launch of an initiative to replace the Council of Ministers. When we hand it to you, I ask you, as chairman, to submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the MPs and the House of Peoples. At the same time, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, because within 20 days, we should lead the debate here, and no later than 30 days from the date of delivery to the Council of Ministers. This is specified by Article 117. Rules of Procedure. And, of course, when all this comes back to us, we'll have the opportunity to conduct a debate and, of course, vote on it. 3 I would now ask the Service to deliver this to you Mr. Chairman, the club initiative that they signed next to me, Petar Kunić and Mirko Blagojević, where we listed here and the reasons why we are looking for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22463	I thank my colleague Gligorić. So the only thing I can say is that we will treat the initiative in a business way is that it is the only option as well as any other initiative. It is yours, then, to shape the initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You can explain it, or you don't have to explain it, or it's written in writing, but mostly what I can say on behalf of the College that we're going to be doing business with your initiative as well as any initiative that's been coming to the College so far. I think it's the only way to end it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22464	Here's a few reasons to explain. During this term of office, the Council of Ministers has presented a series of weaknesses, and as a basic reference, we say: 1. An inadmissible attitude towards determining how donations are spent in Bosnia and Herzegovina by refusing to finance a research project of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives worth 299 000 KM. This made it impossible for the House of Representatives to establish a donor database and determine whether there were abuses of these funds. This caused irreparable damage to BiH's reputation and its institutions for losing donor confidence, while BiH citizens remained double deprived of assistance. The first time donor funds have been misused, and others for giving up donors to give more funds to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The council of ministers is responsible for failing to establish full control over funding in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. 2. The Council of Ministers did not create conditions for the implementation of the Public Procurement Act because it did not form an office to consider complaints, which is why the Parliamentary Assembly was forced to adopt amendments and to supplement the law delaying application and full implementation. Such changes to extend the deadline have been adopted four times in the Parliamentary Assembly. Such behaviour directly affected crime and corruption in the area of public procurement. 3. The Council of Ministers also irresponsibly refers to the Law on Higher Education, which has not been proposed by law within the prescribed deadline, which is why BiH has lost the World Bank's dedicated resources, the European Commission. This directly damaged young people who are educated in Bosnia and Herzegovina 4. The Council of Ministers has not proposed the Restitution Act until today, although this was due by the end of 2004 to carry out the activities by the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers formed a Secretariat and working group that spent considerable financial resources, but did absolutely nothing, so it is responsible for spending budget funds without a final result and an effect exclusively on the Council of Ministers. 4 5. There are very poor labour effects of the Directorate for indirect taxation, which is the result of the absence of timely control, which involves the introduction of fiscal cash registers. This allowed the grey economy to continue to control money flows and the collection of VAT-based financial resources, and to the detriment of budget users and citizens. Six. The Council of Ministers has done nothing on the issue of passing the Law on Sports, despite a porned public debate proposed by MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and demands of the Olympic Committee of BiH's sports associations, sports workers and athletes and youth associations of BiH. Seven. The Council of Ministers showed the irresponsibility and irresponsibility when proposing legislation to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly such as the Law on VAT, the supply of identical... and the different titles and date relating to the release of VAT, books, brochures, regulations, publications, scientific cultural, educational character, official journal and daily and weekly press. 8. The Council of Ministers did not respect the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is why the House of Representatives had to on several occasions to seek to implement the conclusions adopted, which is the unacceptable relationship of the executive to the legislative authority. This, in normal countries alone, is sufficient reason to vote for mistrust to the Council of Ministers. The past three-year period is absolutely unacceptable in relation to the Parliamentary House of Representatives, it does not provide grounds for us to think that this relationship will change in the coming period. You've also been given 42 pages of 72 conclusions that have not been respected, and we're not talking about the decisions of this home. Nine. The Council of Ministers has shown a illogical attitude towards the working bodies of the homes, as well as towards the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, because they do not attend the sessions, although they are bound by the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, as well as by the MPs of both Houses of Parliamentary Assembly. Because of such and non-professional relations, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly often had to take off the agenda of a particular point, because there were no representatives of the proposings, i.e. The Council of Ministers, nor the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. As an example of this unacceptable relationship, an example of the OSE Work Report can be used four times delayed for that reason. Ten. The chairman of the Council of Ministers and his deputy recognised to both the BiH Parliament and the public that there are problems in their work that make it impossible for them to function successfully when they are unable to find a solution to the resignations of the ministers, Prof. Dr. Mladen Ivanić and Prof. Dr. Branka Dokić. We believe that these reasons are more than enough to launch an initiative to vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers, although it is certainly possible to state many other reasons. Let us also remind that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on two occasions launched initiatives to vote for mistrust with the Council of Ministers, but that fact did not make it more responsible for the performance of its duties. 5 This is why we hope that this time the work will be taken more seriously, the effects as well as the behaviour of the Council of Ministers and finally vote for no confidence in this Council of Ministers. This will open up a new chance to establish a far more responsible and efficient work of the Executive Authority. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for letting me give this and the explanation. This is just one piece. There will be a lot of things when the debate comes in 20 or 30 days from the Rules of Procedure, so please let me give you this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22465	Thank you. So I ask you to forward the initiative. We'll treat her like a businessman. I have allowed the initiative to be read and explained, because the initiative is at least thematically serious and, please, no debate on initiatives. It has its own business procedure and I ask all other MPs not to report for discussion on this initiative. So she has her own business trip. The word came from a colleague, and two things. Here you go. So it's over with with the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22466	I finished this initiative. I tried this quickly, and now I would specifically suggest that point 4, which is - the request of MPs Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Šefik Džaferović to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, let's get off today's agenda session. First of all, I would also like to ask the MPs to get information on why this agenda item was found in the draft agenda. You could have done it in a business way and I can see that you did it as MPs, but at the same time I would ask you to explain your position, given that as an executive, as a College of this House, you accepted the text of the Law of the House of Peoples, not the House of Representatives. However, colleagues and colleagues voted last time for the two amendments that you have ruled out. You have proposed a new text from the House of Nations and how correct that may be in terms of all of us here, what motivated you. And by the way, when I say that, I say only about that home of the people. I have an impression and it is quite evident that this home of the people is taking the initiative in relation to the House of Representatives. Here we go to constitutional changes, we advocate a civil state, we advocate that a citizen chooses, etc. This is where we let the people of the House of Peoples not tell us, as someone says, failed politicians don't pass because the citizen didn't vote for them. I'm looking at Mladen Potočnik, for him it is, and for Beriz Belkić. For each and every one of you, the man who goes there alone is rounding up for the real man Zlatko Lagumdžija. And this is where we go down there, and now they're insinuating, and we can't solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22467	I beg you with the chosen words to your colleagues in another home, they are a delegate body with the same rights. Please, Dr. Crescent. Gligor. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22468	No, no, I said that's what the other politicians said. Others have said. But here I'm asking you to take it in, we have it in mind. Why am I saying this? The headquarters can't handle the Personal Data Protection Act, Mr. Zorić. This is where we determined that the headquarters is in Mostar. It's a vital national interest that the House of the Peoples out there won't let us realize it. And I can give you a few examples now of how people don't give it to us there. They don't give about the post office, or become the home of the people. Let him deal with national interests. Let him deal with national interests, let him let us do things for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a civic home. Here, I ask you to answer that, and I think that we should vote our colleagues and colleagues to take this one down and suggest that, my proposal is to conclude, that is, on the agenda point, to take that point off the agenda because Parliament, after having done its part of the job, that part of the job is done. The law practically fell in Parliament. And I think it should go towards the executive authority, and I'm not going to mention now a question of the transfer of powers that this law did not provide to be found here in Parliament, and we have a conclusion of the National Assembly that says they should do so. We've made a lot more complicated and I'd like to ask for a correct explanation. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22469	I'm asking you, just wait a minute, you'll get an explanation, this is a mandatory agenda point, and when we get to that point, you'll get an explanation of what was the reason for us and the Expansive College to be the point of the agenda. Make sure you get the answer you asked for, but here I just wanted to draw attention not to listen, to respect the other home. He has equal rights and equal obligations and has another way of choosing. That's what the law says, so you'll get an answer. Has anyone picked up the replica? Mr. Zorić for the replica, I think, and then the Potočnik for the regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22470	Well, it's not a replica at all, but I wasn't very careful when my name was mentioned, but I figured out what it was about. So I felt that I was called the guardian of national interests. And I thank my colleague for the compliment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22471	I thank my colleague Zorić. The Mladen Potočnik answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22472	Mr. Chairman, I ask the question – why the agreed and proposed agenda item on 8.11.2005 means the auto road exit question and the port question that you received and did not put to the agenda today, and I want that answer right away. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22473	Of course, the College has come to the conclusion that the debate on this will be held on the agenda point that is related to Corridor Vc. That's the college's attitude. I only inform you of the position of the College. We've been thinking about it. Today it is on the agenda, and today we will have a debate on that agenda point, but it is part of this debate. That's how we located her. So we haven't forgotten her, we haven't missed her. We think it's appropriate to conduct a joint discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22474	I guess you've been around it since you minimized it, that's what you're trying to do. Because if it was sought as a special item of the agenda, then it had to be a special item of the agenda. Let's see what happens today under that agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22475	Well, we'll see how successful we'll all be in talking to the Council of Ministers together to impose it exactly as you wish. So it's not just up to me, it's up to all of us. So it's not just college. It depends on you how you prepare it, whether or not you will succeed in the best way possible. You'll have a chance today. So the College did everything that this possibility exists. The word was answered by Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22476	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know it's very difficult in the last year of the term of office, the fourth year to start introducing a more serious order, if we're not used to it since the first year. But this does not mean that in the fourth year of the term of office, we should allow how the time of elections is approaching to rule the greater chaos of the Council of Ministers of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying that on the agenda? There are also direct receipts of a letter that we have, or two letters found on the tables and two agendas here for which I have a concrete suggestion of conclusions. We have information on the problems and plans and the transfer of money for the needs of the Regulatory Agency and the communication of the Public TV Service of BiH. I remind you that on 25.10, therefore, watch out for 25.10, four and a half months ago, 6 sessions were held in the meantime, and this is the 7th session held by the Parliamentary Assembly, and then I suggested that it would not violate the agenda, and then the House concluded on the agenda that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives had this information at the next session, as written information. We're again, here after six sessions and after four and a half months, we don't have that information again, and we have the agenda point, so if that's the case, then we could have had this on the agenda on 25th of October, the same way we have it today. Respecting this greatest quality from the Council of Ministers that we have here. All the quality they have, obviously it came and that's good, and maybe this is the right way, to have a debate before this quality Council of Ministers controversies. 8 I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that we take off the agenda of the 17th, because it is completely pointless today. The new 17th in the new agenda, 16th since it was expelled. So I don't get confused with dot numbers, so 16. Information on the problems and plans of the transfer of money to the Regulatory Agency and re-indemnify them to give us current information for the next session, not to give us what happened four and a half months ago. That's one thing. I'd also like to ask you to drop point 18. I hope I speak correctly when I say it's 18. A review of the conclusions adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives sessions means 17. I won't speak any more numbers, I'll speak names. I propose that the proposal for conclusions adopted at the House of Representatives meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly be dropped during this period, in conclusion with the 73rd session, because that was not the point of the agenda. We don't need to discuss the review of the conclusions, because for the review of the conclusions, every associate, one secretary, could task us to list all the conclusions and not have to discuss it, even in the material that we received, it is very clear what we were looking for. Information on the realization of conclusions. So I pray that, to discuss this, the Council of Ministers will give us information on the realization of the conclusions, what has been done from what we have, who has taken over and what has not been done and why it has not been done. So I suggest we take the agenda off, which, in fact, is the Inforamcija that can be obtained, with the help of every club secretary we have here or the club secretary. With that in mind I would ask Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, I suggest, offered the letter we received, be careful, we got today's material on the bench, these are the materials that the fresh, just under the hammer came out, on the bench today on March 7th. We have received material since 16 February, since 14 February, I apologize, which informs us of the current developments in BiH's economy, which is for a period, believe it or not January-September last year, it is their current movement. From January to September last year, the current movement. Okay. Why am I saying this? Because we have received one current letter from the Prime Minister's Chairman, which does not belong to a more quality part of the Council of Ministers, which is present here, visiblely, in which it informs us that he will not give us the information he was obliged to give us until the end of last month. Let me remind you, on October 25th of last year, in one of the failed attacks to try a zero for something provided by the VAT, then the Council of Ministers accepted that by the end of the year, the software that could count on zero, so since they don't inform us, they introduced it, and then we concluded that by the end of February, as far as I know, that was up eight days ago in 2006 to inform the Parliamentary Assembly, I quote. On the course and results of the introduction of VAT. So, the flow and the results. This is the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of 25.10 and the effects of the implementation of social programmes with a full activity plan by the end of the first half of 2006 including an assessment of the need for changing tax rates. Instead of that conclusion, we are getting a letter on the table today, which, on occasion, the chairman of the Council of Ministers says very precisely that he is ready to make an analysis for us in the second half of April. In this letter, we are previously informed that only two reports have been carried out by the Statistics Agency and that the last one speaks about the drop in prices. He forgot to say that the first report said prices rose 7%, and the other said prices started to drop by 0.5% after these seven. He only informed the public that he started a 0.5 drop, forgot to inform the public that it was 7% growth. But even in a letter, it informs us that we should be, and therefore, the spectacular result will not share with us. 9 Also, here is the report of the chairman, who tells us that he is unable to give us, by February, prices, not a whole set of questions from the domain of VAT implementation, which we asked them to give us for February. That's why I, Mr. Chairman, would like to cut short what the story needs just for the manetogram, I'm taking it down to it. I suggest that information about the Public Service be released today, that information about the conclusions be released today, that the Council of Ministers be sent back to the Council of Ministers and we want them to attend the next session and remind them that they owe us by the end of February, what they say they'll give us at the end of April. Given how we are informed of the current things, if what happened to them was now current in January 2005, then objectively we can expect them, therefore, somewhere there in April 2007 to prepare us an actual information in this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22477	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I want to say that, when it comes to conclusions, we have repeatedly addressed the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, we have not received any answers, not a single letter, and then we have commissioned our services to draw conclusions, which we have been forwarding to the Council of Ministers, believe that a long time has taken us to reach this list of conclusions, meaning, the conclusion of the House of Representatives, because we wanted, of course, that you MPs have on the benches. And I appreciate that we're having a debate today. But in order for the Council of Ministers to show what was under consideration, what was adopted? What was it all about? Why didn't it happen, etc., to have one whole debate. But in order not to call us if we hadn't done anything, therefore, we were prepared to give you as colleagues a list of conclusions which this Parliament has therefore adopted and forwarded to the Council of Ministers. I also think that this 16th point should be removed, because we have no written information, and we have been obliged to put it on the agenda, and the attitude of the House is whether to leave it like this or to seek written information and, moreover, I am a supporter of it, we in the College to look for written information, so that we can conduct a quality discussion. As far as this attitude is concerned, we're looking for a report from the Council of Ministers on the introduction of the VAT and the results he's given, we're going to renew that request. I agree that we should repeat the letter, in which we will answer this so that they can in the second half of April, that the conclusion was, we know when and that we expect as soon as possible to send information on the basis of which we can conduct the debate. Dr Kunić asked for a discussion or a replica? Because Mr. Belkić has a discussion before you. If it's a replica, then it can be a replica. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22478	I have nothing new to say. Earlier people who spoke suggested for this point 16 and 17. So we join, and we wanted to point out the irrationality of the debate at these points, with you thinking about point 17, where it is indeed obvious that the service has made a great effort to systematize it all, etc. We thought it would be good for Dom to now request these unfulfilled conclusions. So now we have a review of what they haven't done to us, and we're looking for etc. Maybe this home says we've come to realize that we have so much and so many unconceived conclusions. We're looking for a deadline, I don't know how many days to plead. Whether they want to respect the conclusions, whether they can carry out conclusions or not, we can't waste time. So we are more inclined to treat this point, when it comes to reviewing the conclusions, in a way to further resolve and obtain additional information. Because if you take it off now without starting a certain activity, we'll have permanent material as a review. So we're more inclined to accept this review today, but to ask to treat 10 of these unconceived conclusions, to agree whether we're going to give up, whether we're going to ask again, etc. That's it, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22479	Thank you. Dr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22480	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, I wanted to express my support for Mr Gligorić to take down point 4. There's no need to explain, since we're familiar with this point. There's been a lot of debate in this House on this matter. This is as tight as one of the conditions for European integration. However, I would say here that one of the conditions is the census, so it's moved aside. The issue of equality of the proposal is raised in this House and the treatment of conditions for European integration. One thing we can do is move aside and it doesn't matter, and if it's far, far more important than this point of the agenda, and on another thing we can insist on until the end and even, to honor the College to propose under Article 105. This could get into Giniz's book of stupidity. The Lord of the College. Last time you dropped it, the procedure was over. It's got to start some other procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22481	He didn't fall to us, he fell to all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22482	Everyone's down, but we're not all pushing it to go along with Article 105, but you're pushing gentlemen... you're pushing it, and it's not the first time you've pushed it, to push things like that. You also pushed the customs tariff three times in a row. That's embarrassing for this Parliament. That's not the way to work. I can't agree with that. It's human maltletting. It's nowhere in the world that the point of passing the procedure so that you can put it back in the process in this way. I'd say even, and I'll say, rude way. There are other ways that it could have gone, but it's known how, not this way by the violence of spite. Mr. Špirić stood out I'll put it on the agenda. I'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22483	I did it, and you're gonna shoot down today, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22484	Vote, but I'll say please keep this. He laughs at you. He smiles at you. He smiles at you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22485	I'm asking you to continue the debate. I'll tell you what I got.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22486	Point 16. Information on problems, plans and transfers, what Mr. Lagumdžija has shown is that he needs to be removed from the agenda. I think we should take it off. We need to get a report on this, I agree with that, a written report. I think that agency 11 deserves a special debate in this house, and regarding the College again, this House has unanimously concluded that a session of Parliament is being transferred. We don't have any information about that. So, what is the relationship of the College to the MPs? Why don't you let us know? Please, we've been ordered by the OHR, I don't know of any other institutions, we're assessing that it's not notified at this time to go public, so we're going to listen to that information. You're simply denying that fact. In order for it to be good for us to hear the debate on this item of the agenda and the obvious, regarding the transfer of the session of this Parliament. This is, this is point 17. The expression of one cynicism again. It's a review of the conclusions. We don't need conclusions. We need to make a conclusion. How can you do such a thing to put in front of this house? Really, I can't explain to myself that something like this can be put on the Dom. What we need is a review of the conclusions. We've come to these conclusions, but we want the conclusion done. Which conclusions have been made and which are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22487	I thank Dr. Kunić, only if I can, Mr. Džaferović answered the word, my colleague Džaferović, I owe the replica, I owe an explanation. Nothing here is done violently. We in the College are trying what is our business opportunity to try what are the conditions for this country to arrive, do it the best way possible. So we tried, agreed, offered to Parliament. He's going to give a democratic answer to that today. We don't think anyone needs to vote past their will. One who can't explain everything to himself and we serve here to explain something, but he should listen to us. So, you will get the answer today whether this will be accepted or not when the agenda point comes, I will tell you what were the reasons and why it was done. As for the transfer of sessions, I apologize, I owe you an explanation and you're right, Dr. Kunić. We had one yesterday, I'd say, a very nice, good and polite conversation with management and Radio BH1 and state-owned transmission companies, talk to people about this conclusion. You know that here in this House we have conducted annual discussions and long-term debates to create a legislative framework, so that at all people can work, that there are technological and financial limits, at least so informed, not only on their part, but also on the side of the House of Representatives, or the State Parliament, to be a direct transfer. So there is no resistance from the company's point of view to realize the conclusion. No other nature but technology and financial. There will be some modus, until it enters into form that it can be transmitted directly, that Parliament's sessions are paid attention and that's what we did and what we could, of course, get written information, and you asked, here I tried verbally to inform you that we had not been deaf about this conclusion that we were looking for a solution to make it real. This solution is not simply BH Radio 1 has only one channel, so it must change the programming scheme when Parliament is sitting, etc. They're not as simple and as simple as they sometimes do to us and I am, and I have to fight for the realization of the conclusions of this home, and I do. It is not, therefore, our intention to force anyone here in a political sense to make such a decision or such a decision, but it is our intention as we manage this home, to put what this country's obligations are on the agenda, if it takes more than once to get to the best possible solution. And that solution that gets the support of MPs in this House is for me both legally and legitimately, but I respect those who think otherwise. I'm not 12 angry with your attitude that you see this differently. Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22488	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have indeed felt the need to say a few sentences after Mr Kunić's discussion concerning the relations between the College and colleagues in the House of Representatives, that is, fellow Members and the College themselves. I'm not elected here to the College to be insulted by someone and I think that at the height of this home in many ways, the relationship between my colleagues to my colleagues and my colleagues towards my colleagues in the House. I beg you not to insult the College. I have never, nor any of us, said to any of your discussions that it was stupid, and today it's said that the College's proposal represents the stupidity of the College, which can go to Ginis' book of record benches, so I, on occasion, understood it or it was said so. I'm asking you not to use that vocabulary. The College has done what it considers to be its obligation, and it follows BiH's obligations, which it has on its European and Euro-Atlantic path and is our obligation to react. This is our business right, as is the right of each and every one of you to submit a bill. We have proposed a law under Article 105. You have the right to decide, of course, and you will decide, but please, no offense, because I repeat, I am not elected here to be insulted by someone from the parliamentary benches. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22489	Thank you. Dr Kunić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22490	Well, I'm sure from the context of my discussion it's not my intention to insult the College. At least that doesn't occur to me, and I avoid insulting anyone, but the College can't deny certain facts. He can't deny the fact that I'm asking a question by asking a public service question at least five or six times and I don't have a college answer. So, you're analyzing, the College is advocating an MP's request. That's a fact. Not only that, but I've been looking for a series of other things, I've never got an answer. The pay law. This parliament unanimously adopted 7 - 8 - 10 months ago. The College does not report to Parliament what is happening to that law. Are you in control, or are you in communication with the Council of Ministers? To see what it is. This parliament here only sits there and makes a formal body that someone else decides or Parliament has the right to receive an answer and to tell someone. Please nicely, Parliament has made a decision then and then you do not execute and there is no bill on salaries, and we know what chaos is, how certain agencies receive wages. How some agencies get paid. How individual bodies of this Parliament determine their own salary. We've had cases like this on the Constitutional Commission, so they're assurds that come in. We strengthen state institutions. Please, in what way? What effects we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22491	If I may warn. Here we go. The agenda is a debate on the agenda. If you want the pay law, you ask for the agenda point and we'll discuss it too, but stick to the agenda. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22492	Please, I'm sticking to the agenda. I've asked ten questions about wages no more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22493	Here, set the eleventh time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22494	...it seems to be in the best interest to deal with this situation. According to what I was about to say. I do not insult the College, Mr Džaferović, but if the College cannot do this, it should also resign.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22495	You said we did something stupid, and that's why I reacted.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22496	It's such an illogical relationship. Resign if you are unable to do so. There are people who will do this here and for you are resignations as well as for the Council of Ministers and for each other, resign, if you are unable to give us answers to certain questions, if you are unable to represent this Parliament. You don't have to be offended. It's not a stupid word that would really hurt things could get in, and if Bog does, we'll write them down that they'll stay permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22497	Thank you. Mr. Sipović, did you ask for a replica? Don't waste your time. Sipović for the replica, and you are for discussion or replica, Mr. Živković? For discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22498	Dear ladies and gentlemen, given that several MPs have come forward on the 16th item of the agenda, I'm saying that I think she should stay on the agenda. The reasons put forward by the MPs are acceptable to me, too. So the information wasn't received. However, given the delay in this agenda and the time that has passed, without obtaining information, several things have also happened, which may have exceeded the very formulation of this agenda point. So, the problems that have happened with the RAC, the problem that the SIPA and the RAC have found the problem, about the prosecution and the initiation of investigations and other problems, might be good if we put this item on the agenda, and we're urgently looking together with this information that we haven't gotten yet, and if we wanted to talk about this problem, and we want as much as I see it seriously, then I think we should look at it from all angles and look at the relevant institutions for reports about the RAC... in all the businesses that we've never seen, which turns out to be no one's controlling. I think this Parliament should control them and get their information here to get, and that's why I want this to remain a part of the agenda, to make quality conclusions, and to determine anyone who needs to deliver a report to us in the next session. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22499	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, asked for a word and a colleague, Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22500	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, my proposal is close to Mr. Živković's proposal. In fact, I think it's very difficult for us to take these points off the agenda right now, but we can shorten the debate on them, in a way that, therefore, the College prepares for points 16, 17 and 18 of the conclusions that we would not be having today's debate. So in the first case, due to the lack of information, written information. In another case, the reason is that this information simply does not provide answers to what is required and, in a particular case, for the reasons that you have stated, Mr. Chairman, and in such a way we are doing business, and we are not having a debate, we are not wasting unnecessary time and we are going to lead to one of the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22501	I think this is one of the proposals that is, absolutely acceptable. So, to have points, not to have a debate, but to have a conclusion on each point, it might be much better than to give up, to text with the Council of Ministers. A colleague, Sipović, asked for the word, so Avdić, a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22502	The Honorable Chairman and Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would suggest something. I respect the chairman, the College extended and narrowly and according to the Rules of Procedure, but I would also like to remind you that I agree with some MPs that respect for my colleagues and the chair should also go mutually and I think it is good co-operation. Chairman, you said this house must be effective, efficient, we have integration in Europe ahead of us. However, I must, my indifference, since I am the youngest here and may at least have experience, but following some things I would suggest to the College, with full respect for the College, not excessive courtship, for the sake of the general interest of this home and of the citizens of BiH to reveal one responsible function that we have received constitutionally. It happens all the time, as I noticed, a large number of agenda points. I agree that you are being dictated certain points by both the Council of Ministers or some initiatives by MPs. I'm really suggesting that we get these materials at the session all the time and I'm trying to read them and be responsible and realize that I'm actively involved in it and that I contribute if I can. It happens to us all the time to get the metals here. How am I going to be able in many materials and my esteemed colleagues, believe me, to feel like I'm in some kind of machine here and just someone's hooking me up, I'm going through this. I'd like to ask the Honorable College, the chairman, that you just allow it to be exceptional when something is urgent and urgent. This has become a rule. And, then, another suggestion, if you can, that a large number of points are not removed from the agenda. I get ready, I read some material, they strip down, and then new dots come in. I agree again that it may be exceptional if something is urgent. Therefore, my suggestions are aimed exclusively at one effective work of this Parliament and suggestions and we can say effective and there is no problem. I feel here that 15 in these 21st points have some things and then very important points of the agenda are exhausted, and then they can't make a good contribution and get good conclusions. Chairman, please, I'm a little frustrated when you as a College, you as chairman say you're informing us home that you can't establish that this session is being conducted publicly. I mean, that's no excuse, because every local parliament allows television, radio and direct recording, especially BHT. It's one ratio of disrespect to an institution that makes an account. Therefore, there is no excuse, regardless of objective reasons. Second, my colleagues are out here, and I'm just gonna finish. Indeed, I would ask you, but you may not have the authority and this home, it is accused of looking on the left hand side to sit, that no one, here is now the deputy minister coming to the assembly, the largest legislative body chosen by the Council of Ministers, and that none of the Council of Ministers finds fit to be on that council. It's one attitude of disrespect to this home, and if we respect them for who we chose, I guess it's their turn to help us and give us more information. It's one suggestion, which works if we want to appreciate this home, then you who are MPs need to have such a function and protect the dignity of this home and thus suggest. That's my one suggestion. My little bits, they may have been boring to someone and this, but I think they're for efficiency purposes and I'm asking you to try and get some of these materials on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22503	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. The materials will be delivered in good time. I agree that only as far as the agenda points are concerned, if yesterday's decision by the College so I prepare it in the afternoon that it can be distributed, that there is no distribution of materials for other points of the agenda to be discussed at other sessions, there is. I think there's less to it. As for our relationship with the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers towards us, Mr. Sipović, here is Dr. Gligorić's initiative today, you have the absolute right to plead as you see the Council of Ministers. Believe me, I'll do it. I can't bring anyone here physically, but I can either support him or I can't support him. I'm going to be very interested in your relationship with them, since you said what their relationship is to us. I agree here, absolutely with you. Dr Avdić called and let us stick to the agenda, debate on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22504	My fellow Members and fellow Members, dear guests, I, too, should continue where my colleague Špirić stopped, which means the replica and fellow Members of Sipović. It would be good to ask these questions to the authorities of the party to which it belongs, which is the backbone of the parliamentary majority and to ask the question of the responsibility of its staff why they have not been in this room for the fourth year. So that's one and three interventions short. The Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, believe it or not, is the Memorandum of Agreement on a single aid grant from the Republic of Slovenia since 2001, signed on 19 May 2003, came to the Council of Ministers in December 2005 and came to Parliament in February 2006, respectively, in March 2006, which is, indeed, asking for an answer why such documents in such a drastic way are late and simply coming to the meeting of Representative 16 at home. If there is not enough response, I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda or that we have a material processor, or the Council of Ministers, give us a sufficient answer as to why we have such a time delay. That's one. Two, my colleague Lagumdžija suggested that this item be removed from the agenda. She's very important, a review of the conclusions. I suggest that it be reformed and that the processor, i.e. the rapporteur at this point, simply evaluate what could have been done according to the conclusions of the House of Representatives, means that the point is called to consider the realization of the conclusions adopted, etc. So, reviewing the conclusions. And, under three, I welcome the three chairmans' agreement on this fourth item of the agenda and I suggest that it remain on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22505	I thank Dr. Avdić. Dr Gligorić reported for replication or rapsration.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22506	It's not a replica, it's also for this point 4 that I was already talking about, and since the College is a little offended by what Prof. Kunić, let's see how you do. Let go of emotion and insult. In Article 100, says point 2. If the Joint Commission fails to reach an agreement or if both homes fail to adopt its proposal, the bill is considered rejected. In this case, that's how it happened. The chairman will inform the House, the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. Now I'm asking you, because now we're deciding, and let's not adopt, and then whether it's an emergency procedure or a regular procedure, we've got something back in the game, and we have no right because it's been refused. I ask you if you as a College, nod to Mr. Džaferović, but I now ask you as a College, don't you, you spoke to Professor Kunić about insult, and you did not answer him specifically about the list of terms of the Council of Europe, love for her. You didn't say anything about that. I ask you if you have informed the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH, because you are obliged, if you have not done so for formal reasons, you do not have the right to put in an emergency procedure as a mandatory item of the agenda. I'm asking you first to make a statement about it. Did you honor the Rules of Procedure as a whole? We Rules of Procedure cannot be selectively applied as we do by Mr. Belkić only one sentence. You said, it's been an hour. Don't discipline us, because you have a congregational majority, you've done well, and you work well and you rule, and now you'd like to make us be good for a minute and you're good happy and you're ruling without us being normal critics. Well, man, for God's sake, don't take it away here or make a fuss, if you tell someone a watch, it's gonna be five hours, if we talk straight, and I guess we're talking. Don't calm us down here for an hour, two, three, and make it as long as it takes. Don't scare us here with the discipline of the congregation majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22507	Dr Gligorić asked for an answer and I am obliged to give it. I'm asking you that we all have to keep an eye on each other. I saw the replica of my colleague Belkić. 17 So there's no reason for this college to do anything besides business procedures. I think that even when Dr. Gligorić thinks differently from me that he cares as much as I do to meet the conditions. So there's no dilemma. So Dom was informed the moment the law fell. So, we all know that the law has fallen, that it is not in line. The Council has been informed, don't worry, so we respected the Rules of Procedure and don't have any dilemma at all. You can say that you don't like it that you won't vote because, thousands of other reasons, but according to the Rules of Procedure, we're keeping an eye on each other, and that's why I want to assure you that we didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, nor is it our intention to hurt you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22508	Let's have you answer that nicely to me. I got the word, Mr. Belkić. You answered that, but I would not like some spy secret connections, as the secret police are working in BiH, to inform some Presidency and the Council of the Ministers of Mobiles. I would like you to show the document, that you, as chairman, or the College signed the Council of Ministers and say, here is the document, Mr Gligorić, and I will close my mouth and also according to...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22509	Mr. Gligorić...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22510	Do you have a document? Don't make love like this, for God's sake, trust. We're not for trust yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22511	I beg you to preserve the dignity of both your and ours, it will be much better for this point and for this House, if possible, because we haven't quite come to that, I beg you. My colleague Belkić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22512	My intention when I said clock and 15 minutes, etc. she was heading in the direction, so to speak, rational use of time. All of what we've heard, of course, can be said within the agenda point, etc. I would like to remind you that every time we hold an extended college, of course not everyone is represented in some way in an extended college, and there is a place where we can agree a lot and agree with the kolegij and make comments that there is no material, that it is not material quality, that they have sinned perhaps on the Rules of Procedure etc. And we were, were Mr. Gligorić talking together yesterday and agreed on the agenda in principle and now really spend an hour and 20 minutes on the agenda, it really doesn't make sense. I don't mind, here, if we need to talk all day, but there's a question of what we're accomplishing. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Gligorić. Bog forbid I scare anybody.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22513	Dr Kunić responded to the replica, and I don't have any applications for discussion. I'm asking you to bring the end. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22514	It should be agreed to the fact that the sessions are irrational, but the question is why the sessions are irrational, obviously that the preparatory phase is wrong, so the sessions are irrational. It's not because of this parliament or because of Gligorić. I would, however, ask the College to transfer these formal assumptions so that we could decide on this point 4. That's to inform the Bureau and the Council of Ministers that you're documenting it in writing, I insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22515	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the services that Dr. Kunić requested to deliver, since I have information that these documents exist. So we have more demands. There's a compromise. Now I'm asking Dr. Lagumdžija to help us. So, I agree, there is a proposal to remove the 16th and 17th points at your request. There's another proposal to keep them, but to strengthen them only by concluding what we're asking the Council of Ministers, so we're not having an extensive debate, but exactly what you're talking about. So, not to take it down, but to say this is a list of conclusions, we ask the Council to make every statement as to why it wasn't realized, you're not realized, because we did it on behalf of them. So, we're counting the conclusions that we're looking for what's going on with the conclusion that this 16 point remains, too, simply to have some active conclusion about what fellow Živković was talking about, if that's okay with you. If you insist we vote individually to remove the points, of course, I can't take away your or I intend to have a business opportunity, but I would ask if it is possible for them to remain active conclusions only without having a discussion, because we don't have written materials. Do you agree? Just conclusions to adopt. Thank you very much. There is only a conclusion of the College to remove the 18th point because we have a conclusion, we have a working conclusion of the Election Commission that a procedure for breach of conflict of interest is being conducted. So, so that Parliament does not make the wrong decision, that we wait for the procedure to be completed and then that point. Do you agree with that? Thank you very much. So it's adopted, we realize that we're not putting it on the agenda, but as a working conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22516	To realize that this point was supposed to be on the agenda and we're asking that it be prepared immediately, not waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22517	We agree, that's how we figure it out. So we adopted the next agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22518	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break for 15 minutes until the papers arrive.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22519	Okay, on behalf of the club, 15 minutes break. 19 Please, Branka Todorović, secretary of the home to give an explanation or those seeking a break, whether they are in the O.R. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Blagojević, would you like to make a statement on behalf of a mixed club or invite your colleagues? Is there a need or no need? There isn't. Then I ask Branko Todorović to explain the situation as Home Secretary. Here's Branka so we can make a statement on the agenda. So, can it be a problem or not this point, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22520	According to article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House, the Service was obliged to inform the Council of Ministers and the Presidency that it was a law. We can't find that letter in the office and we're still looking for it, there's little time left, but I want to say my opinion on the procedure of Article 105 of the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH. This is my opinion and I'm giving it to Article 105. The draft law shall be submitted to the chairperson, or immediately delivered to the House in order to demonstrate the request for the procedure of Article 105. Following the decision on the procedure, fate will be known whether the law goes into the ordinary procedure or is voted immediately on by the law, if the procedure of Article 105 is adopted. So this previous question could not affect Article 105's procedure as set out in item 5 of the agenda. I regret if there have been these misunderstandings in the Service, but I think the procedure under this law is quite clean, and the House should continue the debate and vote on the application for Article 105's procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. If I'm clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22521	Thank you, Branka. That's the same attitude as the College. I beg you, so we've established the next agenda. Please, the debate is closed, the debate is closed. I realize we've adopted the next agenda. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, I'm sorry. You weren't in there. You must be so collegiate, I have time and patience today. I respect all of you. The debate is closed. I asked you to give your vision. You were gone. Branka gave an interpretation. We at the College agreed. So at today's session, we have the next agenda. Journal of the 74th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of MPs Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Šefik Džaferović to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 20. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Financial Report of the Commission and the Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act (proposer: MP Zlatko Lagumdžija), 7. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an Agreement on the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act (proposer: MEP Jozo Križanović), 8. Proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons accused and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (first reading), 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (first reading) - Proposer: Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, 10. Proposal for a framework law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report (proposer: Member Momčilo Novaković), 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget (proposer: MP Dušanka Majkić), 12. Report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2004: (a) BiH Veterinary Offices, (b) BiH Constitutional Court, (c) Commission for opening and accepting offers for beneficiaries of the BiH institutions, (d) Programme for the Revitalisation of BiH Institutions, (e) Archives of BiH, (f) Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees – CRPC, (g) Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, (h) Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (i) Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH, (j) High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, 13. Discussion: (a) Reports on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces in operations, support for peace in 2005, with the conclusion of the BiH Presidency, (b) Decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on the deployment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police forces in the support of peace operation of the United Nations in Sudan, 14. Joint Security and Intelligence Commission's work report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's work for April 2004-December 2005, 15. Activity report on the Road Project on Corridor 5c, 16. Information on problems, plans and money transfer for the needs of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Public TV Service of BiH, 17. Review of the conclusions adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives session during this term of office, concluded with the 73rd session, 18. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the BiH Budget and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 21 19. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (b) the Treaty on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – The National Way of Banja Luka – Gradiška, (c) the Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Enlargement of Donated Assistance of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001, (d) the Treaty on Loan – The Regional Project of Railways between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (e) Protocol 14 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which refers to the addition of a system for the control of the implementation of the Convention, 21. SIPE's information on the Abazović family tragedy from Rogatica. We move to work on the adopted agenda Ad.1. A record from the 74th session of the House of Representatives you received. Any objections? I'm opening a debate. No objections. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 MPs voted against, no one abstentioned. I agree that we unanimously accepted the minutes from the 74th session of the House of Representatives and thus obtained the conditions to move on to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to MPs' questions received MPs: Muhamed Moranjkić to the question asked at the 65th and 71st sessions. Ljiljana Milićević asked questions at the 73rd session of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to open the first question of whether there are any comments on the answers received and give me a chance to ask you new questions. With my request, a warm request that if we can today, since we have spent a lot of time discussing the agenda that, unless there is a short need to refrain today from asking MPs questions and not spending an hour standing at our disposal. So, a colleague of Moranjkić's asked for a word. Here you go. I beg your understanding, therefore.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22522	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman said, I received an answer to the parliamentary question asked five and a half months ago. It read as it said, I don't know if before, you used to practice that all MPs 22 get circularly, but I asked, I asked a question about the security of citizens and the personal in this country I got an answer which is the true arrogance that is totally unknowing of the objective state in this country. Brooke from the ministry if that's what she wrote, because she doesn't know the job she's supposed to be doing. It says to me that they arrested and prosecuted ministers, generals, heads of state, which is just talking about the darkness of this country, and it's not talking about what I asked him. So the spill from the hollow to the blank fog, and this is the shame of the answer, and I didn't expect this answer to be set up by the worst streetman in this country, not the Council of Ministers. So the answer shows that it's one irony where I'm told what should come out of the law, etc. Should the late Leotar have asked the question that he would get a hell of a mine to tell him, sir, don't mention it, because it doesn't say it anywhere in the law. In that context, let's say that this question is answered by me. Whoever got that question would like to read and see. This is really and embarrassing and beyond reason what happens to these people in the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security, and not to expect them to burst, here you see every day in the streets where in the movie at Ok Coral, there's no reckonings like this in this country. I really think that I finally didn't get the answer, that this answer is extremely ironic and extremely incorrect and all that's written is a disgrace to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry that gave this answer. I'm looking for the right answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22523	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Who's still picking up the word? He's not answering. Mrs. Milićević. I thought it would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22524	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I must comment on the answer I received on the question, and I comment on why I should point out something that should not be repeated to us. It was a matter of friendly settlement before the Court of Human Rights on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina reached in the Hadžić case. Such a friendly settlement is the best thing that can happen to us before the Court of Human Rights because it involves erasing the meaning of this case from the record. However, this response confirmed what I saw in the Council of Europe, the paper that the Council of Ministers had already had, that Bosnia and Herzegovina meant a friendly solution on October 11th which promised to pay the man who sued Bosnia and Herzegovina by 31.12, and by that date to transfer the case to the man who sued an adequate medical facility. But until 31.12.2002, none of this was done, so we asked for an extension to February 24th. The only thing that has been done, the Council of Ministers has decided on February 21st to form a task force that will only now consider where to place the man who won the court. What's this about? This way, so we've actually deluded the Court of Human Rights and I'm afraid this will come back to us as a boomerang in the following cases. It's easy to come up with a friendly solution, but it means that both sides have accepted that they will do what they are, so we've accepted something like this why we knew in the beginning that it's not possible to execute. That's why I just wanted to get to know the public about this. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22525	I thank my colleague Milićević. I would pray if I could stay, so if we can today without parliamentary questions, if not, I can't take anyone's right. Comrade Sipović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22526	Here I am chairing, I will be very brief. At the 72nd session, I still asked two specific questions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Department of Justice at what stage of the Law on Lawyerry of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'm asking a question because I have assurances, I've been in touch with Minister Kovač that I needed to get an answer in writing. I don't know why it takes 15 days for me to get an answer to a parliamentary question. That's one question. And the second question is -- I also initiated that session at the 72nd session, and I asked what procedure it was in, and whether it was intended to be resolutely the Ministry of Civil Affairs headed by the minister of the professor. Halilović Safet to put into parliament the Law on Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And I'm going to ask that question, and Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. College, give us MPs to protect our integrity. We trust you a lot, and protect you, because I don't need an answer after half a year. I'm very responsible, I can put the same thing in parliamentary procedure, use my powers and put that law in place. I think it is very complex laws, very necessary that do not require any material resources and I think that they are of interest to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the Law on Lawyerry in the framework of judicial reform, judicial reform. I would ask if you can use your authority not to be ignored by the Council of Ministers, or by any resolute ministry and not deliver us after half a year's response, because we respect them a lot, but if I'm going to need a half-year, then that's really ignoring. In that context, I'm still asking one question and I'm looking for an answer, otherwise one, if I can't get that answer in this House, then there are other methods and ways. I think it's coming out of the box.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22527	Thank you. You're right, I've been asking questions for a long time and I finally quit when I saw there was no point in asking questions. As you can see, I haven't set it up in a while, I don't advise anyone. So, I'm sorry the Council of Ministers isn't responding. We'll send an emergency to see what's up with the answers to those questions. I'm asking other colleagues, so. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22528	Mr. Chairman, let me just say this, you've just taken this from my mouth. The question is, then this is a farce. The second item of the agenda is farce.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22529	Mr. Sipović, we've been talking about this for three years, but since you're the second, two or three sessions, I'm guessing you don't know about these discussions. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to get the Council of Ministers to have an active relationship so far. I guess we'll get a chance to get the MP to ask, and the minister answers directly. I hope so, I believe we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22530	So you're suggesting we take off this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22531	No, no, no. Because we must respect her in business, and today I ask the MPs, if they can ask a question in writing, in order to avoid an hour of debate on matters. If there's a possibility and a will? If not, please continue. Okay. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Thank you all for making a contribution. Mrs. Sopta, I haven't seen you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22532	...new questions to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22533	I said we were done with the comments and I begged the MPs, if there is a mood to get questions in writing, and that's an obligation. But I can't take anyone's right to ask. So here you go, but I'm asking other colleagues, so if we could just ask in writing and not spend an hour. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22534	All right. I'll ask the question in writing. Therefore, I join yours, or I respect your request.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22535	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22536	Please. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22537	Who's on the phone? Nobody's answering. So we conclude the debate and thank all of you dear colleagues who have contributed to not spending an hour, because it has proved that we do not get an answer to most of the questions. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 14 February 2006, a draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina came to Parliament with a request for an urgent procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22538	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, given the importance of this law, I cannot help but say a few words before its adoption. All reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would ask first, I really don't have the strength to shout, and to have discussions like this
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22539	I ask you to secure the atmosphere so the MP can speak. Please, colleagues, please, Minister Keba, if you need a break, we will. Here you go, fellow Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22540	Almost all reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina are under heavy pressure from the international community. However, when certain laws are passed, the implementation of them leaves the international community to the domestic authorities and the problem arises, as domestic authorities are very slow to implement them. Therefore, it is obvious that only law enforcement should be controlled by representatives of the international community. That shows this law. The law on public procurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina was passed in November 2004. It's March 2006. So 16 months. And the work, with the work, has not yet begun the Office to consider complaints as an independent institution that will be in charge of the appeal procedure in the public procurement process. I can't make this noise to some colleagues here. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22541	I'm asking my colleagues to listen to a colleague. I don't know what else to do but beg.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22542	We've been listening to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22543	I don't have a business opportunity to use any other word than please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22544	It is certain that it is clear to all of us that not establishing the application of the law, the one involved, is the establishment of all the institutions that this law provides for everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is well-known that he recently presented a transfernet that spends about 800m in Bosnia and Herzegovina annually on public procurement, and that the tenth part, so around 80m, ends up in private pockets. All of this is in favour of being too late and it is necessary to allow the public procurement law in BiH to be implemented as soon as possible. In accordance with this proposal, I propose to support the Council of Ministers' proposal and to consider and adopt the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement in accordance with Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22545	I thank my colleague, Majkić. A colleague of Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to remind this home first that this is the fourth, or fifth amendment to the Public Procurement Act. That it was always done in accordance with Article 105 and that it was always the same, the same change applied to the shift in deadlines. I talked about it at one of the sessions when we were extending the deadline for the establishment of this procurement commission. And that's when I said it was high time we stopped doing the table practice, especially by approving it under Article 105. I won't even be able to do this today as per Article 105. Why? A kolegica, Majkić, has already made a good introduction here on how long it has been more than a year to establish itself, to introduce commissions and establish the Office of Appeals. I can be underprivileged and say that it is consciously done by a particular ministry because it is appropriate for them to play the role of the Commission for Public Procurement at the same time as the Board for Appeals. The next reason is that this law, this amendment of the Law, refers to an extension of time until the end of this third month, although the deadline was set at 11 months last year, which means that it would have retroactive meaning, power. 27 My proposal, therefore, is to put this law, this bill, in the ordinary procedure, regardless of broken deadlines, and to the Constitutional and Legal Commissions as well as the competent commissions, assess the behaviour of the promoter in relation to the respect of deadlines and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22547	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Kunić, then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22548	So I, gentlemen, support Mr. Križanović's proposal. This is an important law. Some called it a revolutionary law, as if there was no law like this in the previous system, but I think it's more consistent to be respected than it is today, at least twenty times. I have said in my time when it was about amendments and additions to this law in this House that this law is the basis for the biggest crime being committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Base! And I wanted on the Constitutional Commission to form an additional commission, an additional body, or to co-opt people from practices that best see where it goes around the law. So which segments are to bypass the law. And there's a lot of them, at least I've listened to some who work on these issues, so in large companies, and it's terribly bypassing and abuses this law. I therefore propose and accept this proposal that we really cannot accept this law by procedure 105. I'd like to pray, I don't know if you don't do it again, but I want to be very good with my kolegij, don't want to get involved again. But, please, especially with Mr. Jaferovic really, I mean, it doesn't make sense. But if you can influence the Council of Ministers, do not do such things under Article 105. And this parliament has become a member of 105, and what do you want from this Parliament? We simply accept to hear, and where it is heard, no one thinks, and it seems that you want to make a transfer to hear, and where it is heard, no one thinks, and it seems that you want to transfer this Parliament so that no one makes any remarks. The Council of Ministers has an ideal concept, an ideal concept. He sees all things and he can suggest and be sure and confident that this is the best thing he can accept. Please, that's why I accept this proposal to go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22549	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. So this is a proposal from the Council of Ministers that we must conduct business. The College cannot alter the request of the Council of Ministers. We're sorry sometimes, or we usually think the same way you do, but we have business to do. The word was sought by Beriz Belkić, so Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22550	Of course, I will join all of these criticisms that Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Križanović and Mr. Kunić have both made, because they are correct and justified, etc. However, the question arises what we achieve if today we say we are going to regular procedure, etc. If you carefully pay attention to the essence of the proposal, practically 28 legal vacuums are covered. By extending the deadlines by not passing the law, we use this empty vacuum practically and we cooperate and extend it. I fully agree with what it is that we can discuss what it is that we should refer to the Council of Ministers, or let's say the Ministry as a criticism, as our request for some kind of responsibility, etc., but deciding today to go to the regular procedure we practically extend that legal vacuum and I am more inclined to accept this requirement anyway to end this thing because they finally established the Agency for Appeals, etc. the office of appeals and to sort of refer to the Council of Ministers' criticism. We've discussed this ten times because of this extension of deadlines, etc. But we won't do anything if we put things back in the regular procedure now, because the Constitutional and Legal Commission won't have the instruments that Jozo was talking about to sort of reconsider responsibility, etc. Council of Ministers. Responsibility is what Mr. Špirić said who thinks one should have a list there of Gligorić noses, so be my guest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22551	Thank you. My kolegica Milićević asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22552	Thank you. I would like to say, in addition to the fact that we will not in principle support procedure 105, which is known to always be against this procedure and that we will not be part of the fact that we turned into 105, that this proposal is a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement if it is true, and I have no doubt that it was adopted at the 105th session, held on 26 January, by the Council of Ministers, and today it is 7 March. Why did he wait 40 days to pick up 105th of this House? Secondly, together with the people sitting on the committee in charge, we are witnessing that people from around the world come to us, from representatives of the World Bank, from different organisations and most interested in the area of public procurement. As we legally framed her, how we have control, who is responsible and why it has waited more than a year for the establishment of the agency, this office of appeal. We have made a half-step, and now we are late with this step, and this Parliament needs to amnesty. I can't understand that a legal vacuum has appeared in the absence of security of office space, equipment and necessary perpetrators. We make all the time, make the roof, then we build something under the roof. How people could be accepted, named for some function, and it wasn't said that there was a table and a couple of chairs in there that people were sitting and now they need to be regulated legally, means a vacuum that was the result of not providing space. Well, when we passed the law, I guess, as far as I know, it's been said that all the conditions have been met, just waiting for this Parliament to pass the Law on Public Procurement, and now it turns out, which is very often for us as Parliament to do our part. We passed the law a long time ago, but someone else didn't do their part of the job. For that reason, I won't vote, and as far as the conclusions are concerned, in this regard, we've had our conclusions, I think a few times that it's necessary to name this office if someone had taken this seriously, he would have provided the offices first, so I'd say here we called the competition. And that's why we have, I'm very uncomfortable, we have that point of the agenda, those conclusions that we have today, so that's the people of our collection, that's the collection of this home, and unfortunately that should be framed when we're done here, that's proof of what we've all had to do, what we should have done. But when we look at the results of our evidence, it means our results. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22553	I thank my colleague Milićević. Dr. Crescent. Živković. Please about the procedure only if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22554	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we had come into a situation that we were practically arguing about the procedure here and that only for formal reasons, because we would not support the procedure, we would not have a solution. Solution, because we don't have a solution right now. Let's leave aside who's been here for three years, who's supposed to solve it, who's supposed to suggest that this vacuum be put aside, etc. etc. But we have a solution here right now. Now the question is whether or not we're going to accept it, or we're going to keep leaving it the way it's been for the last 3.5 years. For this reason, think about it as a procedure, but actually had a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22555	I thank my colleague Živković. Who's moving on? No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. So we're voting on Article 105's procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 26, versus 5, 2 abstentions. 21 from the Federation, 5 from Republika Srpska. I agree that the procedure of Member 105 was adopted at the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH by an urgent procedure. So, we're crossing over, opening the discussion for content. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to plead with the law. Vote now. I find that with 32 votes for, 9 against, no one abstention, 24 from the Federation, 6 from Republika Srpska, we have adopted the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and thus gained the conditions to move to the fourth item of the agenda, but before moving to a new point, I am giving a half-hour break at the request of the HDZ Democratic Club, unless I made a mistake. So a half-hour break, but please start at 12 o'clock. Please, colleagues who asked for a break and all of you to be in the O.R. in time. Gentlemen, I suggest that the MPs sit in their seats and continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We expect the rest of the HDZ Club to join us. We have a quorum. We can work. 30 Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The request of MPs Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Šefik Džaferović to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, Dama and gentlemen, are familiar with the situation regarding this law. You know, on a proposal from the savjetaministar, he was in the procedure of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH and that he was adopted in both homes, but in different texts. In the process of harmonising the identical text of the law in the Joint Commission, amendment number I to the House of Representatives and amendments I to the House of Peoples were agreed. The subject of further harmonisation in the Joint Commission was Amendment XI to Article 17 and Amendment XII to Article 18. It's a bill of law. These amendments are in the House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples adopted the text proposed by the Council of Ministers. So these two amendments were not, these two amendments were not agreed, and therefore, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the bill fell. sobzir that this law is necessary and that it is a condition for our European Atlantic integration, we, as MEPs, delivered the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights to the Parliament procedure on 23 February. The draft law that we delivered in the procedure contains a text agreed on by the joint commission of both homes. The text includes an amendment agreed on by the Joint Commission, which concerns Article 1 laying down the seat of the Ombudsman for human rights. Amendments were also incorporated that were not controversial, which were adopted at this home and the House of Peoples. As the joint commission could not agree with the amendment of the House of Representatives to Articles 17 and 18, we proposed in this proposal the text originally proposed by the Council of Ministers. Here are my notes and also an explanation of the bill and the urgent procedure requirements. I also propose to the House that, given these circumstances, it accepts an emergency procedure and adopts this law in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given page 5 in your break. A technical error has been stolen. We leveled it in the College on Article 17. So I ask you to consider this page 5, which you have received, an integral part of the text of the Law, because the error in Article 17. What would be very good is why I ask your understanding today to achieve strength, therefore, was a long debate in an attempt to agree in both homes, and it seems to me that there are no other fundamental differences that are impossible to overcome and, in that sense, the College has tried to propose everything that both homes have agreed on. We think that there were irrelevant differences that slowed down or that led to the law not being passed. 31 Therefore I give thanks to all the colleagues on behalf of the College, who have made a contribution in the joint commission to agree on what they could agree on. I think that my colleague Gligorić defended the views of our home on this committee, and we as the House to come to a good law, of course, with today's statement, we can change our attitude and come and therefore ask today to adopt both the procedure and the proposal of this law and another note. I would like to welcome Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, our longtime member of the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples, a friend who is zealously doing this job and who has shown great understanding regarding both the course of development and the agreement of this legal project and, on behalf of and on behalf of the College, I thank him and welcome him on behalf of yours. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22556	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I have prayed that at the beginning of the agenda and asked my colleagues to have understanding, but well, business is both such an opportunity or an inability to simply be classified as a mandatory item of the agenda. But here's a chance to remind ourselves of some things about the amendment and addition of this law. The chairman cited what the commissions had done at both homes and it is true that I was a member of the commission outside the House of Representatives. I tried to defend two amendments to the House of Representatives. One part of the uncontested amendments we agreed, but the two remaining disputed, which is the transitional period of the ombusman or the occupier, as anyone pronounces, from the year I consider it necessary to make a quality transition to the single institution of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman, and I represent it and consider it also as a man to simply do so normally. We know what human rights ombsmen have done in Bosnia and Herzegovina and what they are expected to do, that practically only citizens before them could exercise their rights, or they could complain to someone. This is also said by the number of items they had on tens of thousands, etc., which says human rights are being violated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're not going to say now that in other countries we have an ombusman at the level of municipalities, at the level of the region, at the level of canton, depending on the state. This is where a single institution is wanted, and this is recommended by the Council of Europe and fine. But, but this second amendment that we haven't accepted, aside from this transitional period, it's to call a contest to make new appointments. I cannot understand that from the Strasbourg Council of Europe, or the EU from Brussels, they are just asking how we will humanely resolve the issue. It has nothing to do with what this law requires to unite that institution, which is not disputed with me personally or anyone who sits here. Now that I have taken over this amendment that you have taken, or excluded these from the House of Representatives, and taken over the text of the House of Peoples, or the Council of Ministers, and when you said that I was defending these amendments to the House of Representatives, I would also like you as a College to go by that logic, rather than neglecting what we did in Parliament and you went to the second home proposal. But I won't even talk about it. I'm talking about us. Dear Members of Parliament, we have voted here for human rights ombs 2/3 of the majority in the basic law, the current law of five years. Now we ask the amendments to the contest, that 32 of that deadline, that the simple majority is chosen, and not 2/3 of the question is now being asked if we are talking and we are filled with the mouth of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, people who are piemonto, people who have been able to help other people, give a co-operation, and everyone has made a positive statement about them are now violating their human rights. So I ask Mr. Mariofil Ljubić whether his human rights and his colleagues are being violated. I think they're breaking up. Parliament once voted 2/3 for a five-year term. If in this country we destabilise this trust, or we demonstrate our mistrust in the largest institution such as this legislative body. So people where we'll end up in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then everything is subject to change and whims. I have information that some of them settled there that one couldn't go to the Constitutional Court, so he has a short pension of three years, so it should go this way because the salary is the same as the judges of the Constitutional Court, so he can transfer three years plus, because he doesn't retire early. Don't ask me in this MP to run someone's personnel policy through the form of Euro-Atlantic integration. Do not set a party standard, a party agreement and an interest in raising the interest of the international norm in Strasbourg or Brussels. We have another programme, MPs from Republika Srpska. The National Assembly said there was a need to request a transfer of jurisdiction. And you know that they condemned us there as some traitors. Well, I don't hold much to it, 'cause there's these party turbulences there, too. But it is perfectly normal as a transfer of jurisdiction we must respect because it stands in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where entities are agreed, you can carry out a transfer of jurisdiction. And if one institution has disputed that, then how can we ignore this parliament and co-operation with Parliament at some lower level? If anything should be appreciated for some other reasons, at least collegiately. At the same time, we have another problem. Who's going to do it now, because you need to look on the practical side. Well, there are most of you who will vote it, no matter how many of these anomalies, and when we get to, do you watch the Members of Parliament do it on the practical side? How to realize. Whoever does the sublegislative acts, the regulations on systemization, the budget and all of those, these jobs that need to be done by someone in the transitional period, and you've shortened their transitional period, because it's a river by the end of this year, as you gentlemen have proposed. You took their time from the year it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22557	In a year's time, the child walks tiho.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22558	Well, it's possible, but I'm talking about, well, then why didn't this parliament use three years to discuss, the good Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, but here you're all talking. Where's Lagumdžija now, he's gone to me. Okay, I'm talking to him, I have a special story when I test him on this initiative. That's why I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22559	Wait a minute, let's listen to our colleague and stick to it, so we're talking procedure, he explains why it's not for Article 105's procedure. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22560	So I ask you to give me the college interpretation when the law fell in the last session we had information that the commission had not reached an agreement, and in our law it says in Article 33 100 that the law had fallen. In some countries, it is precise, and it says, "You can't do it in six months, you can't do it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Srspka, when I mention it." You can't put that law in there. I believe that with what we have been saying to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers should have informed that it was correct to return it to the executive authority, inform her of this and let them send these amendments to the proposal. It wouldn't be too late, but this is how you feel if someone was courting someone from the international community, someone was good, cooperative, and here's Gligorić, for example, not. We don't need that. This is the most sensitive law regarding human rights violations, and until now this parliament has violated human rights through law-making. We have brought such legal solutions that now some institutions will force us to change them, and we are once again on the path to violate human rights here and these people who represent the interests of others, so please simply human, professional, collegiate, irresponsible, irresponsible, whatever you want to think about and not vote for Article 105. At least let's give it a chance, even though it's wise for you from the College to figure it out. If it doesn't pass in 105, it will go on a regular basis, so keep it in Parliament. It's not much of a joke to you. But okay, just so you know, I'm reading you. In this case, at least let the Chans act on something with the amendments. If a few years of debate has been held, the commissions have agreed, this Parliament, called on these people to contribute, and I guess their opinion should be taken into account in the sense that we are present. We ignored it all, and now we want 105th without being able to change the decimal or the comma. So at least give it to your colleagues, please put it back in the regular procedure, give us a chance to invite these people, take their opinion and change it ourselves and give us that chance. Don't pretend to be us, and that's why it's my fault that the College made a deal and that he used his position that you have to create a new situation for us. You have the right as MPs, just three MPs, which isn't one, exactly three, it's probably because of someone who looks at you on the side, so you sent, and then you're in the College at the same time, so you suggested there, and then you create a new situation in which you shape everything in your own hands. E Parliament is not a college, Parliament is not three people. I guess we'll get along with our colleagues, dear and co-worker. So I ask you to consider, to reject 105 and at least give us a chance to fix us being MPs, to simply respond to our task both to the Rules of Procedure and to the citizens to resolve this issue. And don't say what I said about some people's home, that's something else, don't let the House of Nations practically be the center, the brain of those jobs that we have to do in the Rules of Procedure. Think about it the same way, because so far it has happened several times in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22561	I thank Mr. Gligorić. The speaker of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22562	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I ask my fellow Members that, as we from the College, we have a positive approach when it comes to discussions between MPs, that individuals are also trying to find a positive tone towards the College. It's not a college that's making up traps, who's up for fraud, who's working on 34 bypassing laws and procedures, but trying to do a job that's in the interest of the citizens of this country. And that's why I'm asking you whenever you're trying to talk to me, you have to understand that we're talking about everything. You see, there are a lot of things that we in the College don't agree with, and we don't hesitate to bring it to Parliament for you to say the final word. And today the final word of the Kolegijum's consent has this home. But I think the College did a good thing. I was prepared to propose article 105. I am grateful to my colleagues from the College who presented this initiative, supported and I think that today this will get not 2/3 of the majority, this proposal, but an almost absolute majority, because this is in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now to remind the cleavages that speak, it's not the original law, it's the amendments and the additions of the law. So I am grateful to all my colleagues who have taken a step forward to get a good text for which many colleagues here could also make an observation as to why there is not only one ombusman, but they have three. So why is the seat changed, etc. etc. So, don't make such a debate, let's try to get to the law. It is not prohibited if people think they have a majority to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the law to conduct political dialogues with colleagues from other political parties to change such a law, if they do not think it is good. That is the meaning of political struggle, parliamentary democracy and dialogue that should be exude in this parliament as well. I don't hesitate to stop in public and think this isn't the best possible solution in the world, but it's best possible in, which we've come to at this point. I don't think Bosnia and Herzegovina needs public observation, especially from the inside of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and let alone that it has not met the conditions that we can meet here today by adopting this law. So I don't have any complex that maybe the House of Nations proposal was better and closer to adoption than ours. And I have to remind you that it was part of the political arrangements, too, because we were the first to discuss this law and we were distracted that we had adopted something that was not in line with standards, so then the House of Peoples tried to take a step back to bring us closer and bring us into a position to adopt something that will not have a message from the international community tomorrow that is in collegiate with the standards that we want to pursue. I'm not afraid, especially I'm not the kind of man who's paying attention to what someone's gonna say to me on this side or on the other side, but I have to tell you that I like it when someone says I'm a little bit and I understand something. So, there's no need here today for anyone to be courted and I'm asking all my colleagues today, so to avoid it, let's repeat the debate. I also told my colleague Gligorić that he was defending the attitudes of our home, but Dom can judge that it's more useful to pass the law than to be advocating behind attitudes to get this back into the regular procedure, to reopen the amendment phase and lose half a year, or a year. I'm just saying let's distinguish what's more useful at this point. So I call upon all those who think similarly about supporting this law today, and I am convinced that it will be so and therefore I am grateful to everyone both in the joint commission and in both homes who have tried to reach that proposal. It is very important that colleagues, existing occupiers are not forbidden to appear at the competition. If they're the best they'll ever be, they'll be out there again. If there's any better than them, this country will choose better. It's quite simple. I don't see any reason that human rights have been violated, that human rights are being violated by changing the law. Although that's possible, but it's not intentional, I guess none of us were of that nature. I thank and therefore invite everyone so that we don't go into unnecessary replicas, but simply discuss procedure. I was free to say what made me look for Article 105's procedure, because I think if we don't do it, we're doing more damage to 35 of our country's citizens, we're doing it in a regular procedure and we're outsmarting ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22563	I thank Mr. Špirić. The word has Mrs. Mara Perkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22564	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will fully support Mr Gligorić's discussion and I will raise two reasons why procedure 105 cannot be supported. Under number 1 for the reason that it is not respected, because although it is a matter of amending and supplementing the law, it is an additional transfer of jurisdiction from two entities to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and must comply with the transposition procedure which has its own rules. Under number two, to further examine whether our decisions violate the human rights of the refugees who are required to protect human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've been witnessing here for a year that one thing that can't be closed in the eyes, which is that the relationship with these refugees is such that neither the law on the Ombudsman nor the law on amending and supplementing the law on human rights is respected. For what reason. Because by passing our law on amending and supplementing the law, we've demanded that the salaries of an outcast be identified, which is not respected today. Legislative questions have been asked, conclusions have been reached. What does that say about this country? If the human rights of those who are there are not respected in the institution to protect the human rights of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? In what way will their human rights be protected? If we are the legislative authority that violates existing laws and decisions with its subsequent laws, then what is the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I therefore suggest that space be left to review this disputed point of the law in order to obtain a quality law that does not give any doubt that this institution can do as it pleases, or that the laws can be changed overnight. Or we pass the law and then we pass an amendment to the law that is in conflict with the existing points of the law. And on the other hand, this law in some of its points does not comply with the laws concerning the Labour and Labour Law. It's high time to respect it, because the people who suffer in that process are not seen by anyone. Who will protect their human rights? If a person is admitted to a working relationship within a specified period of time and indefinitely
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22565	I'm begging you the story is about the procedure, and if we're talking about the essence, you can. I don't mind, you can finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22566	I just want to draw attention to how significant this is, significantly from the aspect of human rights, because if we violate today the human rights of the Ombudsman, who we have authorised to protect human rights, I wonder how human rights of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be protected. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22567	Thank you. Who's next to the word? No oneZe calling. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. We're voting on procedure. Vote now. - For 26, against 6.1 abstention. 20 from the Federation, 6 from RS. I agree that we have an entity majority and a total majority and that we have accepted the request of MPs Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Džaferović Šefik to discuss the Amendments and Supplements Act on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. I urge you to prepare to vote on this law. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the law, because the procedure was accepted by 105. Please. There is no debate if procedure 105 is accepted. He's losing the point of the debate. Article 105. Yeah, now we can discuss it, but we can't change it. So, I'm opening a debate. Okay. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can't change anything, then. We can discuss as much as we want now. Dr. Crescent. Here you go, you Lagumdžija. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22568	Mr. Chairman, I would ask you, since you are, we have supported this, having full confidence in the College that you are, that what they say is a serious consideration. Can you explain to us now, can you explain to us, especially from the point of view of what was adopted in this home and what was adopted in the House of Nations and what was then practically not agreed. To tell us nicely what is essential, so to speak, what are the fundamental changes to what we have adopted in this home, that is, the House of Peoples. To explain this to us a little bit, because you know by Article 105, there are two possibilities to do so. Or it's too simple, so it can, and I don't see it as simple. Or it's too urgent, so yes, I accept that this is an emergency. But it's not simple, so I'd like to ask you to explain as proposings so that we can make a quality determination.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22569	I thank my colleague Lagumdžija. I'll take it, forgive it right now, I was saying it in the opening part when you were out, but I'm taking the opportunity to repeat it, and I'm sorry you were out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22570	No, I've been listening here, Mr. Špirić. I haven't been outside, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22571	Anyway, I didn't mean to object.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22572	No, no, what you were saying, if you think you're saying again, you didn't answer my question. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22573	I don't mean to repeat it at all then, nor do I intend to please you at all. I'm the chairman here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22574	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22575	So there's no need for the chairman to please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22576	You're a man of too serious age to be able to please anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22577	I did. Assume.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22578	I'd like to ask, and there's no need for you to offer it to me. So I'd like to ask you to make a commitment after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22579	Obviously what I said doesn't satisfy you and I have no intention of answering it, and you have the right to vote as you wish. Who's next to the word? Ljilja Milićević. Here you go. It's hard for me to understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22580	Thank you, it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22581	Well, you've got to be mad, but you can stay pregnant. Here you go, Ljiljo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22582	You know what, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but elementary courtesy and that's what you should say, but not that we're warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22583	Yes, and I thank you, but you must have the same relationship with me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22584	That's the first thing for now and for the moment. That's the first one. Secondly, just before Mrs. Perkanović spoke, you warned her to discuss the procedure. Now that we've asked, when it's over with the procedure and voted to talk about the law, you say what you have to say now, this is 105. I think let's set up 38.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22585	There's been an open discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22586	I can see how it's open. What am I saying? I can, my objection to this bill, and that's an observation I've already made to a few laws, and I want to point out that this is not happening to us, because this is one practice for me without precedent. Article 5(3) - the salary of the Ombudsman is determined at the level of the judge's salary of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've had this for the auditor, we've had this a few times before. We got paid by the Constitutional Court judge like that new era. Before the new era, after the new era. I'm expecting some more billing, so it's going to write that has 30% salary of the Constitutional Court judge, this one's going to have half, this one 100%. This is inappropriate for one law, a serious law, to treat it this way, and it's all clear to me on the basis of a sentence like this, as it was for the auditor all of it, and now I'm just clear why this is 105th and why it's such an emergency procedure. This is one of these reasons, the way this has been elaborated by colleagues is one of the reasons, but I no longer have any law, even though it said that all MPs of this assembly will have the salary and pension of the Constitutional Court judge and up to 75 can work – I will not vote because this is not the place in the law. And that's why I'm gonna talk about it and they're all the way out here. The next member is told that other employees will have salaries consistent with the salaries of civil servants and we are the only ones making one elite, and that elite is called a protected name, I fear the twilight zone where everything is equal to the judges of the Constitutional Court. I'm surprised the Constitutional Court didn't sit down and make one decision recommending that we don't take their mouths and accidentally don't put them into the law. Because this has become ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22587	I thank my colleague Milićević. So I'm asking you to explain. You'll get a doctor. I'll swear. First I want to apologize for the words I use. So it's my turn to do it. You have to understand that today is not easy for me to run this session because you don't want to help me, if you want, you can continue. I just need to find a way out of all this. My Kolegice Milićević, the task of the College was that what was agreed on, I can now agree with you, meaning that everything that was agreed in two homes was preserved, and then the debate was held. I remember well. So we only offered a harmonised text. What we couldn't agree on was why we didn't want to touch, but we didn't want it to be the reason for the move and the adoption of the law. Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22588	I didn't know who the chairman apologized to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22589	To you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22590	I can hardly take this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22591	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22592	It's a unique, imaginative principle of your behavior, of proscration, and you're an expert in proscration. I am no match for you, I must confess that here in Parliament. I'm nowhere near that. Well, I'd like to ask Mr. Džaferović to bear in mind that from your circle he chaired one of the pro-paints said this way which is not polite, you have to admit. Far more intense than I am today... Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22593	You don't understand, away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22594	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22595	Thank you. Who's next to the word? If I may, please, Mr. Sipović. Here you go. Help if you want, if you don't want me to do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22596	...to colleagues who are entitled to support them and I find it constructive. I mean, I totally understood what the College did to both the chairman and the honourable Dr. MP, I have one human trait that we still have to respect our chairman, our chairman for the dignity of the House while they're here. And I mean, I'm giving full support, and I'm also asking the chairman and the two chairmans to respect my fellow colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I think we need to be at that level while you're here, that we're keeping home and I'm protecting myself and I'm supporting you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22597	I thank my colleague Sipović for these words. Who's next to the word? Marija Perkanović please. Is it a replica or a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22598	I'm just going to replicate a little bit to Mr. Sipović's colleague for the reason that this is a democratic order and that we must respect each other equally and that there is no authority. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22599	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. Sipović replica, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22600	Dear colleagues, I'll be very brief. I am absolutely in favour of a democratic act and I recognize myself for being democratically appreciated, although someone may like it, but it does not mean insults, disrespects, insults to each other that it is democracy. That leads to anarchy. So if we don't respect our homes and our colleagues, then don't, don't change the thesis please. I respect you, but don't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22601	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Is it a replica or a discussion? You discussed it once. Replica, just so I know, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22602	So is there a limited number of discussions in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22603	I'm asking you, there's no need, you'll get both discussion and both, just so we know what it is. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22604	What happened between Professor Two Professors? Špirić and Kunić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22605	Please, we're not equal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22606	Okay, well, I thought I'd say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22607	I'm a regular professor. He's a colleague, please let him know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22608	Okay, the difference is like the sky and the earth, right? Come on, let's do it. But there are professors, too, and there are those professors from Branko Radičević, that better ahead of the arms than with a trace of hitting the cats. It is human, what matters. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22609	Mr. Gligorić, you want to be obvious about the subject, or you're gonna be kidding around. If you're gonna mess around, I'm gonna have to do something different.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22610	Mr. Chairman, I'll discuss it constructively.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22611	That's what I expect of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22612	Here, since Mr. Lagumdžija asked that question, you've skillfully read what others were doing, the commissions, this home, the second home, and you've given it nicely as if it were yours. But you've violated the Rules of Procedure because as legislators, I think all three of you were obliged to explain as proposings. Don't get cocky and take other people's work, but gentlemen you're MPs, you have amendments and additions to the law come out for a pay phone and say we changed it for that, give an explanation. And all that it takes to get through. You've made us, you've accomplished your purpose, you've sat there like three wise men, and you've done how to get us back in the game and you've done it. You did it, but at the same time why you weren't correct, don't be angry now, I know you are, I know I'm homogenizing you against myself now, I know it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22613	I'm begging you, there's no homogenizing. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22614	But, no, no, but you're in charge of the Rules of Procedure, I just want to do business. According to the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to agree as legislators on who will be as one rapporteur, it is no problem and really nice for a pay phone and give it. It's you who vote for 105. No more changes and nothing more, and the story is over. That's not it. So please respect
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22615	We got it, we got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22616	Here says Ruža we voted. That's why when we spoke in advance at that time, so we have to tell the MPs to get one play, maybe people didn't want to get into it in detail, and then you're not going to give it back then, but you're going to give it a post-festum. And then we come here, says my colleague Ruža, we voted. Well, but we're not going to violate human rights in this country to those who need to protect other human rights. I won't do it in this country for no one, and there's no authority to obey it if we violate human rights in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22617	Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22618	For me, the citizens voted, and I want it so that
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22619	Great. Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. Please, I've given an explanation introductoryly in the name of the College, speaking again. I'm probably giving it to some people for the right to say it's not enough. Maybe it's not enough. People aren't happy with the answer. They will therefore have their own relationship with this law. I can't affect that. So, I beg you, so I can't give you another explanation than I gave you. It's obviously not enough for some. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 26, 5 against, 3 abstentions. 21 from the Federation, 5 from RS. I therefore agree that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted by an urgent procedure, at the request of MP Nikola Špirić, Martin Raguž and Šefik Džaferović. Dear colleagues, I thank you all for making a contribution. One more time, I apologize if I've irritated someone with my story. It wasn't intentional. Understand that it's not easy to run this whole thing, so once again I apologize, it's not my intention to hurt anyone or to belittle or compare myself to anyone. Thank you all for contributing to this important law, as I will make a contribution if someone initiates an initiative to change what they think is wrong. We're moving to Day 5, Mr. Ad.5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers delivered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a request to be considered under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. You've won the bill. I'm opening a motion hearing. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 29 votes in favour of, 2 against, 1 abstention, therefore, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 43 We move to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Commission's Finance Report and the Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on the additional value of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for a Commission report on finance and budget has not been reached. I'm putting the voting report in the second round. You know the voting procedure. Therefore, the Commission's report was negative. So it's just a vote. This is the procedure when you just vote. The Commission's report was negative, but had no entity support. So now it is voted, if the Commission's report is adopted, the law has fallen, if it refuses to go into further procedure, the Finance and Budget Commission. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22620	First, this is VAT law, which introduces zeros on bread, milk and medicine. The Commission's report was to refuse, therefore, to remain 17% for all. Now who votes for the Commission's report, it is to remain 17% for bread, milk, medicines. Whoever votes for the Commission's report votes for bread, milk and drugs to remain 17%. He's just trying to get information so it's clear there wouldn't be a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22621	Please, we are voting on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22622	And listing please. Let's see who's up for bread, milk and medicine. HDZ, U.S.A. and U.S.A. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22623	For 18, against 16, a abstention of no one. So, we have, just a little bit, give us back the report. It's 18, against 16 and no one abstentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22624	So, the report's over, the law's down.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22625	Yes, yes, the Commission's report was accepted. Wait a minute. It's 18, so for the report, 16 against and no one abstentioned. He doesn't have a majority of RS. This is the second round. This is definitely no further vote. 44 You're asking for a re-election. Prepare to vote. Vote now. This is just a voting procedure. There's no argument. For 17, against 17, a abstention of no one, yet no report was accepted. There's no general majority. Don't get that. He doesn't even have a simple majority. Here's to Branka's interpretation. Well, hold on a second. It's easy to sit in the back benches and say men like that, you know. So, a re-vote was requested. Is he looking for someone to repeat the vote or should we explain this result? He's looking for a SDA club to repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 18, against 16, there are no abstentions. So, like the first time. The Commission's report has been accepted, the law has fallen. That's an interpretation. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22626	Can we get a list of Mr. Špirić before we move to the next point? I don't believe anything of this. It's been painted three times.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22627	Give me a list, after the vote. We're going to the 7th point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22628	A break until I get a list. I'm looking for a break until I get a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22629	Please, last list. No more repetitive voting. Don't make a circus. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to agenda seven. Please, a wave of patience and silence. Let's get this over with. Ad.7. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Commission's report on finance and the budget on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on an additional value, MEP Jozo Križanović also reached no agreement on this report by the Finance and Budget Commission. We are going to the second round of voting according to the same principle, Mr. Križanović, as Zlatko explained earlier. If the Commission report is accepted, the law has fallen, unless it goes into further procedure. No discussion, we're just going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22630	Let me just point out what this is about. This is about the Bill on Value Added Tax, which refers to publishing, information and disability aids. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22631	Thank you. Prepare to vote. No discussion, it's just a vote. Momo, do you want a word? I beg you, there's only a vote left. No, no one can get a word for it. Prepare to vote. Vote now on the Commission's report. For 18, against 17, no one abstentioned. I find that this report has been accepted, as has the previous point. You can take the listing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22632	Just before 18 - 16.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22633	Well, what difference does it make, someone changed their sightings. What can you do with it? Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22634	Let us question the credibility of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22635	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22636	We're looking for a re-election and a listing. Look out, there were 18 - 16, 17 - 17, and 18 - 16. So, in the woods, we were always the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22637	Dr Lagumdžija requests a re-election. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We'll do it again. I've got patience, you can play all you want. I'm begging you, since we seem to want to turn this into a party, there's nothing I can do for you. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 17 – versus 17. The HDZ is asking for a repeat vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 18, against 16, a abstention of no one. The Commission therefore accepted the report. The law isn't passed. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. I'm asking you to list Dr. Lagumdžija, he asked for it. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, first reading This legislative proposal is under the procedure laid down in Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We adopted the Council of Ministers' request for this procedure at the 73rd session. The Constitutional and Legal 46 Commission delivered its opinion on 2 February. You received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 3 March 2006. You've seen the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopt 15 amendments. The name of the law has been changed. At the plenary stage, we didn't get the amendment. We're in first reading right now and I'm opening a first-reading debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22638	I thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, given that I was the proposing Group of Amendments, which is practically not only a changed name but also a whole text of the law and thus practically introduced into legal norms, means, which apply here in BiH, therefore, in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law in BiH, while the Law respects and intensities, not only in European countries where we also have the Convention on the Combating War, the Consequences of War Crimes, etc. I would like to thank, above all, the understanding of the people of OHR and the OSCE, with whom I worked together on these amendments, to get an acceptable law. Given that the new law has practically changed principles, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, conditions have been met to vote on these principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22639	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Dr Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22640	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here's a fine example of how the bill promoter comes out and gives us the basics, but let's not always tell the same story and the accusation. In my time I was against the commission phase on the Constitutional and Legal Commission when we received this text from the Council of Ministers, which also violated human rights, you simply did not have when suspicion was established, you without evidence blocked the account and prevented the practical functioning of even the family of an x-man. It was not known in that basic text, the proposal that came to us from the Council of Ministers, in its own time and now what Mr. Novaković was saying, was removed. It had to be, this is just saying that non-serious laws come from the Council of Ministers. You had to change your name, you had to change 75 members. You had to make almost a new text in order to keep this part, too, to import.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22641	Are you talking about this part that you have or something that has been changed?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22642	No, no, about what's now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22643	Well, miss this, don't be shy. Imagine, I can't understand you. You're talking about something that's changed and what you agree is wrong. At least tell me I support this, this is fine. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22644	My dear friends, this is Parliament. What Mr. Novaković is doing and what we are changing and what we are going to support, in relation to the bad text that came from the Council of Ministers, is the work of Parliament and MPs, and not what you do freshen our imagination, we can't do anything and then we're good and obedient guys. Don't be a nervous chairman. We are now talking about good work as an MP. I was against it, too, at first, but this is a good job now. This is how we need to change the other laws that come to us. If you think what comes from the Council of Ministers that's the greatest sense, what we're going to do as Parliament, let's disband. We can be like Parliament and disband. So please, I support this, but I also support this work. I also support if we didn't violate human rights, but if we were as disciplined and obedient as you in the College, we would have passed that law and then after a few months someone would have realized that human rights were being violated. There's a difference between us. Access is responsible and professional that Parliament is changing a bad norm.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22645	If I didn't know what agenda we were at, I wouldn't know what law it was, because you never mentioned it once.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22646	Temporary measures, Mr Špirić, and these temporary measures, as suggested by the Council of Ministers, which you support would be a great evil, and so we had to do our best and I personally tried. I've had numerous conversations with Mr. Novaković to come up with these solutions, and I'm glad, such co-operation is good, it's constructive co-operation. But it's not worth talking to the deaf, except when the command votes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22647	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Who's next to the word? Dr Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22648	Obviously, with some tension we started today's session and that, apparently, heavy words are coming down here. I don't think anyone deserves to be treated like this, especially since the Constitutional and Legal Commission, if we're going to be right, has practically violated the Rules of Procedure of the Dibious Soul. You can't pass one law that's no good, so you can pass another law to that same constitutional commission, which, absolutely, violates the whole principles of the law that came from the Council of Ministers, so that you actually take a new law and consider it and bring amendments to it and bring that law here. The procedure was meant to be, that the law should be brought down, that Mr. Novaković gave the new law and that we were discussing the new law. So, and the Constitutional and Legal Commission, if we're actually going to make a complete mistake, but we're not here, I see that there's been enough understanding and enough between ourselves, of course, they're working together with the Proposer, that we're going to adopt this law today, then it would be good to go back to that basis and discuss this law without talking about what it was in any way, and I think it would be good to discuss it now just now about this proposed law. Thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22649	I thank my colleague Živković. Wrong quote by Dr Gligorić. Let's just take a minute. I can see there's no amendment for us to finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22650	Mr. Chairman and Dr. Živković, I don't think anything has been broken, but the MP has used his business rights. If we're making a comparison to remind you, you've made a budget amendment for Mr. Lagumdžija's census in time, so if you're already talking and you want to say something is a business thing, then it was the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. So, we have to take care of it, now we're one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22651	Thank you. I'm begging you, just give me a minute. It's a good thing the Constitutional and Legal Commission did the job. It's a good thing we got the law without amendments. It is a sign that those who put forth effort, put forth effort, and that we can pass the law. Now, come on, if anyone has any objections to the law or if they don't, there's no amendment not to talk about anything but the law. I'm just asking you that, if you don't mind. A colleague of Sipović. Comrade Ćeman, if not, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has done a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22652	I'd just like an esteemed fellow replica. I thank my esteemed colleague for what the Constitutional and Legal Commission did, is proof that they were extremely constructive, and we did not violate the Rules of Procedure because we voted and these amendments were an integral part of the proposed law. Therefore, as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, headed by our President, Ćeman Mirsada, I think that in this way, we have just shown maturity as a commission of the working body of this home, that we can propose to this home in the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22653	Thank you. No Niko's answering for a hearing anymore. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So I figure with 25 votes in, 2 against, 5 abstentions. 16 from the Federation and 9 from Republika Srpska, adopted the Law on the application of certain p... measures to effectively implement the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and other international destructive measures in the first reading. Since there has been no amendment, the amendments have not arrived, I'm asking if you're here to conduct this law and the second reading of this law. 49 Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 27, versus 4, abstention 2. I find that we have a majority and an entity majority and we have decided to discuss this law in a second reading. I'm opening a discussion in another reading. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I figure with 25 votes in, three against, four abstentions. So we have a majority and an entity majority, passed the Law on the application of certain provisional measures in order to effectively implement the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and other international restructuring measures. In our second reading, we passed that law. So, we've acquired the conditions to move to the 9th point of the agenda. Ad.9. The proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, first reading, MP Momčilo Novaković, Poslanik Novaković, submitted the bill on 16 January 2006, with a request for consideration under Article 105. At the 73rd session, the House did not adopt an emergency procedure application, so the bill is being considered in regular procedure. As competent to consider this legislative proposal, the College has designated a Constitutional and Legal Commission. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on February 2nd. The report was submitted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 3 March and sent to you by fax. You saw the report, the Commission supported the bill's proposal in the proposed text and concluded that there was no amendment at the commission stage either. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22654	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I have been very often reading the reports of the Commission on Human Rights, and especially the last to speak of the state of human rights at the Penalty-Agreement Institute in Zenica, I have come across findings that certain rights of prisoners are being violated for various reasons now. These institutions were also often defended by the view that they had too many prisoners, that they had no conditions, that they classified them in different departments, but that the same department had prisoners for different serious and easier crimes, which, of course, did not comply with the standards in this area. For these reasons, I have decided to propose a law supplementing the law, which, practically, gives the Ministry of Justice the opportunity to move prisoners across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prevent what I was talking about earlier. This is the key reason why we propose this law and the key principle, or my intention, was, in fact, to prevent in this way human rights violations of prisoners, on the other hand, from applying European standards. That this is just one conclusion on the report on the state of human rights in the KPZ of the closed type in Zenica, which our commission has given so far – the Commission requires the competent state and entity authorities of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska to solve 50 cases of beating up prisoners of Serbian and Croatian nationalities in the KPZ of the closed type in Zenica to ensure that their human rights and freedoms are fully protected in accordance with international conventions for the protection of human rights and freedoms as well as domestic rules, and inform this commission. So this sentence was what asked me to propose a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22655	I thank my colleague Novaković. The word was requested by a colleague, Ćeman, from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22656	In fact, the chairman I will speak for himself, and the report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission you have received. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Constitutional and Legal Commission supported the principles most of the votes, which means that as a collective body in line with the majority-based Rules of Procedure, it is behind the bill. But since I'm speaking in personal capacity and I just want to say a few things. I would not prolong, but first I do not dispute, of course, that the conclusions are and let me say the impressions that the Human Rights Commission has seen during the tour of the KPZ call for all institutions and this home to take appropriate measures to protect, as counterpart Novaković said, human rights, if I am well paraphrasing it which is not disputed. On the other hand, the practical solution offered through this law is here we are witnessing in this house rarely that the issue of jurisdiction is sometimes a first-rate issue. They come into conflict with the understanding of jurisdiction in this area, and the Constitutional Commission has also had the opportunity to hear that information. There are objections from the entity level, therefore, that this proposal does not satisfy that requirement. So the power of the Minister of Resort at the state level to deploy prisoners, even in cases like this outside, to tell the entity. Of course, I always have understanding for those who would transfer competences to the state and in this respect I would not even principledly object. The key thing that leads me not to accept this solution, not to argue that it is really necessary and necessary and as soon as possible to improve the conditions in the KPZ is that the practical application of the law in the way it is suggested, although we have done a lot of things solely rationally defacto, would lead to one-national prisons. This is really not a solution and is not an excuse for the actual right of action that should be read – the convict, no matter where he supported the punishment, must be guaranteed human rights in accordance with, here I am talking to European standards and whether it is an excessiveity, so there must be a solution to it in another way, especially if for other reasons uncertainty is threatened. There are instruments in the Code of Criminal Penalty which, of course, involve prisoners, or those who are in detention, so to speak, bring in the desired, or mandatory manner of conduct that must not endanger other prisoners in support of the sentence. Let me put this short, and to conclude, I personally do not support this bill. I think that other means must and can be found, other solutions, and, in the long term, I am looking at these issues and in this area, we are considering these issues in due course, i.e. to transfer jurisdiction to the state level. Thank you very much. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22657	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, not later. Who's got the replica? Momo Novaković replica. I'm sorry, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22658	First, I want to replicate the finding that, with the application of this law, there would be a single-national creation, as my colleague, Ćeman, said in prison. In fact, if the law is read, then you can tell it's not. It means that this law makes no more or less impossible than existing legislative practice. So there's no talking about what Mr. Ćeman was talking about. And on the other hand, I had at the end of my term to advocate the transfer of jurisdiction, and Ćeman against it, so it's a very important step forward in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22659	I thank my colleague Novaković. A colleague, Gligorić, and Belkić. Replica, Momčilo Novaković. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22660	The replica is addressed on the basis of a discussion that this is not about some kind of transfer of jurisdiction of a type of centralisation, or the deployment of national prisoners to certain national prisons, for God's sake. This is about improving the existing state-level law, as it was not respected by amendments and additions to the entity law, especially the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. She didn't comply with her law, the same law as the state-level law. That's what this is about. If that law were in line, it wouldn't be necessary to amend and supplement it. You understand. But on the other hand, we have experienced that you are opposed to centralization on whose line you are constant. I mean, it's amazing whether in this situation that happened in Zenica, you're putting yourself in those who support human rights violations, or the suffering of those people who are detained there, and they're in a station where they don't satisfy the fundamental human rights of prisoners in one prison. And that's been going on for seven months, Mr. Ćeman. You should ask yourself, why is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22661	Thank you. A fellow Gligorić. Replica. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22662	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Belkić is rebelling about something. Yeah, well, I'm sorry. These amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and other measures proposed by Mr. Novaković certainly solves one problem at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have until the issue of reform of the legal system is resolved. And the Commission for Human Rights, and I was also in one sub-committee, we found, that in all the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a convict who also has his rights is being violated and cannot normally be provided in prison with all the rights they have on the space so many squares and everything that goes on about it, so that in this way it is possible, because of the rationality of overnumerity as stated by Ospodin Novaković, and also for security reasons, this could be being relocated. 52 If we only talk about war crimes, then we don't have a state-level prison that needs to be built and it'll start to build in maybe 2-3 years. But what to do with these, say, people like that in Zenica, so come on, the Croats have been moved so that the other Srbin are practically not in a position to move them. Although I think prison anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a prison, it's not a hotel or you need to get into those prisons so you can see what kind of misery it is. But in this case we specifically came to another position that, should be gone at least, many will, because we are at entity level, ministers have made different statements. The Minister of State, too. There's been a public defamation between them. Disrespect. We're like the House of Representatives, our commission has taken some conclusions. No Niko is that either, and no one respects it anymore, and I think this way we could resolve that issue through this legal norm. As far as prisoners in Zenica are concerned, knowing that they are threatened means, life in danger, right to life, and that's almost clear for everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, now is what Mr. Ćeman said, I respect what he was saying. However, it says it can be solved in another way, not this norm. He can't do it any other way. You know what these people are doing now. They don't have the right to walk, it's been denied. They're being put in some kind of stationery. And put in with the tuberculosis and hepatitis "C" that they have. So people will consciously get sick and get into a worse situation. And he's entitled to health care. He's entitled to life and health care. It breaks everything in Zenica. Will we carry on these people's consciences? If they are wrong and if society has set a measure for them, then we must be human to those who are in prison because they would be the same as criminals. So I ask you to support this and we will solve this problem that we have and as an acute, current problem that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this way we will be able to solve other issues, and not when it needs the Federation and the Republika Srpska, then three Bošnjak, then three Srbin, and before that three Srbin were beaten, so it was exchanged because it was necessary, or it was of interest that three Bošnjak cross. We do not need to act like this, but rather the norm to resolve the issue without cheering for either side in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22663	Thank you. My colleague Belkić waited a long time for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22664	Thank you very much. So first of all, I hope that my discussion will not be interpreted as supporting human rights violations. But still, from the discussion that we are having so far, we are having a debate about Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, not prisoners. As much as we'd like to explain things. In my view, the issues of equalising the standards of educational measures are important here, etc. equating balance, balancing conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina related to this area, etc. And I'm not convinced that this is how I say partial interventions we can solve this problem. In my opinion, this problem can only be solved by a total reform of the prison system, a prison system where we will provide appropriate standards, appropriate educational measures and equality of people and in these conditions, and this, these interventions that are offered here today, of course I understand and in some ways support the reasons of the proponents that make some arguments very clear. If there's a lot of room here, and there's room here why not do it, etc. However, I say the problem can generally not be solved in this way, at least 53 of my opinion without a complete reform of that entire prison system. And unfortunately, we won't be able to support these solutions, but we will advocate a total reform in the prison system. When it comes to what Mrs Perkanovic was talking about, the Federation is obliged to adapt the law to the state law, so it cannot be the subject of any discussion or dispute. So we have to find the instruments, not go in a line of less resistance, so they won't respect the state law, so let's fix it now. They'll match it. So we have to provide authority. This is what we tried to talk here about three to four years ago about the system of state administration, vertical horizontal connection, competences, etc., but unfortunately this topic was not current at the time. So I absolutely support that the Federation is obliged to apply the law, and the persons who operate the KPD wherever these things are happening, which Mr Gligorić is talking about, should be replaced immediately. Guiltyly answer if necessary, if that's exactly what Mr. Gligorić is talking about. So we need to talk openly about things, not running away from the problem, namely the name and last name of the person who violates human rights, looking for solutions in some partial amendments and additions to the law. We need to ensure that this whole prison reform is implemented and that we standardize these things, we balance the conditions of all people. But we cannot escape the story of Srbin, Hrvat and Bosšnjak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22665	Replica co-worker Perkanović. I only ask if we can get out of the replica, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22666	I just want to explain some things. We have discussed some of the things that have spontaneously arisen here, because it is the reports of the Human Rights Commission that have been visiting these prisons where employees of the prison administration have been one of the reasons for the existing incidents that are overbooking, i.e. the overcrowding of prisoners, which suggests that there is a problem that because of the excessiveness in a particular prison, there are incidents and the inability to control the existing situation, while in other prisons there is the possibility that these people can be moved and that there is no incident situation. And this amendment and the addition of the law actually contributes to improving the quality of the existing roof law that would allow for harmonisation and better functionality in coordinating such phenomena. I mean, not related to the incident this or that, but for now and in the future until standards are improved, or it doesn't expand the capacity where they started. From the point of view, we wouldn't, we wouldn't go into the controversy of what was going on and why it was happening. I fully agree with you that the responsibility of the people working on these jobs is because they are the experts and must predict what may happen after some, following some events. We were in jail. By carrying out the chronology of events, it could be assumed that it would escalate in that direction. It could have even tragically ended. No measures have been taken. They weren't even informed or complained or asked for help, and I asked the Commission to raise this professionalism to a high level, and you can't leave it differently if you don't call those responsible for some questions. However, since people are on several occasions, the visit to prison was on three occasions. Once, we pointed out the problem of overcrowding of prisoners and showed a lack of roof law where nothing could be done from the state level in the event of any aid in such situations, there was an initiative to fix this roof law in order to simply function 54, nothing else. And it goes in the direction of quality with, for all of these, and not just for individuals and that it concerns one prison, but at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think there's really any reason for obstruction, or I don't know the animosity either.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22667	Thank you. I'm asking you just a little bit. There's a lot of registered debaters. Here's Momo Novaković's replica, then a colleague of Džaferović. So the replica. I'm asking you, so there's a lot of debates. I'm afraid the story is going towards the result that I could now say it will be, but we'd better try to get a little closer to the attitudes, because it's not about what's the point of changing the law. It's about impressions. I agree, but let's try. Here's the last law passed. Let’s see if we can find a minimum to come up with harmonised attitudes, and we won’t come if we replicate this way and express completely different views. Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22668	I agree with Mr. Belkić that, I think Mr. Ćeman was saying something in that style that this is not the way, I would say is not the only way to solve these problems. But besides, if there's no other way, or if no one pulls anything else, then this is the way. So this is the way, too. I can't understand what can be controversial here. I'd like colleagues who won't vote for this law to just say what's controversial about this being one of the ways to solve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22669	Step away from the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22670	But the Minister of Justice doesn't do it alone. He's working with a man who's head of that office and doesn't prejudge any nationality anywhere. I'm not here, I'm not talking about the Minister of Justice of the Federation beating up prisoners of Croatian nationality in another prison, and Srbin left. I'm not on that side to go, Mr. Belkić, nor is that my intention, but I do intend to say that when no one pulls any better and none of what Mr. Belkić was talking about, then this is the way. After all, those who take part in the Federation government have the opportunity to take shifts if they want to. But that's not the problem. That's not the point. I would therefore ask really colleagues to tell me what the reason is other than this transfer of jurisdiction that is not for them, said Mr. Ćeman key, which is why you do not support the variant that the minister of justice can do. Will he and how and when he uses it depend not only on him, but on those people who are at the head of these institutions. I mean, if there's anything to make these people who operate these institutions run more concerns, it means respect for human rights and European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22671	Thank you. He's a colleague of Džaferović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22672	Dear colleagues and colleagues, despite the fact that this law has only two members, I think it's a very serious law, because it treats a very serious area and implies very serious problems, and I don't think it's possible to approach one of these issues in this way. I understand, and ultimately the promoter doesn't hide the reasons, he put them correctly in an explanation that he was motivated by when he proposed this law. He also cited the KPD, which is what the Institute is called in Zenica, and that would be practical in the end, that I now translate into everyday language, that people understand, so that those who are following this problem allow, say, the Minister of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to transfer these people from the institution to one of the institutions in Republika Srpska, with the attached opinion of the head of the KPZ Zenica. That would practically mean it. You know that this case existed in practice and, of course, that request was not granted. So this doesn't just imply a problem of efficiency in the realization of treatment, or the security reasons that this article is talking about, this implies this and this to each other a much more important and much more important question and that we naked up to the end and that we speak with an understandable language. I agree with Mr. Novaković, which is why I cannot, of course, support such intervention in the existing pension system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, starting with the reason, i.e. the fact that Mr. Novaković, even in this way, has shown the need to intervene in the pension system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think we should, therefore, vote against this law, and what I propose to Parliament to vote against this law, should address this very important and very serious issue. By law, this law leaves the entity's jurisdiction in the area of enforcement of criminal offences imposed on entity laws, criminal laws, therefore leaving this key, fundamental jurisdiction and here we can talk about the transfer of jurisdiction, and enables the Minister of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to intervene in certain cases in the manner he has the right to intervene when it comes to state criminal law, when it comes to international courts and sanctions imposed by international courts. A correct, fair and consistent transfer of competence would then also be given to one uniform, or universal solution and the right to intervention by the Minister of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll remind you, we have what we have today and we're welcome to this kind of story, here you can best see how the old can get to the absurde. So, earlier on, I've worked in that system and let's do it today to have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we've had a KPZ semi-open type, a closed type, and I don't know if there was an open type. It's been known that Zenica and Foča were seduced by a closed guy, that The Tower was a semi-open type. And we were classifying, and it was known, every court that referred to the maintenance of the fine, no matter where the punishment was imposed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, took care of how old the person who was going to the execution was, to the maintenance of the sentence, which kind of crime was committed by that person and these were the criteria on which the person was referred to the KPU, so it was known that the person who was younger than 26 years old, regardless of what crime he committed, and no matter what part of Bosnia and Herzegovina was going to receive the sentence in the KPZ in Foch. A person over the age of 26 has committed a serious crime at the KPZ in Zenica. The person who committed the crime in the area of traffic went to support the sentence at the KPPP institution of a semi-open type. Let's do this sort of classification today in Bosnia and Herzegovina and let's talk about reforming the prison system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would be one correct story. 56 Furthermore, you here in this House, I apologize to the chairman, this is a very important topic, we have passed criminal law and entities have passed criminal laws. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina today have no security measures at all, or measures on the safety of mandatory psychiatric treatment and the preservation of the perpetrators. A person who is mentally disturbed, who is unaccounted for when he commits a murder, is being taken into account by a social work centre that is completely unprepared for that type of activity. And today we have a situation where such faces walk free. So let's do it in Bosnia and Herzegovina, change the criminal law, introduce a security measure, or measure the security of this guy and let's do it, we had it on Sokoc before. So an institution, therefore a closed-down type of person who committed serious crimes, made them in a state of incompetence. It is a reform that should be initiated by this parliament, and not in this way in a partial way, and I would say inconsistencies, do not be angry with counterpart Novaković, but also unprincipled when it comes to offering jurisdiction. The core jurisdiction of the entity is maintained, and to God, it gives jurisdiction to the minister of justice, and then it leads to an opportunity to intervene in that case from Zenica in the way we had the opportunity to listen to it in the media. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22673	I thank my colleague Džaferović. A colleague, Križanović, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22674	I thank Mr. Chairman, since we have spent a lot of time discussing this item of the agenda, I would like to say that I am very much in agreement with my colleague Džaferović's presentation and I will not repeat what I was about to say. But you see, the truth is that this deserves one, one far more complex and more serious approach to this problem at all, to support the punishment of a secure person. There are problems, therefore, in these institutions beginning with material as well as others to say the problems of maintaining the sentence. I would like to remind you that in this term, the Commission for Human Rights and Refugees has visited some of these institutions where penalties are maintained. I would also like to point out that the Commission for Gender Equality has also visited the penal institutions in which the sentences are sustained by women. I just want to point out one thing, this House of Representatives except for what the law says has one control function. I would like to remind you that this House has made several very significant conclusions regarding these two reports, so the Commission for Human Rights and the Commission for Gender Equality. I would suggest that this story be opened, but I would also suggest that the Human Rights Commission conduct one analysis of these conclusions and see how much they have actually committed or how much they have touched certain institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to improve the conditions of penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22675	I thank Mr. Križanović. The word has the chairman of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22676	Gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have a very different view of the intention of amending this law in relation to all the discussions I have heard here today. 57 As MPs of the state parliament, we must primarily appreciate in which Bosnia and Herzegovina's ambience is, what is possible and what is not and at what speed processes may be evaluating within Bosnia and Herzegovina. One is beautiful pictures that we all wear 15 years ago, and the other are images and problems we face today. I congratulate my colleague Novaković. This amendment to the law has the need to allow the ground to settle in this unfortunate country. Well, it looks like we've given the prisoners a national hand. So now the problem is if somewhere there's an assessment of the state ministry to move "x" "y" I don't care what nationality, so it doesn't cause an incident of broader proportions and we don't give it the right, so it can use it, and it doesn't have to. While the events are being transferred to jurisdiction, whether or not it will happen, when the reform of the prison site, but here we are trying, if there is a neural point, it doesn't matter if it's in Banja Luka, whether it's in Mostar, whether it's in Zenica. Why don't we let that happen? I'm very interested in why, now, let's say, in Banja Luka, someone complains and assumes, let's say, a man doesn't know what nationality is, that he can produce it, trigger some specific political feelings. Isn't it better if the Minister of State doesn't know what it's called, the Bošnjak, the Srbin or the Hrvat says okay, we'll put that prisoner where he has the capacity and where he won't produce it, until there's a reform of the prison system. This is just an attempt to put an end to fires so that what is not supposed to take a prominent political dimension can be avoided. So I'm asking you, this is neither a reform of the prison system nor a criminal, but it's called changes and additions, taught by recent examples. I have to say that I had dozens of calls, and I couldn't give a single answer, as chairman of the state parliament. So here the question is now why, with full respect for people's desire to go into reform, at what speed they will go, whether conditions will be obtained or not. Why doesn't this work out? I don't see a national omen here, and even if this change of law was more useful than that, it's more useful for the environment it's in, for the stage it's in than it's gone. So I'm just talking about trying to brighten up the problem on the other hand, respecting what this is about, the wishes that my colleagues were talking about. And I will support this precisely for those reasons, they will not want the minister to ever come into a position to exploit a member of this law. And you know it happened, the media said the minister said he could, so it's not that, it's in collegiate with the laws, so it can't, so then you have a heated national story unnecessary, and we're here to correct the law, if we will. That's the way it is. And I don't really invite anyone to the line. I think how it goes or how the debate goes that what might be the worst that this will essentially get that story that this law shouldn't end up getting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22677	I thank Mr. President Nikola Špirić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić, and let Mr. Sipović Mirsad be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22678	I'll have honest colleagues and respected presidency, I'll say a few words. Today is the hardest time for those who discuss here than for those who are in prison. And I think that what we saw and who visited the prison, there are conditions outside of every category for normal service of a prison sentence, not because the cops are bad, not because they don't know people there, but because we do have few legal units in which we can create conditions for the normal lives of these people. 58 We are taught here by one request that came from the prison in Zenica, we went to prison and we wrote a report that human rights were actually violated there. However, you have a situation where human rights are not only violated, but also women, children, juvenile delinquency, conditions, and so on. And I think that today's debate that we have on the bill is excellently giving away one clagon that we, as Parliament, can ask and demand to be taken away from the Ministry of Justice, for justice, to raise the issue of just achieving the conditions for normal service of a prison sentence. What's the problem here? We need to be open. At the request of the strike prisoners to remove Bosnia and Herzegovina's justice minister, he made a decision in which he gave the warrant, I would tell the directors of the moving office. People, he's not in charge, unfortunately, and there's been a noise between ministers, I'd say entity ministers and the Minister of State. And that's the whole case where we found ourselves in a chain of circuits that we've fallen off, a malt not a country where we don't know who's drinking or who's paying. And the problem is so much, as Mr. Džaferović said, as we all say here, is good intentions, but behind all that, I'm afraid we'll go with a partial part to that that every nation has its own prison. It's stupid, and if we look at it that way, I'm against it, but if it's seen from the point of view that, after all the interventions, the minister's federal exception, I'd tell the citizens, or the citizens of Croatian nationality from the prison in Zenica, are being transferred to Mostar. That then raises the question why it cannot be excluded and in this case people, let me say Serbian nationality. Here's the problem of one category, the category in which we got after the war, that people who are convicted of war crimes and who, no matter where they are, they go from the point of view to doing all the same punishment, but in prison other people don't see it that way. In Zenica, you have citizens of the Serbian Nationality and Croatian Nationalities who serve fines for robbery, for the rest, and they are not threatened. But this is one difficult case, and it is worth a debate in this House, but perhaps one, let's say one broad debate that would lead to change. I'm entitled to tell you as a man I'd be very happy to help them feel safe, if I had the belief that prison in let's say in Banja Luka, if they go to Banja Luka, they'd have a special ward for prisoners of war crimes. That would be perfectly acceptable to me. As in Mostar, too, also to know that, so there is no interference within again, I would say the level of those responsibilities. That's why, I don't know, we're going to see through this debate, and I personally think that in principle I'm afraid to create a national prison I'm against, but we're going to see how further discussion goes, the discussion will find an answer for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22679	Thank you. He had a colleague, Sipović. There's only a few replicas. He has a colleague, Novaković, Mara Perkanović. I'm just asking that. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22680	I wanted to, you know, put one thesis here the whole time that's not good. Watch out, creating one-national prisons. Please, I would if I had the data now as many Srbin in prison as there are in Zenica, I believe there are very few, except for those who are for war crimes. So are these the prisons we're talking about now? Well, I'm not just saying because now they're 59, which is the situation in prison, and that's why I didn't mention that aspect, and I'm asking my colleagues not to mention it either because it's not an argument. So that's not an argument to reject this law. The argument may be what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, but as long as he and we come to such a reform, it is difficult for those to benefit from this law. It's hard for them. Mr. Džaferović, of course we will, each one will vote according to its definition and thinking, but I have not gained conviction, I repeat once again that I have not heard one serious reason that one problem can not be partially solved in this case, except for this general who will last who knows how long. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22681	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you, so we have two more people in charge of the hearing. I suggest we wrap up the discussion before the break in 2 College has a duty so from 2 to 3 we'll take a break for lunch, but it would be good if we could finish the debate until it's just a vote. We have a colleague, Sipović, and a colleague, Ćeman, for the replica, as far as I know and has a Dr. Avdić. So there's more debaters. It's not going to be possible, dr. Huskić. And I beg you, then, let's not be too long, let's say what we can do. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22682	Well, here I am going to try to make my point as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is why I supported the principles of this proposed law. Because I found it in Article 2(2). Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution, as Bosnia and Herzegovina is globally responsible for protecting human rights. I think the point is, I'd agree with most of the discussion, but what Mr. Džaferović said to the vice president of this house, I think the point is on that principle. Why? To avoid that rhetoric from Mr. Novaković to tell Ćeman, he says so why do you advocate the independence of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Justice. I'm in the middle of something, too. Strengthening institutions. I'll tell you, this will come when the time comes to get rid of it, because I'll remind you that Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this home has brought agreements, made with neighbouring countries about moving citizens to another. Now a little uninsistant comes into the situation that we can't go to another part of the state and we don't trust the Bosnia and Herzegovina Justice Ministry. Now, we have, perhaps, the promoter has entered this combination very unskilledly, so when he has proposed and fully understood the concern of the other debaters that if he were to adopt himself now without such a partial solution without a pentologically wider procedure and the establishment of the judiciary, then let's ask the question then that the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina has jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to decide as a third degree court and on the Supreme Court of Justice decisions of the Federation and of Republika Srpska, and we will settle some other matters. And let me just say, I know this problem will be solved in the complex. I am principled to strengthen the institutions of the state and to include Bosnia and Herzegovina and this ministry in this resolution. However, because of the current situation, because of objectively, I will tell you another problem, it would now appear, no matter who is the minister of justice, everyone would then from other entities and others call for human rights violations and then there would be tumbling and moving. I am more in favour of reforming and harmonising the system of penologically and that this question which 60 is complex is opened and that one real is being brought into this field, and that is our obligation for this Parliament to have a comprehensive broad debate. That's why I want to explain that there is no question that I am inconsistencies, yes, you will, I know that this House will declare itself, must go in a consistent manner, because it is absurd that it has a contract with Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia on the transfer of its citizens to support their country of origin, without being able to go into the premises, it is illogical. And there's another danger, Chairman, so I agree in the part of your discussion, but there's one danger that might happen then, if we didn't have a parallel system of external vessels to raise a state court as an appeal court, then we might, then it might happen to you, and here I am pragmatic, so we choose a little necessarily evil this, so I support Ćeman not to get into a situation at an early stage that we're really starting to reflect on national and ethnic prisons which would really create a problem for us. But we're not going through this. We would have had this situation, entity laws and entity courts condemning someone and condemning him to a greater amount of punishment. Please, in the penological aspect, which Mr. Džaferović has strongly opened a wide range of resolutions, not a partial one, it would happen that someone commits a crime in the Federation's space, he is more severely punished, and then in the penological principle of moving, or pressure on the minister would come into a situation where there is no purpose of punishment, because the punishment could be reduced to half, or even 1/3 in support. So for the solution offered by the gentleman and opened a complex issue in the context of the protection of human rights and equality, as Mr Džaferović suggested, and for the principles alone, and we will then adopt this, we will give power to the Ministry of Justice. That is what we will have to do, that will ask us Europeans, ask for European conventions, and all of that and ask Europe for it, that, however, the Minister of State will have to intervene in certain things, but I am a supporter that this, this problem, is solved with a wide stick, not partially in order to avoid what Mr. Ćeman said. And he agreed with principles, I mean the shared opinion was on principles. I agreed with the principles, but at this stage, we choose less evil. But it is very important that you said that one opened up and that Mr. Novaković opened a very important problem and that it should finally be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22683	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Sipović has spent, unfortunately, the time we had until the break. So break to 3 o'clock. I ask you at 3:00 to be here for the obligation that the College has, the inevitable obligations, we will continue the discussion. I'd like to ask you if you have time together on a break to sit down and get your attitudes closer, to exchange experiences whether or not it is, so that we can vote on this. Thank you. We have a quorum. [[PAUZA]] So, word came from colleague Mirsad Ćeman, so Mr. Huskić, so Dr. Avdić. Here you go. Huskić gave up. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22684	Thank you. I'm just going to try not to know if colleague Perkanović is here, to say, there was a question, namely an objection in some way, how that, by standing up for the continued transfer of jurisdiction from entity to state, I'm now against and do this attitude towards this law in an indirect way, support what is being given to prisoners who support punishment in the female institution, whether I support it. I želm to make it clear, and I think it could have been concluded from my previous presentation, of course that I am in favour of reform in this area, and if it is possible to settle this issue at the state level, but I have noticed and I have written acts that point from the entity level to the state of jurisdiction and simply at this point I cannot behave differently, and to colleagues from Republika Srpska is this approach and as well known. Secondly, of course, with this attitude, I do not support that anything other than the law happens to prisoners, not just the KPZ in Zenica, but anyone. So I really felt the need to do with these two attitudes, not to explain it, because I think my exposure made it clear what I meant and the first time I exposed it, but simply to remove any doubts. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22685	Thank you. The word was answered by Dr. Avdić. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 13, versus 11, abstention 2. So we have the majority, we don't have the entity majority, we don't have the Federation, we don't have Martin to match. We remain to agree, therefore, in a business prescribed manner. I thank you for moving to 10 points A. 10. Proposal for a framework law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report (proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković) Dama and gentlemen, you know that the bill has been in the process for a long time. Today for the third time we have a negative report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So the Commission did not accept the principles of the bill, either this time 3 votes in favour and 4 votes against. We know the procedure, so we're discussing it, we're voting on the Commission's report. So if the report is adopted, the law has fallen, unless the Commission is re-advised. So I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. 62 Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 17, versus 11, abstention nobody. So it doesn't have an entity majority. It remains for re-enactment at the next session of the College as well as the previous point. Thank you. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget (proposer: MP Dušanka Majkić) kolegica Majkić submitted this proposal on January 26th to the parliamentary procedure. At the 73rd session, a request for a procedure under Article 104 was adopted. Rules of Procedure. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on February 2nd. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report on 23 February. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. So we also have a negative report here that we're discussing and deciding. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? My Lady's Majkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22686	Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this bill. The fastest way to raise the competitiveness of one country and its exports is to direct foreign investments through which, apart from capital in the country, there are patents of knowledge, technology, business organisations and others. A large number of new companies, a larger foreign investment cannot arise as a result of the country's politicians dragging investors or organising investors' conferences, which, by the way, will remain remembered only for some negative audit reports, rather than only if the conditions for business are improved and the improvement concerns different conditions of entry and exit from business, tax levels, effective dispute resolution, simple regulation. In successful transition countries and their economies, direct foreign investments account for 80% of the country's exports. So foreign investments generate a growing number of jobs, improve competitiveness, transfer technologies and technical knowledge, and thus contribute to the development and stability of a country. In most Balkan countries, their governments are making generous investment support plans to attract foreign investment. According to a report by the UN Conference on Trade and Development, the flow of foreign direct investment towards the Balkan countries reached a record of $35 billion in 2004. Of this sum, 5, 1 billion went to Rumunija. The country gained more than twice as much compared to the previous period, where it is in this context BiH. The country's foreign trade and economic relations ministry data speak as follows. The registered foreign direct investment in BiH, according to sectors, is falling: 70% in production, 23% in banking, 28% in traffic, in tourism almost five times. 63 The Law on the Policy of Foreign Direct Investments, according to the BiH Official Messenger 17/98 and 13/03, reads in Article 20. The rights and privileges conferred on foreign investors and the obligations arising from this law cannot be abolished or annulled by the degree of subsequently adopted laws and sublegal acts in force. If such subsequently passed laws and sublegal acts are more favourable to foreign investors, they shall have the right to choose a regime that will be relevant to their investments. The Transport Tax Act, Official Messenger No. 62/04, which was valid until the moment of the introduction of the VAT, reads in Article 13. Taxes on the market of the product shall not be paid on products imported and for which exemption from customs duty is provided for under the provisions of the customs rules. Therefore, neither customs duties nor taxes were charged on products imported on the basis of foreign direct investments. The Value Added Tax Act, Official Messenger No 9/05, in Article 26. is directly contrary to Article 20. The law on foreign direct investment policy in BiH. This legal discrepancies may have disastrous consequences for BiH, its economic development, further lagging out on foreign direct investment, and a number of court disputes with foreign investors, which will seek compensation for damages. At a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mr Hurtić made incorrect claims that they were directly foreign investments, that by then they had been paid sales tax, which, just as I read from the official messenger, was not correct. The position of the Management Board for...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22687	I am asking you to allow your colleague to speak, and I am warning my colleague that we are discussing a report from the Finance and Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22688	I am referring to this, the position of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority, in order to free the VAT on the basis of a direct foreign investment contract, which has allowed them to benefit from foreign investors. In particular, the last sentence of the report of the Management Board for indirect taxation, in which it is expressed, imagine, please, the fear that the adoption of this bill could affect the structure of future foreign investment, by forcing investment through imports of equipment, rather than other forms of foreign investment, such as the purchase or recapitalisation of existing enterprises, tragically and truthfully. This is the position of the central institution, which has also taken over Parliament's duties and the responsibility of the competent ministry, which should deal with a strategy to increase foreign direct investment. There are few countries where MPs, but parliament itself, play such a humiliating role. There are few institutions where no serious, reasoned proposal is taken into account. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue to be speechless and to endure a humiliating relationship between the Directorate for indirect taxation. I call on you to vote against the Commission's report on finance and budget, regardless of the position, and to support the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22689	I thank my colleague, Majkić. We'll see how much this call will be accepted by your colleagues. I'm opening a debate. Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22690	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would not repeat part of what my colleague Makić had already said. So we, as the committee responsible, were empowered to consider this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We asked for an opinion from the Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. We got the board's opinion. Mr Hurtić delivered the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the amendment and addition of this law, which we have written here. It means that the opinion of the Management Board is supported by a representative of the Council of Ministers, for the reasons and reasons set out. So the essence of this negative opinion, which is most of the Commission's votes present, is that the purposes and objectives that lie, in fact, lie in the background of the value added tax that we have introduced and customs are completely different. We went to Customs to protect domestic production and was created with the aim of imposing costs on a business entity, which carries out business activities with imported goods. We freed a foreign investor of that, while VAT imposed this tax on expendable consumption. All taxpayers of additional value shall have the right to return that tax. Therefore, we believe that we have already provided a foreign investor when we freed him from customs, we have called on ourselves, in fact we have called on European standards that can be released from customs, but is not exempt from the tax on additional value. We have stood on the stand to make it impossible for these people to have the right to return to additional value and, in this light, the Commission report is negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22691	Thank you. We had the report and read it. Here, Dušanka Majkić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22692	... exclusively on the basis of the incorrect interpretation of an exclusive person to interpret the VAT Act, this is Mr Hurtić. I remind you he has deceived the Commission. I brought an example, a copy of the Official Messenger that he did not tell the truth at the Commission's session. That's one thing. And, secondly, you can't by one law in which it's explicit that rights and privileges are given to foreign investors and obligations arising from the law cannot be challenged by...law, it says in the Law on Foreign Direct Investments.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22693	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Comrade Sipović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22694	Here, I'll be a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I'll bring it up. I'll vote for the attitude my club has, but I'm a man when I come as a legalist. What my colleague said, 65 apriors, as she presented my position was also on the Commission. I think that the Commission has been very technicalally considering the provision of Article 20. Foreign investment policy law. Please, persuasion that the state has the right to pass any law and the sublegal act is excessive, because it says there, if it brings a fiscus, it will compromise this one. But I respect most of it, and I'm outvoted in the Commission. Right? But as a legalist, I want to say that we are really going to have problems and disputes and that we are going to have very negative repercussion in this respect, because it is no longer a matter of politics, political, but rather a matter of resonating consistent legal reasoning. I, as a man, have to say it. I think we'll get a chance to make these arguments, I don't want to repeat them, because they're very well elaborated. I think we remember that the international community's high representative for BiH has just imposed the law that has been confirmed in both homes of this parliament and is being targeted for what it is. If we want to go to short paths, maybe my thinking is that, if the organs are correctly interpreted, then they will apply the provision of Article 20. The law on foreign investment policy, and I have seen in my practice, we will have problems, we will have unnecessary disputes in the state court and administrative disputes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22695	I thank my colleague Sipović. You have discussed as supporting Dušanka, but you will vote negatively as the party has said and that is good and it is democratic. I don't mind that either. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now for the commission's report. For 22, versus 8, no one abstentions. 14 from the Federation, 8 from RS. So the report was adopted. The law is down. If the report had been rejected, he would have gone further into procedure. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. I'm sorry, but that's right. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. The BiH Financial Business Audit Office's report on the audit carried out for 2004 from a. to j. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the last ten of the Office's audit reports on the audit of these institutions for 2004. This time I draw your attention to the general report of the committee, which proposes conclusions and recommendations, which include global reports, therefore, in which they are proposed. So, by voting on the revision of these institutions and the reports of the committee responsible with conclusions and recommendations for each of these institutions, we should, individually, declare this general report by the Finance and Budget Commission, with the conclusions and recommendations contained in that report at seven points. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Can we then vote in the package on all reports and on the Commission's conclusions in general? 66 you agree. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 30, against no one, two abstentions. So, I agree that we adopted the report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office and that: a. BiH Veterinary Office, B.C. Constitutional Court of BiH Commission for opening and accepting offers for the users of the Budget Institutions of BiH d. The Programme for Revitalisation of BiH Institutions, e.g. BiH Archives, F. Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees Mr. Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, h. Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH, i.e. the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2004, with the General Recommendations of the Competent Commission, and thus ended the 12th Point of the Agenda. Ad.13. A review of the report on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces in peace support operations in 2005, with the BiH presidency's conclusion and the BiH presidency's decision to refer BiH police forces to the UN peace operation in Sudan, you received a report and a decision from the BiH presidency on these points. These materials were discussed by our Joint Defence and Security Committee. You have seen the Commission's proposals. The Commission proposes to Dom: 1. Yes in accordance with Article 17. Law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, police officers, civil servants and other employees in pdoric peace operations, makes a decision on justification, level of participation in existing peace support operations in 2006 of members of the BiH Armed Forces, and so on: - in peace support operations East Freedom in Iraq, two contingents of 36 members, and - in an observation mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea 20 members and the Democratic Republic of Congo 5 members. To make a decision to confirm the BiH presidency's decision on the participation of police officers in UN peacekeeping operations in Sudan. Finally, the Joint Commission proposes that the House adopt conclusions requiring all institutions, whose obligations are clearly regulated by the law, to respect clearly established deadlines regarding the delivery of reports and plans in the parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate on these documents. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22696	I just have one question. When did this mission of ours go to the police station in Sudan? Can I have that answer? 67
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22697	We don't have a minister of police, we have a minister of security, but he's not here to give us that answer, I'm sorry. Police mission. Here, there's a defence minister who can answer. I ask Minister Radovanović to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, regarding your proposal for a conclusion on this point, you, if I am not mistaken, have proposed to approve participation in an observation mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea at 20 participants level. However, our proposal is and thus stands in document 9 members and I would ask for intervention in that direction. And secondly, when it comes to the participation of police officers in the UN mission in Sudan, they are not yet sent there and this is the stage provided for in Article 4. The law on participation, where the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is expected to give a positive opinion on the presidency's decision on future participation. So only after a positive decision by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can they be sent to the mission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22699	I thank the minister. Is colleague Križanović satisfied with the answer? Who's next to the word? Dr Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22700	I am taking the opportunity to thank the Minister of Defense, who respects this House. So, I'm not cynical, I'm not provoking, I really think we should thank the minister, but rather all of us who were supposed to be on this subject to talk to us, unfortunately they're not here. The only thing that made me a little vague was having some problems when we ratify this today, so it doesn't turn out to be Parliament's fault. Since our ambassador to the UN's letter of 18 October states that on 17 November 2005, people should be there to disintegrate. Well, now my question just. Is it that if they are ready, is it all done, that they may indeed be appointed? Are there gonna be any problems we're late? If there's gonna be a problem with a little one, I'm not going to make a point to whoever's in charge of this so this kind of thing doesn't happen to us anymore, because it's gonna turn out, tomorrow somebody's gonna tell us we're tight throat, and apparently we're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22701	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22702	I would like to direct my colleagues, since I am a member of this joint committee, to write practically everything in the Commission's report, means both in relation to this mission and in relation to the ambiguities, which is why there was a delay, etc. So, in the Commission's report, we have a very clear definition of who has failed at this stage, or what is necessary in the future, because this 68 reports should be considered, for example, this report should have been considered somewhere in September, October of last year and then a decision on participation in 2006. We are now working with a delay about three months on this, but the Commission, the Joint Commission, has made a report and it is in favour of this material.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22703	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you prepare to vote. We are voting on a report on the participation of the BiH Armed Forces in peace support operations in 2005, with the BiH presidency closing. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 26, v. 3, abstention 2. So, I understand that we accepted a report on the participation of the armed forces in peace support operations in 2005, with the conclusion of the Presidency. Prepare to vote. We are voting on a decision to confirm the Presidency's decision on the participation of police officers in UN peacekeeping operations in Sudan. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 29, versus 2, abstention 2. I konstatovati that we voted positively on a decision to confirm the Presidency's decision on the participation of police officers in peace support operations in Sudan. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to vote more on making a decision on justification. Therefore, making a decision on the justification and level of continuation of participation to existing peace support operations in 2006 of members of the armed forces, in the peace-support operation of Iraq's freedom of two contingents of 36 members, and in the observation mission and Ethiopia and Eritrea of 9 members and Congo, 5 members. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's all in the commission's conclusions. So, for 26, against 1, abstention 2, I realize that we've adopted this decision and we're moving on to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. A report on the work of the Joint Intelligence and Security Commission on the surveillance of the work of the BiH Security and Security Agency for the period April 2004. - December 2005 you received a report on the work of this commission. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I thank Mr. Minister for his explanations and for his presence. So, for 29, no one against, two abstentions. I agree that we have accepted a report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission on the supervision of the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH for the period April 2004. - December 2005. 69 We move to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Report on activities on the highway project on the project Koricora 5c. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry we don't have any representatives of the Council of Ministers. I can read to you now, of course, when you get the report, the content of the conclusions, etc. So you received a report on the activities of the highway project at Corridor 5c, which was delivered by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Today it's on the benches of a divided and specified map. Our transport and communications committee discussed the report at a session yesterday. You have received the opinion of the Commission. You have seen the Commission propose to the House to adopt the Ministry's report, with the conclusions contained in the opinion. Content of the conclusion: 1. The highway to Corridor 5c is of strategic interest to the entire BiH area. The BiH state must own all study, planning project documentation for the construction of Corridor 5c. The Council of Ministers undertakes to speed up the overall preparation process for the construction of Corridor 5c and, to that end, to immediately do the following: (a) To form a project implementation unit on the Corridor 5c highway, the corresponding personnel capacity, which will guarantee the acceleration of the process, (b) To speed up the development of complete documentation projects necessary for the construction of the highway from the provided funds, the values of the GSM licence, (c) To intensify the activities of identifying and providing the source of funding for the project. This includes the process of examining the interest in the award of a concession for the construction of the highway, by means of a public international competition tender for the award of concessions, according to the model of construction, management and transfer, with the possibility of adopting another model, depending on the interests of the bidder, and d) Design a road infrastructure strategy in BiH, with the connection of the road network to Corridor 5c, e) To prepare proposals for legal and sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of the Autocharge Bill on Corridor 5c, the public interest law, the law on expropriation, f) To start preparations for the expropriation of land and other preparatory activities, which will allow the construction of highways in the common scope, according to the performance pre-study results. 2. It will take at least once a month to inform the Transport and Communications Commission of any further activities on the construction of Corridor 5c. The Commission will inform the House of Representatives as appropriate. I'm opening a debate. Dr Lagumdžija, and my colleague Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22704	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and, at the beginning, I express my most energetic indignation to be present again on such an important topic of the Council of Ministers, the most creative part of the Council of Ministers and that part of the Council of Ministers that led us through this project all these days, here we can see here. That's exactly the creative part he's given us. 70 I would suggest a conclusion, I suggest Mr. Chairman, to conclude something similar to what we have agreed to conclude at some other points of the agenda, which is to oblige the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come to this House three years after he promised us that Corridor 5C would be made in three to five years, to go out with one serious exposé, not information. We don't need Minister Dokić for this either. The President of the Council of Ministers was the most fugitive more than three years ago that a miracle appeared and that in 2006 or 2007, we will have completed this project, which, here we have found is of strategic importance and I support all this which the Commission has concluded. But with a lot of respect, that's something that's not at all controversial, but it's all that's missing here. In order to remind you, at the 15th session of this house, in 27.6 and 17.7.2003, the House found that the construction of Corridor 5c is of strategic importance for BiH and the same as what we are today. And it requires the Council of Ministers to keep Parliament informed on the activities of this project on a regular basis. That was on my insistence, at that summer 2003 session when I explained to them that what they were about to do was exactly what they were about to do. That we need to do an implementation project. When I told them back then, I'm sorry that Minister Hadžiahmetović doesn't have the money approved by the World Bank to make a physical study, that all this must be done, then I explained to them that you want to make a kiosk at Marindvor, you have to have project documentation, and if you want to get from Sava to the sea to get through the road, I guess you have to have something like that. I said I'd get out of your way just make it, and I'll vote for you in 2006 and call the party where I'm also going to vote for you, who give us Corridor 5c from Sava to the sea, for these four years. Since we have then concluded that they regularly inform us, and they have not done so, we have three months after that, since we have missed regular information again on corridor 5c, to oblige the Council of Ministers to provide the House with written information on the activities so far in Corridor 5c, which will be the subject of discussion at the next House session. Since we said in the summer of 2003 that we were regularly informed, they did not in three months, then in three months we concluded that they were informing us in writing. Because, they, normally, did something like today, in one creative mood, these very people sitting here, told us that everything would go right and that we were just confusing the public. At the 22nd session of this house, the truth was held on December 17th and continued on December 12th, 2003, it seems we also realized that the devil had taken the joke away and, after we concluded that we were regularly informed, after we had concluded that we were informed in writing, they did not, then we concluded. It undertakes the Council of Ministers to, if necessary, but since we need a vague notion, which we have heard from the President of Parliament very creatively, and at least once a month, since this need should have been at least once a month, informs the Commission of all further activities on the construction of Corridor 5c. So, if necessary, once a month at least, and if the need is not more common.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22705	This is just a report from the Commission by Dr Lagumdzija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22706	Clearly chairing. I'm just saying what we concluded, believe it or not two and a half years ago, and then we said, as far as home is concerned, we need every three months, 71 to the Commission once a month, and home says every three months, and then we decided that everything was transparent. We have vijedli how transparent it is and, in the end, we have concluded that we need to prepare proposals for legal and sublegal acts in order to implement Corridor 5c. That's what we esteemed colleagues and colleagues concluded two and a half years ago, after half a year of trying to figure things out. After we were here, we were enemies, like this, like that, and everything that goes with it. Eh, now, look at this information. So they decided to meet our needs after two and a half years. What they needed once a month and once in three months. After two and a half years, they decided that on the 21st 10th of last year, so five months ago, and the Ministry believed or not on the 30th of September last year prepared what we are discussing today on September 30th. Since then, we have had several conferences, public statements and press conferences and conferences, both financial and financial, and such, where the new ministers have been, defiling new conclusions, except for the bitterness. In November, we were informed that three kilometers of this corridor would be completed, truth be told, in brackets, unless it rained. Since it was November, since it was raining, then snow came and, mostly, there's nothing from those three kilometers, and, unfortunately, snow has fallen and, most of these three kilometers, there's nothing, rain is expected, so we can't expect anything spectacular in the next few months. So you can see that in this information that we have here in front of us that she, from the occasion she drove from the merriment to the unloved six months to get to us. She had four interactions. 30.9., 21.10 and 4.01 this year, 12.01 this year and when the Council of Ministers adopted it, and in the meantime it was an international financial conference, watch the international financial conference and it was down in the O.R. when we opened this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22707	It's a big conference hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22708	Yeah, it's a big conference hall, for, unfortunately, a little miles of highway. I think that after three years we can draw the line and say, this council of ministers, this parliament, if it can satisfy its need with this information, we will not participate. This information is just one of the most naked pictures, the most creative part of the Council of Ministers, which is here today. That's why I suggest that we accept the opinion of this committee. Here, this here is like holy water, neither mass nor share all fine, but let's also conclude that the chairman of the Council of Ministers comes out with one serious exposé and tells us what's been done, why it's not done and what's planned to do in these, that's who's been going on for half a year, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22709	By when, do you have a proposal, a deadline?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22710	I have a proposal to give him until the next session of Parliament, to get a man with an exposé out, not to put his hands in our pockets here and mix with his hands what he wants, but to come out here and tell us fine, exactly what he promised three years ago, what is now done, why is it not done and what he thinks he's doing, and not give us this information and give us maps, 72 cartoons here. Please don't. I'm this from the art class. I'll take the deadline for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22711	I've accepted the deadline. This mixing isn't gonna...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22712	No problem, Mr. Chairman, let's not let him give it to us next time, but let's make him really do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22713	I agree with the deadline, and we're not going to get this mixed up, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22714	No, I agree with him not to come to the conclusion. We'll leave it to him on his own free will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22715	Thank you. Mr. Zorić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22716	I did ask for a word and I suggest we draw one conclusion, which is to postpone the debate on this, because I didn't get the material on the Latin. I haven't read this, and I think I've been denied, until Zlatko and his friends in the Constitution write that we don't have the right to neither write in the language nor in the language, and until we get the materials on the Constitution with guaranteed letters and languages, and by the way, to replicate Zlatko. It's not impossible to make a highway from Sava to the sea, someone's already made it, but I'm afraid we'll sue them for making highways, and God forbid they even build a bridge, that would be it. It's a highway from Sava to the sea.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22717	Thank you. Dr Lagumdžija replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22718	Mr. Zorić, be assured that Zlatko Lagumdžija will never bring such, even in a cynical thought even in a joke, changes to the Constitution as you have implicated here. So, and if your friends can do it, trust me if they go, they'll have me against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22719	Thank you. A kolega, Novaković, gave up. A fellow Gligorić. Here, here's a colleague of Zoriću's answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22720	Now, I've been thinking about those who are agreeing on these changes to the Constitution, for example. to those who sat in Doboi. I'm here to publicly say that there's not a single pal sitting here, and I guess Mr. Lagumdžija is your friend, if he's not with one of them. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22721	Thank you. Comrade Gligorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22722	So let me try to reconcile the wrong quote is or wrongly said. It's not "friends," it's "friends." All right, let it go. I'm going back to this, so let's do it my way right now. That's what Professor Fleischman was saying. Lagumdžija, it would be good to turn it into conclusions. I agree with what Mr. Zorić said and we could end this way, but I would ask Professor Lagumdžija to, since he spoke about the Council of Ministers, who is the creative part and who is not, I would ask you to consider my initiative and to call this advice of the Minister, not as Mr. Lagumdžija to give them a chance, to give them the opportunity to give us some presentations after three years, that is pointless, but, Mr. Lagumdžija, that we should say the outgoing council of ministers and it will be better for this country, and it will be functionally Bosnia. Don't be afraid, you Federation people, especially, must be functional, who will tear down the government, etc. Let it go will be a better functionality. Therefore, the outgoing council of ministers, and I'm so glad they're not there, are going away for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22723	I thank my colleague Gligorić. I'm a colleague of Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22724	Well, I do, however, think that at this point you have not read the Commission's final conclusion, that it is that the Commission proposes a public debate on Corridor 5c, in which we are about to ask for full documentation to be presented, and I argue, since I am a member of the Commission, that it is quite done, which, in turn, does not apportion the existing government, because this is the period that has been done in the last year and is not two and a half years. I therefore believe that this report of the Commission as such can be accepted, with a note that this point is also accepted, means that the Commission will make a public debate, where it would call on all MPs, while getting materials, rather than being read and that, on the basis of this public debate, here, I say, and the Commission, but also the Government, to definitely propose what and how to go on, not to stop, but to really take the highway if it starts, to go without any delays. I think the suggestions that were given two and a half years ago are to the soul that after two years have been adopted and that a lot of work has been done in the last year, who could see this documentation, see that it was done, just by our wishes, only with the delay of these sexes or the whole, it's now another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22725	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22726	My colleagues and colleagues, I think that the Corridor 5c project, not only the Corridor but the overall road infrastructure in BiH, is of crucial development importance for BiH and I suggest that a special session of Parliament be held, at which the Council of Ministers will present what is promised, what is done, what is going to be done and that it will go into public debate afterwards, because it is the 74th blood flow of BiH and Corridor 5c itself is not enough, it is the main artery. However, all other links to other places and centres in the region have not been worked out at all. So, I suggest that one of the following, as soon as possible, be dedicated to Corridor 5c and the road infrastructure in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22727	Thank you. A colleague Izet Hadžić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22728	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I have reported primarily to say that we have a man here from the Ministry. If there are any questions, some misunderstandings about this agenda point may be asked. The Commission had certainly twenty questions yesterday, which it received answers to this agenda point and, therefore, came to these conclusions, and I believe that, indeed, one unequivocal wish of this Parliament that, when it comes to the 5c project, we should continue to strengthen with the pressures to realize the Commission's conclusions, the body's structure on this project. It is unacceptable to say that many of the things that require the implementation of this project may be waiting for some political consensus, which we should say that this Parliament either strengthens or solves and, in essence, I would like to note that I believe that a lot has been done on this project, with, of course, the question always whether and how much more could be done and perhaps with insufficient information from Parliament on this issue. So, I call once again on my colleagues to adopt the Commission's conclusions, and if they have any suggestions, questions or dilemmas to take advantage of the opportunity at today's session that perhaps in preparation for a public debate to ask and a question or to seek some answers that would improve the resolution of this issue. I still wanted to say for this country my opinion, that, indeed, the issue of Corridor 5c should not be resolved in a partial manner, but should be resolved within the segment of the entire strategy for the development of the infrastructure of this country and that, in the end, it is one of the conclusions of the Commission, that the development strategy should be done as soon as possible, and that the construction of Corridor 5c as one of, to say, from the main backbone for road traffic, road traffic, road traffic, solves and, perhaps, credit duties for other routes, which would place this spine in an economically justified function. Of course, it becomes one dilemma and it may require Mr. Potočnik, whether Corridor 5c is defined enough with the point of Budapest – Sarajevo – Ploče, because there are now dilemmas or according to Neum pa Ploče or some other directions, which, of course, public debate should be given, and also within the frameworks to say our thoughts. I think that there should be a special contribution and demand in the framework of interstate co-operation with the Republic of Croatia to look for quality solutions and to strengthen the relations of these two countries, precisely in these communications. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22729	Thank you. We have another registered colleague, Moranjkić, and no more reported, we are bringing the debate to an end, Avdić. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22730	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief, given that I was appointed Vice-President of the Commission who led the Commission yesterday. I see and it is true, unfortunately, that the report coincided with the period until September of the month and that the vacuum appeared, so I felt it necessary to say that, however, the Commission had only received an additional report and for this period, conditionally said until yesterday, so we could, therefore, not have had that vacuum, we could bring and propose these conclusions to Parliament. All the questions in the dilemma here, we've asked, cleared up. There's a man who worked with us yesterday, so if he has to set someone up over this, there's, so I'm just saying, there's a supplemental report for that period as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22731	Thank you. Dr. Sead Avdić is still the last debater, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22732	My colleagues and colleagues, I would say neither a more serious project for this country in the next decades nor a higher degree of improvisation over the realization of this project, indeed. In view of this report that is ahead of us, there is absolutely no system at all. You have here the notion of pre-physical study. The pre-fisibilities of the study, which was completed with 30 percent, and the physibilities of the study have not yet begun without talking about idea projects, technical projects, traffic studies, etc., which means that the Ministry really did not establish an entirely sophisticated project approach. Let me be forgiven here for being overly consulted by that ministry for such a serious job. Where did we get these funds and you're highly consulting who advise us to do things like this? If they are not competent professionally and scientifically, let them leave it to some institution to do so. If the Ministry isn't competent. Which means you can't really allow this degree of improvisation around a serious project like this anymore. Secondly, we have never adopted the course of Corridor Vc and has no right of the ministry which simply did not adopt the Council of Ministers and simply define the course as if it were a done deal. And especially the exit of that corridor to the seashore and the connection to Neum, or Ploče. Which means we don't have the elemental things solved and the ministry is still running its business, and Parliament is looking at it and refusing from session to session. Which means that this is really very serious, it's not just a technical project, it's not just the highest degree of complexity of an implementation project, but it's both a dominant and a political issue. The course isn't just a technical question. Which means first, the route has to be solved and then everything just goes away and ends, normally, concessions and translation of the project etc. So there's a feeling that believe the commission did it better than our ministry. With these few conclusions, the commission has synthesized and proposed certain steps to be done. I accept that before long it is necessary to pass the Law on the construction of Corridor Vc in which the law would be adopted and the route and give frameworks to build this corridor with time dynamics. And then we trust the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Transport and Communications to do their job. This is how it's all improvisation again that's gonna come back and just pick us up. That's for sure. Which means I'm looking for it, we've been looking for it before, which means the special point of the Corridor Vc exit and everything else that's consistent with the aspect of justification and accession 76 to the Ploče, namely Neum to consider Parliament and to adopt the course of Corridor Vc in Parliament. I do not have the right to repeat once again the Ministry considers this a purely technical issue and does not have the right to co-operate with the Corridor Vc route as with the almost fact and with the finished project. So I am seriously warning that this must be returned to the system institution, or Parliament, to adopt a simple framework project on the construction of Corridor Vc, with the conclusions of this committee that I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22733	Thank you. No one answered for the hearing further. I'm closing the debate. We have a possibility like this now. So we have, therefore, to vote on the report, to vote on the commission's report, to vote on Dr. Lagums. I ask you to prepare yourselves therefore. He has your conclusion, fellow Potočnik, but he is closely related to what his colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija has suggested, and has in the commission the conclusion that we are going to a public debate. So the commission covered it on its own. You can insist. I beg you to give me a conclusion in writing. We will plead individually, therefore. So give me a conclusion. It's not a problem. We'll make a statement. I haven't forgotten him at all. So we're going to vote in a row. Please prepare for the vote on the report we received from the ministry's representative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. First with a report from the commission. Yeah. So let's just do it again. Prepare to vote. So vote now. - For 25, 3 against, 2 abstentions. So we have most of the entity majority. I understand we've accepted the report with the committee's report. We're going to the second conclusion, dr. Lagums. I want to read it. It is up to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to submit at the next session the exposures related to the construction of Corridor Vc and everything that follows the construction of Corridor, as well as the intentions of what will be done by the end of this year on Corridor Vc. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I think I've been telling the truth. Thank you. - With 33 votes for, no one against, one abstention we also adopted this conclusion. We also have the conclusion of a fellow Potočnik. Please read the conclusion. I couldn't remember my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22734	That conclusion is contained in this conclusion. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22735	I know that's why I said that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22736	Special session and time limit to when requested
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22737	But that's why I thought we'd vote on these conclusions first and put this conclusion on Dom. Well, I'm glad you've figured that out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22738	Just that it's a deadline for this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22739	The deadline is the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22740	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22741	Okay. That's what the conclusion is. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, and that's Ad.16. Information on the problems, plans and transfer of money for the needs of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Public TV Service of BiH On this point, I will remind you that at the 69th session held on 25 October 2005, at the proposal of his colleague Lagumdžija, he adopted a conclusion requiring the Council of Ministers to prepare for the next session of the House information on the problems, plans and transfer of money for the needs of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Public TV Service of BiH as independent and professional institutions. We haven't received this information, unfortunately, so we're back on Dr. At the 74th session of the Council of Ministers on 21 February, Lagumdzija sent an emergency for the implementation of this conclusion, and when we convened this session, we put this item on the agenda. Unfortunately, we've never received written information before today. So we agreed not to remove the point, but simply to update the conclusion and to ask the Council of Ministers also to prepare for the next session a resolution ministry of written information related to the transfer of money and, of course, that all possible information that followed this story that we discussed at the last session regarding the Regulatory Agency. Who's up for it? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 35 votes, so we unanimously adopt this conclusion and have obtained the conditions to move to the 17th point, that's 78 Ad.17. A review of the conclusions adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives meetings during this term of office, concluded with the 73rd session You ladies and gentlemen have received a review of the conclusions adopted by this House from the constitution until the 73rd session. The review made up our service. Unfortunately, we don't have the conclusions that have been made. The review did not contain conclusions adopted in an integrated manner with reports from competent committees on specific issues, and in these cases, the Commission's reports were submitted to the institutions that had been bound by the conclusions. Also in this review, the conclusions adopted at the plenary sessions of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly are not contained. I note that this review of the conclusions was sent to the Council of Ministers with a re-training to provide information on the realization of the conclusions. I propose that we not open the debate, but that we review these conclusions made by the Parliamentary Assembly, so we re-deliver to the Council of Ministers by the next session and ask for their statement on what they have realised from the conclusions of the House of Representatives. Not only these, but those who are within the framework of the conclusions of individual commissions. Wait a minute, please. So this was so we wouldn't open the debate. We said. Of course. Plenary and commission, that's what this is all about. Yeah. That's what this is about. Prepare to vote. Please, don't discuss it, if I may beg. Vote now. Wait a minute. So that's it, we said we weren't going to have a debate, we were going to get the first report that we had something to discuss. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Okay. I find that with 28 votes to, one against, no one abstention has adopted this conclusion. Moving to the 18th point of the Ad.18 agenda. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the BiH Budget and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 adopted various amendments at home to the BiH institutions' 2006 budget, for which it is necessary to bring the same text into line. In the joint commission from this home we propose – Fatima Leho, Jelina Đurković, the third who is? And Vinko Zorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 28 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we have appointed a three-member commission composed of Mr Zorić, Fatima Leho and Jelina Đurković. 79 We move to the 19th point of the Ad.19 agenda. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 I propose the same commission. Do you agree? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I also find that with 30 votes for, 1st, no one abstentioned, so we have appointed three members in the joint committee of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the implementation of the BiH budget and of the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 in the same composition as for the previous commission. We're going to the 20th agenda, that's Ad.20. The granting of approval for ratification: (a) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (b) the Treaty on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – The National Way of Banja Luka – Gradiška, (c) the Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Enlargement of Donated Assistance of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001, (d) the Treaty on Loan – The Regional Project of the Railways between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (e) Protocol 14 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which relate to the completion of the system for the control of implementation of the Convention, provides that we conduct a separate discussion, and that unless there is a problem, therefore, we clarify all agreements. The word was sought by the chairman, or first deputy chairman, Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22742	Thank you very much. I welcome all respected MPs and MPs, and here as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which was yesterday at the limit of the quorum, and then further consulted with members of the Commission who could not come to inform you of two things. First, we received an explanation for these agreements and agreed that there were members of the Commission who, without dispute to this project relating to the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank for the national route Banja Luka Gradiška sought further information and requested that the statement on this issue be postponed until the moment the ministry 80 offered complete information on the components of an idea project that included the Sarajevo bypass, the Mostar ring, etc. However, in consultation today with the members of the Commission, based on the conclusions adopted yesterday as two of them. The first is therefore to ask the Council of Ministers for a priority plan in the construction and infrastructure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the task plan for all as representatives to do so. I think that's okay and that we never again plead ad hoc and before the final act, but that you have insight into what projects are, which is a review, and that as well as as these MPs in this house, we can conduct a principled debate by supporting projects of importance for this country. So my proposal, as chairman of the Commission, is that today we still agree on all these projects, and you're drowning to accept and strengthen these Commission conclusions as House conclusions, and that that way we open the debate when we open this review of priorities and projects, which are why this country will be in charge of getting and discussing. Here's my suggestion. I think you'll understand it and appreciate it, and here we are to be constructive today to finish it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22743	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. I think this can be accepted, therefore, to ratify the agreement, and of course it is logical to strengthen this Commission's conclusion, to ask the Council of Ministers as a list of priorities and responsibilities, and we agree. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I suggest we make a statement on the list of these projects together, so ratification. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - I therefore conclude that, unanimously with 29 votes, we agreed on ratification under (a) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (b) the Treaty on the Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – The National Path of Banja Luka – Gradiška, (c) the Memorandum of Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Enlargement of Donated Assistance between Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001, (d) the Treaty on Loan – the Regional Project of Railways between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (e) Protocol 14 with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is related to the addition of the Convention control system for the implementation of the Convention, of course with the conclusion of fellow Martin as President of the Commission. 81 We move to the 21st point of the Ad.21 agenda. The SIPE's information on the Abazović family's tragedy with the Rogatica Dama and gentlemen at the last session has reached a conclusion on Dr. Petar Kunić. We've received information from SIPE regarding this issue. It is under the designation ‘confidential’. So I'm asking that we treat this information that way, and so the public must be excluded from this point of the agenda. I regret it, but it's regulations, it's laws, we have to respect them. So a brief break for journalists and others to get out of the O.R. and remain the MPs themselves on this last item of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. [[PAUZA]] Who's answering for a word? My colleague Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22744	I thought Mr. Kunić would be the first, since his request for this report had arrived, so I waited a little while. First, I must say that as much, if not more than the tragedy of the Abazović family, so much is the tragedy of this report. I really can't understand one authority with those powers and these personnel that has the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, and that this case has only so much knowledge. The Agency's name is the Agency for Investigations, so protection gives us information on the meetings held and on this case. I can't really cover my disappointment with what I read here, and I have to say that I'm inclined to return this information to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, to show dissatisfaction with what's written here and ask for real information, it means what happened that day. Believe me, there's been a lot more, far more in the media about this than there is the Agency for Investigation and Protection. No wonder everything looks like what it looks like. What also irritates me here is the fact that now this is "sustainable" information and if it is, I agree that by law it should be, but then it should really be there to find what they have as knowledge and what it is is "extremely confidential". I believe that a lot of things in this case should be "closedly confidential", because much is not true in this case what EUFOR said. Many of them went around in their own, in response to all the issues that have arisen in public and because the deeper they need to be buried in the country, the bigger the secret is, because what happened there and what happened there at the very least deserves to, regardless of the jurisdiction of this state agency to open the case, or open the case. So they're really doing research on what happened there, not delivering us information on held meetings. So, I suggest we return this information to the conclusion that we expect this agency to be involved in investigating this case and deliver here the results that it came up with during that job. Thank you. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22745	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22746	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know how complete it is to return it, etc. The report discusses the state of the spirit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the state of the institutions, the general state. You have an open attack here, an armed attack on a house. I figured it out like this. I read only in the paper that they resisted, that they fired. And there's nothing here. We've got a dead man here, a dead woman, etc. As long as, besides when will this parliament and any other question - how long will these foreign forces be here? Are we ever going to ask that question? Will we one day have freedom? The agreement is signed, we change everything alive and what is needed and what is not needed. Niko one asks the question how long will they stay here and how long will they have the right to conduct an eclectic violation of human rights? Please, what are we afraid of? What we are afraid to ask the question of Parliament once to be given to them, say – please, gentlemen, enough of this has happened. Which, in what state are we in? Are we under occupation and how long will this occupation last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22747	Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22748	Gentlemen, let me pick up where professor is. The Kunić stopped. Professor, you said someone was murdered here. Here in this report, it doesn't say in the information. Says here he's wounded, etc. And we have no destiny. Imagine, in this information, we don't even have that someone died. At the same time, they're said to be wounded, and you don't know how. At the same time, there is talk of physical injury to the wound, and there is no way to talk about it. Well, I guess that's what we've been looking for. I guess as a human being, we understand each other so much. I agree with Mr. Novaković when he said media. I read both in Voice and Independent and Free Bosnia, etc., but more said by these people than they are. This is classic, through this information cover-up, they didn't even say how much the press said. And he insults that it's still "strictly confidential". I don't want to hold it in my hand at all. And in the end, look how we're appreciated. So imagine, centar Chief Šefik Halilović signed and delivered it to us, the Parliament that controls this institution. Why didn't the director sign it? Is that the director afraid to sign? He's obliged to sign Parliament's first man, don't give me a third. This man may be honest and kind, it's all right. I don't mean anything wrong with this man, but I guess that's basic order. Imagine, from this information you don't know the fate of these people, we don't even know it. Because here I think they're living professors. There's no one here that got hurt. They were wounded and no one succumbed. It doesn't say here. And we all know how it happened that a woman got hurt. I don't know what we should do with this, we should if we already want to have closed sessions of top-secret materials to really get something, I get the feeling that they may do a lot more, but they don't think what some MPs are going to read there, so they're going to pass it on, and then those who are, they're good with strangers... here in this way, they keep them together. Well, Professor Kunić said. This is a state of mind. We are saddened in Bosnia and Herzegovina and institutions. It's all one 83 mental circuit that's simply subservient. I don't know why I'm being subjective. Nowhere in the institution or anything... to find a normal man who normally does his job in order to tell the truth. I guess that's what you've been looking for in this case. You can get along and disagree with me, but people give a little dignity, we have to, we have to start discussing. Well, here's what I was going to say, to cut it short, etc. Well, good if they're not in charge of us seeing what their jurisdiction is and doing something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22749	Thank you. My colleague Belkić asked for a word. Just a little bit, Mrs. Đurković. Belkić, so do you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22750	Well, I don't think there are any MPs in this room who are absolutely untraceable for the truth. So, Mr Gligorić, you do not need to make us all depressed to the point that we are not able to ask. I absolutely agree with what Mr. Novaković said, unlike you, who talked about some things you can't see, you can see. We know exactly what happened. So the man was killed and we're asking to get us information, sorry, the wife was murdered and we're looking for information on why people did it, if they had to do it in those shops, etc. Have they passed the authority, the child, etc. So there's absolutely no dilemma. So let's just work out a way. These people have answered us. You spoke silently of the text, etc., but you saw the last sentence. They say we didn't participate and we have no information or we're not you. So let's see who we ask now. Is that, this European police.? Who do we ask now? They answered us, they could answer us immediately with two sentences – gentlemen we did not participate in this action or did we participate. But some of the meetings Momo said here talked, talked to us, and to tell us in the end, we didn't officially participate. Now it's just a question, I couldn't agree more, but let's see who? What's the question to pass on to? I would have sent a letter to the European police that was carrying out the action. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse us, give us information on the circumstances under which the woman was killed during this, these actions of yours. I don't know which other way to look. Or we could ask this director to explain what this information is. So there's no dilemma at all, no one escapes, nor does it occur to me to deafen myself to the event we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22751	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22752	Well, this is how we expected SIPA to tell us who was in charge of this thing we asked to investigate. So if they're not in charge, who is? And I suggest, since this is indeed inconclusive and written and dilettaneous and ignorant, that our commission, based on media reports, draw up a report and add SIPI to see what happened. So let's do it, because we have a lot more information than they do, so let's say here's the gentlemen from the SIPE this happened and this is what you should know. This is terrible if 84 of this kind of agency that has good authority doesn't know how to make a report and doesn't know who's supposed to make a report. We really need to say that we're protesting and that he's finally starting to do his job. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22753	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the president of the House, Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22754	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking if there's any need to answer, but I'm afraid we may not all make a mistake together. I don't think it's a bad report. But what is bad is what we think we should ask someone as a state Parliament is the largest legislative body in this country who should do what. And that's on the trail of what Professor Benton's been up to. Kunić spoke – the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Read some media, so you will see what is happening in Macedonia where analyses are being made that people from outside were part of the regulatory units that paid citizens, doing something else that was not in the interest of the citizens. But what we can do, so this is where SIPA says that we didn't participate and describe the event, the tragic event we know about how it ended. But Parliament can task SIPA to conduct an investigation, so, according to everything, we've been looking for information. So in the conclusion of information and people taxed us who did what. But I think it could be the conclusion that this parliament is in charge of SIPA to conduct an investigation, so in accordance with the law and with its powers and to inform us and to hold talks on whom there is a need, none and then deliver a report. So I think it might be an active conclusion that no one can deafen themselves to, and I think that, I think it might be, we can take this information to the knowledge. So we don't adopt it. It can be a starting point for thinking about the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina after reforms have been carried out. So whether the services we formed are SIPA, OSA, DGS are able to deal with the growing problems. Can I take responsibility for this myself? We unfortunately still don't have those assessments, though we do have a resolute Ministry of Security. But I would be free to say that we ask SIPE to conduct an investigation into this case and inform Parliament. So we've received tactical information about what's been going on and I agree that this is talking about a tragic reality situation in this country and I don't think it's necessary to blame people there who signed the report. So they wrote exactly that they, even here, are saying that, who was of the individuals, that the prosecution was therefore turning. The special prosecutor spoke to the court police, asked even to exclude SIPE's participation. So here what we're asking of the SIPE they're telling us that many said no, they don't need them here. That's what we need to discuss who's in this country that can tell us about the murder? The Agency that we've formed can't be asked to do so and to call on, say, special forces of the MUP to escort the wounded or killed to the Koshevo hospital, and that the service we pay is the only one who can't know and can't do it. That's what people write to you indirectly. So, and now it's said, it raises the question about the SIPI law, about the location, from the seat, from the seat, from the obstructions, did we do everything to thank everyone tomorrow – we say thank you we have services that have mastered every inch of this country and can deal with these problems. That's what's symptomatic of this letter. So now I'm asking a question just like the rest of us. So, can we ask now, I'm not a man who's an expert on 85 of this, asking the SIPE to conduct an investigation? Let him talk to you like he needs to. Why? I see you know this better than I do. That's why I'm asking why he can't? To have SIPA conduct an investigation. So it happened, there was a murder. We're looking to conduct an investigation. Has anyone abused the position, the rules, the laws, etc.? They can conduct that investigation. But we didn't ask him to conduct an investigation, we asked for information about how it happened. And here's the people wrote about how it happened. Well, I think we can, I'd suggest the conclusion that we're asking SIPE to conduct an investigation. Thank you very much. Is it a replica of Jelina? Oh, the replica of the Jelina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22756	You know, colleague Špirić, in order for someone to write information, he has to conduct an investigation. That's understood. But we also meant that the SIPA would investigate and make information. Based on what they're going to do with the information, except for how she did this unwittingly. But something else is at stake here. So, the SIPA doesn't feel, or it feels like there's no ingenuity, no ability, either it's in conflict with someone, or there's no telling who's supposed to be doing what. So I mean when we say - we're looking for information, it means an investigation. I agree that we have to have an investigation, and if we have to ask that same SIPI again, to write that the investigation is equal, or plus information, then that's how it should be. But it seems to me now, especially now that we've created here, I don't know how many agencies, this, this, that they crash and they push each other, or it's a hot potato that no one can get into. That's what they need to answer us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22757	I'm sorry. Either I can't read well, or we can't get to what I guess we all will. Here, people tell us -- after the end of the EUPIEMA meeting, managing police officers from EUPIEMA, these agencies have brought that SIPA police officers are not involved in activities, and that the BiH Prosecutor's Office needs to find a solution for Abazović Dragomir to be taken over by the judicial police, given that the same freedom has already been deprived. The head of the War Crimes Research Centre and his deputy went straight after that to the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and informed him of reasons for not including SIPE police officers. But the bypass service we formed gave legal authority to work. And now we want to say they're guilty, instead of saying "go ahead and conduct an investigation," to help them, so if someone shuts them down every time, and we ask when they'll master the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and will at all. So now I'm just asking a question, I don't know just what act and conclusion to find, but I think we should conduct an investigation. What she'll be like. Well, no one here is insecure, nor are we international. But the public needs to know, they need to have the answer I'm guessing, has anyone made a failure, who made a failure and what nature.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22758	Please replica Mr. Novaković. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22759	I think Mr. Chairman misread this position 2 on page 2. The SIPE police officers have decided that SIPA is not participating, not EUFOR. Please, after the end of the meeting at EUFOR's headquarters, the executive police officers of this agency have decided that SIPE police officers are not involved in the activities, and that the BiH Prosecutor's Office needs to find a solution for Abazović Dragomir to be taken over by the judicial police, etc. Please, people have made a decision that they don't involve themselves and that they're competent to engage. It's not EUFOR.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22760	Maybe I got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22761	At its meeting at the EUFEMA headquarters, police officers of the Agency decided not to involve the Agency. Please. I would pray, I suggested, it seems to me that my conclusion is on Mr Špirić's conclusion in the second part where he says to open the investigation and get here, though I said within 30 days. It's a matter of assessing now whether it's a real deadline within 30 days, or not, but it seems to me like a 30-day period in which it can be carried out. So I think we have about the same conclusion and on that background we should do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22762	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mehmed Žilić asked for a word. I figured out the replica. I'm sorry. I thought it was a replica. Jozo Križanović reported for the discussion a long time ago. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. Please, I apologize to my colleague. Here you go. Never mind, they'll all get their word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22763	Thanks, buddy. I'm really not going to talk for too long, because I'm sort of agreeing with colleagues who used to say it, but I wanted to not publicly support a report like this and a way of doing it, which would be when you add it all together is like your own... what they say. You see, it speaks a lot about the relationship to this Parliament. And here I am, being self-critical again, it's our fault. In our practice, we have tolerated everything so far, and I'm not surprised not only to have them answer us like this, but to be ignored with an answer at all. Before I say this crucially, I would like to ask what was the conclusion, or the question of this home, did he address himself at the SIPU, or the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22764	On the table. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22765	Directly on the SIPU.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22767	I think it's the first mistake of this home. This is a matter for the Department of Security. Here, what's the point of this home is to determine whether or not human rights have been violated during the arrest operation? Did it come out, as I would say, of limitations, etc. Therefore, one real information is required. Unfortunately for such operations, there are injuries and murders. We just want to know what the circumstances are. Were these the necessary measures to come about? I ask for that truth and other responsibility for such action. We are coming to the conclusion now that we have addressed this to the SIPU, which says counterpart Gligorić to sign the Agency's director, but some service chief. And what I'm saying is that as a society, we need to find out that this issue is also for the Council of Ministers, especially the Ministry of Security. And in this conclusion that we're trying to get to him, so he doesn't refer to the SIPA again. Ask the Department of Security to give us information on what's going on with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22768	Thank you. A colleague of Raguže asked for a word, then. I'll have a colleague, Žilić. Here you go. And we're bringing the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22769	Dear colleagues, I would like to help, in fact, the European mission has a special task force to arrest war criminals. Their mission is free of intelligence to act freely. But I think they're obliged to report it to the Attorney General and that it would be a real question for us to instruct the prosecutor to give us the way and procedure of this action that has been done. You see, they have that mandate. We're at the wrong address. SIPA, they don't have to notify SIPU, they don't even have to notify the Ministry of Security. That's their mandate. They have a special unit of European forces and police and these military forces to arrest war criminals. They act independently based on their intelligence and their developing network in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So he's heading straight for the mission. Now at this point, I don't know, I think they have to inform the D.A. about this action. The real address is right here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22770	Thank you. A fellow Raguž. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22771	So you see, as far as I can see in the agenda, information has been asked about the tragedy of the Abazović family, right. From what we've got, we don't have that information, right? I mean, we have to figure it out. We don't have any details here how it happened, or if anyone who has a mandate like Mr. Žilić said, which I don't doubt, whether within the framework, it happened within that mandate, or beyond that mandate. That's what someone has to say. If we're a country and an institution, I support all these proposals that went towards the dignity of these institutions and this home. And this is an opportunity. Here we don't have to party or national, it's about family loss and we, if anything else, have the right to information as the beginning of a serious story at all. The second thing, doesn't mean and I won't generalise the role of the international community and EUFOR, I'm experiencing them generally positively, there may be a circumstance, an incident, an accident, and why it wouldn't be treated like that. I'm not saying it was like that. But that's why he needs information. SIPA didn't give us that information. Finally, they here say on page one, says -- EUPIM immediately afterwards held a meeting where staff explained details about the action. They don't tell us those details, they don't give them here. Not even that. At least they passed on the details that EUPIM as their version of the event, so they gave it to us. So we don't have that either. So even this information, I don't want to criticise the SIPU now or this part, but I think this is more coming out of the mandate and this kind of correspondence, and I'd like to join all those who agree that we have an institutional response to what happened, so let the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security, who she'll be in charge of, whether SIPU or anyone else, but in this country if you keep telling us take responsibility, become partners, no one can be outside the law, so neither I, nor a stranger, nor you, anyone else. I mean, we have to introduce that practice. Here's to not prejudge some difficult qualifications, this information can't satisfy. We should go to the Council of Ministers with these conclusions that were here and that is one dignified response to the tragedy of the family. And what's the matter, here's what we need to get accurate information.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22772	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. Jelena Đurković asked for it, so Dr. Kunić is looking for her. No, you're not. Well, then, dr. It's a Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22773	I think we are, so we can approach the conclusion. In fact, I really agree with Mr. Raguž. No one can be outside the law on this globe earth. There really is, we know, we all know that some are out of the law. But let's not just keep it on BiH institutions. So let's carry out, put in charge of the authorities to carry out the investigation and inform the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the pact, that is, the competent authorities. Once we get an investigation, when we have some information to notify the authorities, theirs. If we keep it and keep it in closed frames it will happen further, the old government happened, Abazović. It'll go on. If as people we can accept it, we really can't. I can't accept that, even if it was not about who, some NATO pact, etc. etc. It really goes beyond measure, human dignity, so I can kill a woman there, attack a house. And that 89, of course, is, of course, if it's a mistake, let's explain how wrong it is. Let them respond. Let's get them to pull the strings. And that's what we're going to do through their authorized organs. So let's look into what really happened and we'll send a letter to the NATO Pact's competent institutions. But the state appears, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22774	I'd like to thank my colleagues. Let's try, if we can bring this to an end. There can be different views now. Let's try to focus this. So, can we draw a conclusion, so it is obvious that with this information Parliament, as far as I can see, is not satisfied. So we didn't get the answer. Can we now conclude that we are asking the Council of Ministers and Resolute ministarsta of Security to conduct an investigation into the Abazović family's tragedy and to inform parliament. And then after that, we'll see where the next address exists when we get the information. Can we have one, but yes. Please, give me a minute, colleague SIpović, help me. So you help, so everyone who answers helps me too much, so I can't shape. So, can we, just a little please? Is this the conclusion that affects what we talked about? I think it's on the trail of what Križanović is about, I agree. So, we task the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry of Security to conduct an investigation into the Abazović family tragedy and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Please, just a little bit. Here, come on. A colleague of Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22775	On the trail of what Mr. Žilić was. It's him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22776	Well, we have the answer to that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22777	Please, the consequence of what you've titled on the SIPU is unknown to the Annex to the Dayton Agreement. These powers, please after SFOR, these, look have Annex VIII, Annex X, Annex XI.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22778	We got a buddy, Sipović. We have the D.A.'s response. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22779	You give again wrongly, directly Parliament can, directly, address the boss of this which will give certain circumstances. Surely not those who are in part /or veil/ secrets, but look, you are asking from SIPE
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22780	No, from SIP, you're not, I don't understand you again, you didn't help me. Our address is the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry, and let them keep looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22781	Well, then, could the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Security, be my recommendation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22782	How can he not? So we're talking to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security, not the SIPA.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22783	I know what I'm saying. I want to help. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-03-07-0.u22784	Prepare to vote on the conclusion, to ask the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry of Security to investigate, so to open an investigation into the tragic situation of the Abazović family and inform this home. Prepare to vote. 30 days. Vote now. So, a 30-day deadline. Wait a minute, sit down a few people. Just a little bit of patience for you to sit down, then for God's sake. - So 32 for, no one against, no one abstention. We unanimously adopted this conclusion. I ask you, then, to inform you that the next session will most likely or almost certainly be 23 this month. We have an obligation under the Electoral Law to finish. There'll be a few more points. So be prepared for the session in that week. You'll get calls in time. Thank you very much. Today we were discussing, this is just a few returned materials “stretchedly pos.” I ask. Put the materials back in the office. The session was finished at 5:00.
