ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21799	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 73rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present guests, representatives of public information funds. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests, representatives of international organisations who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of this house and all those who are present, have been invited. According to the Service report, I find that 31 MPs, 22 from the Federation, 9 from the RS, are present, which means we can make full and full decisions. One part of the MPs justified their absence to the Service, and one part that was not present is expected to join us during the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we held this morning a session of the Extended College, where we agreed to supplement and amend the proposed agenda. Namely, paragraphs 8 and 10 have been removed from the agenda - these are - Report on the alignment of the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Human Rights and Consumer Protection Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Both points were removed for the reason that the Joint Commission, due to the official path of certain members, failed to finish the job of complying with these laws. Three points are added to the session agenda and one point is added. Request of the Council of Ministers for the Reviewed Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 2. The request of MP Dušanka Majkić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure and 3. Appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. You've got the updated agenda. I would also like to draw your attention that we have agreed in the last College, there have been requests, we have asked the presidents of the clubs not to go with new points of the agenda today, or conclusions, because the extended college adopted 2 one general conclusion that our service is an analysis of the execution of the conclusions and decisions of this Parliament, regardless of which addresses we have referred them to, is primarily meant by the Council of Ministers' address, especially the urgent conclusions relating to tariff customs policy and the rest, in order to have it as an official item of the agenda at the next session and not to open special working conclusions each time. We have done this for the reasons that we want to leave these addresses with time to prepare and write and make up the report that we could discuss about this session, and so please if there are similar requests from fellow Members to understand that we have concluded this together at the Enlarged College. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21800	Ladies and gentlemen, I am exactly 8. 11th asked for a agenda item related to Corridor Vc to go out next to Neum and Luke's issue in Neum as Bosnia and Herzegovina's strategic state plan. So it's been more than 2.5 months and I don't see any reason why this agenda hasn't been in Parliament so far. The explanation was that by 30.12., our council of ministers would receive a reply from the Croatian government and would naturally give their opinion in a consistent manner. I therefore demand that this item of the agenda be, if not today, at the next session of this Parliament, because it has both long-term and short-term importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21801	I thank my fellow Potočnik. It's covered by this conclusion. We know we passed it on to the Council of Ministers and that's why we want to get an answer once we have one responsible relationship. She had the same attitude as the Transport and Communications Commission. We have considered it at the request of this commission, Mr Jovanović, but we have taken this view aware that we must simply analyse the execution of decisions and conclusions of this home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21802	If I may, Mr. Špirić. It's all right. But time is running, our sleep is being used, so to speak, the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and don't let us get into a situation of our irresponsibleness so we don't have to do what we have to do as a state. Because of that and the intervention, I don't intervene because it doesn't go according to procedure that's normal. But make sure you as a college that we have this point at the next session and take our stand and thus prevent the building of a bridge at Neum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21803	Thank you. We'll do everything in our power. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. 3 I conclude the debate between ladies and gentlemen and I find that we have adopted the next agenda and I thank all those who have accepted the suggestions of the extended college. So under 1. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House Conclusion on the examination of the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the results of the resolution of the performance of the Association of Decertified Cops, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. The request of Member Momčilo Novaković to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of MP Dušanka Majkić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Report from the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the initiative of MP Nikola Špirić to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the chairman of the Management Board of the ICC, 10. Report by the Joint Commission on an attempt to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the revision of BiH institutions, 11. Report of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office on the audit carried out for 2004: (a) General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, Offices and Services, (b) Institutions of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, (c) Institute for Accreditation of BiH, (d) Institute of Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property of BiH, (e) Election Commission BiH, (f) Competition Council of BiH, (g) BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, (h) Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, (i) Ministry of Defence of BiH and (j) Ministry of Justice; 12. The appointment of members of the House committee instead of the deceased Abdulah Nakaš and Seade Palavrić, 13. The appointment of three members to the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, 4 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on the reading of their citizens and foreigners, (c) Agreement on technical co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan, (d) Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, (e) Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation in the area of the rights of war victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families, (f) United Nations Convention against Corruption, (g) Convention on Cyber Crime, (h) Additional Protocol on Cyber Crime in connection with the punishment of acts of racist and xenophobic nature between the Governments of the Republic of BiH and the Republic ofTurkey , the Republic ofTurkey , the Republic ofTurkey , the Republic ofTurkey , the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic ofCroatia, Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period from 01.06 to 31.12. 2004 – pov. material. Ladies and gentlemen, we move to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the implementation of the House Conclusion on the discussion of the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the results of the performance of the Association of Decertified Officers, as you know, I informed you at the last session that on the basis of the proposal of several parliamentary clubs, we have called on the Council of Ministers to submit on the agenda on the issue of the Decertified Officers' Report on Human Rights, Immigrants, Refugees and Asylum on the results of the resolution of the performances of the Association of Decertified Officers and that we will put it on the agenda of this session as the first item of the agenda. This conclusion was reached in the Council of Ministers on January 17th. I will remind you that this is a conclusion that was adopted at the 59th session of this House on 29 June 2005. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Kebo, the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, came forward. I also greet him, and here I give him my word. Go ahead, Minister. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21804	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, dear guests, on January 17th of this year, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina concluded that the Council of Ministers will request that the opinion of the Venice Commission be held on the agenda of the UN Security Council meeting in order to ensure an audit, i.e. a second-degree procedure on de-certified police officers. The activities led by the Council of Ministers were limited by a statement by the president of the Security Council on 25 June 2004, in which the Council found that domestic authorities could not decertify, nor courts, and that this was only in the jurisdiction of the UN institutions and that the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina were obliged to implement decisions in relation to the move under the mandate of the UN in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must tell you that we have been dealing with this problem for a long time and that despite this statement, we have continued the diplomatic activities that have been completed here these days and today on 30 January, the head of the mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the UN, Mr Miloš Prica, after much longer and very successful diplomatic activity in New York and I, under the authority of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been lobbying to re-evaluate the Security Council's position and make the appropriate decision regarding the move, which would allow people who have been denied the basic human right, the right to appeal to do so right and to take advantage of it. I must tell you that the basis for this activity has been the opinion of the Venice Commission, which has been obtained from persistent insistence and advocacy of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and the foreign minister and this document of the Commission, which enjoys a huge reputation in the world for human rights resolution, has been the basis for us to take the following activities in January. I, as I said to the Council of Ministers and in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, held talks with the ambassadors of five permanent members of the Security Council, while in New York, our envoy Miloš Prica held talks with 12 of the 15 members of the Security Council. I can tell you that things in this case are getting better. I expect today's letter, which concludes this Security Council activity, to open up after all the talks so far, the possibility of a decision to decertify police officers. I must say that of all the ambassadors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am a member of the Council, the permanent members of the Security Council have shown understanding of our position, and I particularly want to highlight the personal involvement and support of the British and French ambassadors. The UN headquarters held talks with the US ambassadors of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, France, the Qatar of the Republic of Greece, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Republic of Congo, the Republic of Tanzania as the President of the Security Council, Japan and the Slovak Republic. Also yesterday, talks were held with Mr. Volfang Veber, head of the UN Peace Operations Department in Europe and Latin America and on Friday with Mr. Hakinskon, with a legal adviser at the UN Secretariat. Based on all the conversations we've had so far, we're informing this high house that the UN Secretariat is looking kindly to the essence of our request. Of course, everyone pointed out the need for the Security Council to make such a decision, but according to the information we have, such a mood has been expressed both directly and through a formulation to demonstrate the understanding of our efforts to achieve the basic right of these people, so that the Security Council's decision will not be some 6 precedent in light of the fact that the UN Mission in Liberia and Haiti are also reshuffled by local police certification. Here, I want to tell you that we are meaning today, that is, if tonight in American time the official note will be sent in line with the Council of Ministers' conclusions and at one of the next sessions, and since 1 February, the chairmanship of the US ambassador will be given the opportunity to, most likely, resolve this issue in accordance with the legal, international legal system with the right of these people to have the opportunity to appeal in accordance with the Convention and finally resolve this issue. On this occasion, I want to show full respect and understanding for people who have been de-certified without the right of appeal to their patience and tenacity and to say that what we have done now is only now, to restore the debate before the Security Council based on the position of the Venice Commission which clearly and precisely determines that the UN is the only institution that can audit. There were several possibilities offered to representatives, to the ambassadors of the member states. It is an opportunity for the current EU mission to do so, the OHR, domestic institutions, authorities. I think there's a solution somewhere. Here's what I'd like to introduce you to all the details, that probably the UN is forming an explicit group to do this job. This is where I'm building up, please. We have asked for the review of members of the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska and the Federation, 157 of them, whose right is that, which we think we will finally resolve in this way, in accordance with our responsibilities to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and respecting the international law and obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has under the Peace Agreement to do so. This means that I want to inform this home that as soon as we get the Security Council's decision to deliver that decision. And there remains that issue that is not in the jurisdiction of the state, which is a matter of social care and assistance to these people, these people. That's what we're going to try through the activities of entity and other levels of government to help them in this situation. The process and behaviour of the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this case has been assessed as reasonable, does not prejudice the current certification process that has allowed the creation of effective and respectable police and I think we will meet our obligation to people who have been waiting so long. We couldn't before, now we've done it, and I have guarantees that this job will be done as this high house expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21805	I would like to thank Minister Kebi for this information on the activities of the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry in this matter. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić, so Dr. Avdić, and Dr. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21806	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here we have heard here from Minister Keba about the procedure, and as far as it came and what is expected when this request is being addressed by decertified police officers. I loved the ministers that you mentioned the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an institution, because you said that the opinion or attitude of the Venice Commission served as the basis of three points, that you have now established before the UN, or the Council of Security, and you have forgotten that the Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly and unequivocally established a violation of human rights, the International Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 6, 13, 14, and that I do not list further the International Protocol 2nd point 7, and we know that all of this applies and that it is above the local laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I think you should have formed a review committee as a Council of Ministers. You didn't do it so we wouldn't mind some international factors. We are obliged here to protect the human rights of citizens in this country because we are bound by the International Convention and the Constitution and quite enough and we have clearly established in the Commission that they have been violated. That's why I'd suggest that, a little while and in conversation with Dr. Avdić, here's the guy who answered, so maybe he can explain it in more detail. I believe that this parliament should form a review committee, and everything that comes in the meantime from the Security Council we will use is no problem. Don't wait for anything, and then we'll go back to the procedure. Can we go to the event to meet, to get on time. What Mr. Potočnik said, we're in some sleep phase. That's right. We're never able to organize ourselves like that, be functional and not waste any time. These people have nothing to live on. They've been wronged and their families, and when we talk about human rights violations, I'm now raising this to a higher level. This House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Peoples, the Parliamentary Assembly as a whole violates human rights in BiH because it adopts such laws. We have passed the BiH Criminal Law, where we were assured by the OHR and others that everything is in accordance with the international convention, and you have no right to appeal at the Court of Justice in BiH, as these people do not have the right in the second degree. So what are we doing here? That's why I think we need to review every law. At the very least, we should've asked for a replacement of the Justice Minister, who assured us here that everything was fine, in accordance with... So to solve this issue without getting back into the phase, we talk fine about it, time goes by, people have a problem. The problem is complicated. Let us today form a committee for the revision of the decertified police officers and take into account the report and conclusions of the Commission on Human Rights, or the House of Representatives, who has accepted all this without a single amendment, and it is quite enough to do so and send a message to those unfortunate people whose rights have been violated, not to be affected by these painted shoes to the ministerial and MPs and to be concrete to end this today, if we are honest with these people. We have nothing to wait for from the UN Security Council, we could use that, but you're doing your job in the meantime, MPs. So I propose that we end this point very consciously, very responsibly, with concrete results, not in a series of discussions, which are passed on in a series of non-respectable conclusions. And, to finish, we, as a House of Representatives, have committed the Council of Ministers to our conclusion. But there's a new problem opening up. Why not respect otherwise the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, which there are countless. We need to dedicate a special agenda point to get a report on what they've realized and what they're not. Why didn't they do it? Among them is this conclusion of the House of Representatives, which is prolonged with different explanations. It is a shame that they had to strike hunger before the OHR to prove their rights, it is a shame for these MPs in this house and no one else, MPs of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21807	I thank Dr. Gligorić. Word has Dr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, I, my colleague Gligorić, to a large extent because he wanted what I was going to say, but here I will repeat that in the decision to certification police officers, it is quite clear that respect for international standards of human rights, respect for property laws, especially..., means, strictly at the top of the list of priorities in terms of criteria for police certification was respected international standards of human rights. The Commission of this House has established a plating violation of the fundamental human rights and the inability of the second procedure, in terms of complaints before domestic courts and we know that we have had interventions in OHR in this regard, etc. Which means it's one dimension. The second dimension of the Venice Commission simply explained many things and made it quite clear that it conveys the opinion of the UN Secretariat, which says that the UN sekretarijat is ready to assist any regular body, which may be authorised by the Security Council to review the certification case, deliver to these authorities... case by case etc. and expresss its readiness to assist in this process and says that the UN Secretary-General can appoint three members of the reviewing body. We're only tonight, respecting what Mr. Kebo was saying, but tonight we're making a note to the Security Council, so far we've been lobbying, so far we've spoken to the ambassadors of all honour, all that's fine. It is not easy to reach the Security Council, but we must have concrete documents standing before the Security Council, in terms of the requirement for a simple establishment of a verification committee, a simple procedure for certification of the BiH police certification procedure, i.e. complaints of 157 decertified police officers. So do we have that document or not? Mr. Secretary says we still don't have it. We'll send him tonight, which means we've really had time to do it by now. This takes three and a half years. It doesn't really make sense for cops to strike hunger, some other way, simply draw out such echoes and these kind of agendas at the BiH Parliament, or at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The Secretary-General may appoint a commission. It may appoint three members of the reviewing body and, in this context, the Venice Commission has stated and shall approach the certification process, i.e. according to complaints from 157 decertified police officers. I think that, however, we can either find a common language with the Council of Ministers or take over this part of the responsibility, in line with the conclusions of his commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum, which has clearly assessed and made a very good report for this Parliament that we have adopted. I would suggest one conclusion. You can change that later, that's not the problem. Given that the Council of Ministers has not taken it so far, today we see that it is part of concrete measures to appoint a committee to review de-certified police officers, with the prior consent of the UN Security Council, respecting the report of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, to help carry out a review of the certification case, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is seeking and the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, prepares the composition of the Commission together with the European Commission and the Mission of the UN, to review the case of de-certified police officers and at the first session, so that this House would stand behind this procedure, while the vjeće of 9 ministers tonight sends a formal request to the Security Council for the establishment of such a commission. So we would be willing to welcome for the next session of the House of Representatives, simply to have the composition of committees, mixed committees, not only authorities, but also to respect this part of the European Commission and the normal mission of the UN, and in this context we may, in this way, end this case with normal consent, as all documents say, simply the Security Council, which has made such a decision and trust to the IPTF.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21809	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, there's a colleague of Novaković's, so maybe you do. Let's just finish the line and then you'll finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21810	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I just want to replicate to Mr. Gligorić at one point here. I really don't feel like Mr. Gligorić. I mean, I don't feel like there's something I should be ashamed of. As an MP, I've done everything that's been done, so possible as an MP so far not to come to this. So I didn't have any effect on what happened, and that's why I'm not ashamed. The Commission has made a report on our very high-quality report. I supported that report with everything that ended up being a proposal for some conclusions, and I don't see what I would be ashamed of for someone else's or someone else's mistake. So someone else needs to be. I don't feel that way. That's why I've replicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21811	Okay, just for a little while, Mr. Gligorić to avoid replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21812	It's not a problem. I appreciate what Mr. Novaković says. First of all, when I spoke generally, we should be ashamed, I thought when we made one decision and made a commitment to the Council of Ministers, which we formed that they had to respect. If they are unable to comply, then we must put their trust, their responsibility, and put them back here after a month or three months and review their work, as much as they have risen above Parliament, which is contrary to the Constitution, and I thought that we are ashamed, and for that reason we should, here you are now supporting me, and I am glad that we have found each other, and at the same time I wanted to say a little bit and figuratively in that sense that we are all responsible, because what Mr Duraković said last time, and I was saying above Parliament means there is only Bog, if we, indeed, are that highest level of legislative authority, and we are, then we must take responsibility, that everything that is wrong, without distinction doing so in the division and jurisdiction of executive power, we are ultimately carrying that kind of responsibility, because we have the opportunity to ask for, we invite them to be responsible for any action that they have done in the meantime as executive authority. And that's why it was my intention to say, because people are suffering in the meantime in this endless time not to solve a life issue, and that's why I thought that's why we should have done it, and when I mentioned finally the Criminal Law, you also have a problem that we simply adopted, comes by emergency procedure, you don't have the opportunity to change 10, not a single point, it's all in accordance with international norm. You believe, so we're naive as MPs, we let it go, and then later in application you see that the problem is. Then their responsibility should be sought again by the minister of justice, as in this case should be sought from the minister of human rights, if the problem arises and if the correct man has set up, but I think it is a principle that should be respected in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21813	I thank you, I will before I give the word to Minister Keba, I think this situation that we will find the right solution. She's very complicated and complicated, I don't think there's anyone in BiH who doesn't want to get rid of this. I think that, specifically, Minister Kebo, when people strike, went ahead, talked to them, and that's the first time someone's gone dissatisfied and said what the authorities are doing to solve this problem. I don't think it's easy to solve this problem, but I appreciate every MP's efforts, specifically Minister Keba and the Council of Ministers, which is looking for the best possible solution. I believe today's debate will lead to that. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21814	I just wanted to give you two information. You know, when you go out to a respected home like this, when you're talking, you have the opportunity to make a mistake and not make all the possible facts. In the conversation we had, we used the authority and the assessments of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the assessment of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration and all that it contains in its name and the authority of Parliament has helped us to endure in this business, this is the first. Secondly, I wanted to tell you next. Here's an official note on the review of the documents on de-certified police officers. It was an assessment of there were documents in BiH, on which it could be executed or not. I, in my capacity as Human Rights Minister, sent a letter to Miss Madlen Riz, head of the Human Rights Department, and on Friday I received a piece of the documentation found in our sector. It hasn't been reviewed yet, but it contains details that can help assess human rights violations. Unfortunately, I must say that most of the documentation has gone to the UN by withdrawing the IPTF mission, so any activity without co-operation with the UN, in terms of obtaining these documents, in this case would not have been coordinated enough. Therefore, I fully support these demands, the assessments that you have made and the fact that Parliament has also contributed with its authority to take on such a character that it must also be respected internationally. And the fact that we got a piece of the file, that it's really just part of, that superficially, it was only Friday that we came to an assessment and knowledge of individual cases, but that's not enough for a full review, which would have legal facts and these people, which is unquestionably violated fundamental human rights with the Convention on Human Rights and there's no dilemma, as there's no doubt that this time we've done, just to answer why it's going today. We simply assessed, let's lobby, so we tested those who have a significant veto in the Security Council, then not to skip someone, cause any vanity or majorization. We've had conversations with, and those who are missing members of the Security Council, got that agreement, could have done that on Friday, 11 last week, but yes, but here's a good intention not to make a mistake in this case, we're going to do it tonight. There's only a difference in the weather situation. In time, because they are now asleep, and this document has already been written and it could have been a time difference in front of this house in the integral text, which would convince us that what we have done has been translated into a document, which I must never say for sure, determines the Security Council has a full chance, to be accepted and corrected by injustice over to humans.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21815	I thank Minister Kebi. First of all, the seriousness of this problem and the relation to this House and the conclusions of our committee of Parliament. Dr. Lagumdžija called in his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21816	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, first of all to thank Minister Keba for finally giving us the information. We were able to hear from this information that on January 18th, the Council of Ministers held a session at which it reacted. Let me remind you, a direct occasion for what we are talking about today, my letter, which I sent to the 12.1. Chairman of the Council of Ministers and you, Mr. Chairman, asking that this Parliament be informed on 16 January and that it is practically Parliament to answer the question of why it was not realised, unless by the behaviour of the people who were damaged, it was evident that the House of Representatives had not been completed since 29.6 last year. I have to admit that it's encouraging for me what's been going on for the last 15 days, I'm sorry it wasn't before. If I understand correctly, maybe it's a little misunderstanding or fatigue, maybe we're in New York time too, so we're early. Indeed, it is encouraging for me to have Ambassador prica here, 30.1. And that is today, as far as I understand it, to speak to 12 of the 15 ambassadors, that at 3 or 4 a.m. they are talking about this in their time is, indeed, a great encouragement. I admire this commitment to UN bureaucracy to this problem of ours. I just can't believe it, but if it does, it gives me extra hope and encouragement. I'm glad the Council of Ministers, if not 18.7 reacted last year, then to react 18.1 this year. It's all very nice to meet you. Unfortunately, however, it is not for us to inform the public and people whose fundamental human rights are clearly compromised that we are solving something. It's up to us to handle this. This parallel and this council of ministers have the possibility, if they have the political will to solve the temporary problem of those people we're talking about right now. I would like to remind you, on 11 November 2002, on behalf of the Council of Ministers then Minister of Foreign Affairs, I apologize to the then Minister of Human Rights, refugee Mr Zubak, who acted the same function, which Mr Kebo today has addressed to the UN mission and the IPTF Commissioner, I was personally involved in all of this and I know well what I'm talking about and may I be corrected by anyone who thinks I'm wrong. 12 According to the current laws of BiH, proof of guilt or innocence for a crime is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court. However, the IPTF called for an agreement on international forces from the Annex XI to the General Peace Agreement in BiH, since it is responsible for conducting monitoring and investigations, which may be considered by launching the procedure. So, official investigations, and this process, including this procedure in BiH, do not exclude the application of basic human rights as set out in Article 2.5. Anexa XI of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and the Constitution of BiH. In other words, they have the right to do this, but they have no right as they do this to violate fundamental human rights, in accordance with conventions internationally accepted and even entered the BiH Constitution. In other words, we are not here on a legal ground that is negative for us. There is no UN right through its official mission then to make decisions which are contrary to the conventions and standards set out in the Constitution which is ours and in the Framework Peace Agreement, because they are called upon to the Framework Peace Agreement, and there are frameworks in the Framework Peace Agreement that neither they can cross, and in particular they cannot cross... officials. To me then, here I want it to be known here, to be registered from a pay phone, then the most responsible representatives of the UN told me, since I was the foreign minister, we lost the election and we were in that transition as they say, promised on the matter of Sarajevo police officers, those famous specteres, those in Bijeljina, Zvornik, and not everyone in Bihaæ, that all those people, in the court procedure, prove that the error of administrations were suspended, replaced, that they would be respected and that they would behave in accordance with those decisions. So, they obviously lied and went to Liberia and now the minister tells us when they solve it in Liberia, and then we, if they can't, won't be able to. We're not going to wait for those of us here to cook this up, when they've done the same thing in Liberia, then we can do it here, we can't do it. I'm sorry, but I think this is about the willingness of the people, I appreciate and fully agree with Mr. Keba, I appreciate the support we have from the ambassador, or the government of the Member States, the permanent members of the Security Council, and everyone in this country who could throw it down to that point, he threw it out, that Mr. Kebo knows very well, and there's a willingness in the Security Council to settle this for mutual benefit. Here you go, and it's good to point out one more time. This is about a process which, on occasion, showed that every fifth de-certified officer is, was convicted without trial. So this isn't about denying the whole de-certification process. This is about every fifth. This is about a second-degree procedure. And even what they say is one so good result that only one fifth missed, but since they missed every fifth, it doesn't mean that each fifth should end up on the street like the other with which it's not the case. Also, Mr. Chairman, I think it's very good that what we've heard is that through entity power, something will be resolved about working-law status. However, it is nice that they will try, but we have an obligation, given that human rights are guaranteed by the BiH Constitution and this is their authority that guarantees their human rights. We need to find a way and a mechanism to protect these rights by making a decision of this level and, if necessary, by means of this level, while whoever is at a lower level in the principle of subsidiarity or whatever you want not to do in their domain. In other words, there is no reason why we should not assume today that if the appropriate fund is formed tomorrow, the Council of Ministers is obliged to resolve what the Minister of Human Rights has told us here, that it will probably be resolved through the entity, so if they resolve the obligation. Nothing will put people's money back in it. But if they don't solve it for who knows what reason we are obliged here, because I remind you in a letter sent by the current Human Rights Minister to the AIPTF, attention should be paid to the possibility of launching 13 harmful claims against Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely the Federation or Republika Srpska, if human rights violations occur by the competent authorities. In other words, these people have every right to sue the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities, so let the entity states agree on who's to blame. To ask for compensation because their human rights have been violated and because their children do not have certified health books, they do not have pension, social, etc. The elemental assumption for this would be that, in addition to opening the audit process, we clearly tell international institutions – we invite you to participate in the audit, but there is no problem with us starting this process, you are welcome to get on the train any minute now. If you don't have the paperwork, if we don't have the paperwork because you took it, well, gentlemen, that's your problem, it's not ours. Our records, our courts say these people are innocent. Here you go, prove them guilty, and then they'll come back here with a hundred documentation, and then they'll prove themselves guilty for these 150 and the change people have hollow records. They know that very well. And that's why the story has no record. How sick there's no record. You kick a man out of work because some informant told them he didn't have the right papers, so when he showed that he had everything and when the court said it was okay, then it turned out there was no paperwork. So you can't do that. I think we should start this process. That you should, I'm really taking the opportunity to say that you've taken one step forward, but don't stop there. We give you our hand to go together. Let's start the process like that tomorrow. To form a commission according to the 29th conclusion that you unfortunately did not form. What's done is done. There you are. There you are. Let's form a commission of yours and ours. Have several parliamentarians join the committee. No Niko's gonna be happy on that committee who is. I suggest, we don't have to let the College propose now, we're ready to go in as far as we're concerned with the SDP. A committee to be a joint committee of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and to be established tomorrow, tomorrow, immediately tomorrow. And that will begin the revision process tomorrow. And will remain empty chairs for representatives of the international community. Whenever you come, you're in a quorum. We'll finish the job without you, and I invite you to come. And open this process. There's no reason not to. I think that this would be very good, Mr. Chairman, to oblige the Council of Ministers to come and form an appropriate fund. Let him put it in the budget, let it separate it from the liquid assets that these people who were sentenced without a court order have what they belong to, which is that they have the privileges that arise from working legal status when they are suspended. Let us treat these people as suspended and give them financial benefits and fundamental rights that arise from social, pension and so forth. That they have paid for it, and it can be resolved by an appropriate means of telling the funds from the current reserve, and then the entities will make up for it when the court makes the decision that they make. That is why my proposal, Mr Chairman, has several conclusions - the Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers to move immediately to the realization of the conclusions of session 59 29.6. I know it might be a little silly, but let's re-indemnify them to do what they were supposed to do half a year ago, but let's do it again right now. They won't report us for 30 days. Give it to me now. 14 - It is up to the Council of Ministers, second, to provide, in the 2006 budget, or from the budget reserve funds, immediately with the means to resolve social and labour legal issues that are in line with the status of suspended officials until entity authorities implement obligations towards people until the audit process is completed. So I don't see that there's anything controversial about these 158 people having children like those books, that they're doing social and retirement and that they have suspended status, which means they have one in accordance with the rules, it seems to me that in the Republic of Srspkoy it's 50, and in the Federation 60% or not, those basic salaries. So they can pay what they say of their money when they come here to strike hunger. Ever since they were suspended, Berize, naturally. What they say can be bridged, they can be owed, let it be given to them immediately until this is settled, so let it be done when they retire when they have seven years to eat. If you can do it now. So I think we should be, we should have a commitment until the process is over that they have 50%, that they have the privileges that come out of the suspension, according to the Labour Law. It's known what it looks like, but to get them started immediately, to connect the internship, to connect socially. Maybe there's someone in the hospital family. Not to be smuggled into someone else's book. There's no reason. Thirdly, the Committee for Audit, drawn up by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, here I propose the establishment of a joint commission, will do its job to include representatives of the international community in order to protect the fundamental human rights of the people who have to, who have the rulings of the BH courts. I propose that this committee, when I have said to the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives, I propose that Mr Kebo be a minister, a committee composed of the Council of Ministers, should be a minimum deputy minister and ministers appropriate. You certainly do. It would be good if the foreign minister, whoever it is, were presently found there and several MPs. So let's show that we're taking care of dignity, because we're not just taking care of these 158 people. We take care of ourselves, we take care of this country. Because this is how this will become a country when Liberia becomes a European state. And I'm afraid that's a long time to wait. - Fourth conclusion. Representatives of the international community are urged, this parliament is calling on representatives of the international community to join the process in order to preserve the dignity of domestic and international institutions, human rights guaranteed by European and UN standards. I - The fifth conclusion - within 15 days, the Council of Ministers will report to Parliament on the implementation of these conclusions. I wouldn't get into a lot of things that should have been done. I'm skipping all this together, Mr. Minister. I'm jumping, I'm jumping. I'm missing a lot of things. And I'm changing what I'm skipping for these conclusions. And without these conclusions, I will no longer skip anything, even who is directly responsible for this and why and the role of the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers and all. Then we'll be what the conflicted side says with institutions that don't do their jobs. So I'm skipping all of this. In exchange for these five conclusions. I think these are correct enough, if you can accept them, Mr. Kebo, paraphrasing, taking them out as yours, I'll be even more pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21817	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. I would ask that these conclusions be in writing yes. Just a minute, please. So the conclusions in writing that we have so that we can make a statement about them when the time comes. 15 The Wrong Allegation, Dr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21818	Thank you. Here's to talking to my other Lagumdji. He said they told him at the UN that after the trial was carried out that these people would be returned. So it's not really a guilty allegation, it's a complement to what we did in the commission, because from, you may not know, and that's what we found in the commission for human rights, that a letter from the OHR went away, unfortunately to the court in which they said it wasn't going to be a judicial dispute and thus made it impossible for the basic human right to a fair and fair trial. This is all I wanted to say that I realized what kind of hell people were in. Now something's going to happen, something's going to change in their favor, and we can do a lot today. But it's really inadmissible, and before that letter, some people were able to win means a court dispute in which they were brought back to work and no one respected it. So this fits what Mr. Lagumdžija was saying, which is that maybe the people in the UN at the Security Council don't know about that kind of thing, because we hear it here. We're hiding because of some institutions in the international community, we hear, we're hiding something, instead of raising a strong voice so they say -- people you're looking for are the international norm and it has to be binding for anyone in this country. And the one who's helping us today in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, that's what might have been important to say, because here people are disabled means, disabled and judicial protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21819	He's out of line, but he's useful. The word has a colleague, Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21820	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of the highly respected House, distinguished ministers and other guests, I feel that my smallness may contribute somewhat to this very complex and complex matter. In most cases, I would agree with the discussions of my distinguished representatives, my colleagues. As an MP, I really do support what the Council of Ministers did, indeed perhaps with a delay, but particularly the resolute Minister, Mr Keb, because he proved to be a very responsible minister and went to those people who were violated by human rights and to talk directly to them about the activities undertaken so far from his resolution ministry and the Council of Ministers. I appreciate it as a new MP and what this esteemed House has done in the past year and has obliged representatives of the executive government, or the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to resolve this very complex issue, as Mr. Chairman said. Certain things that have triggered here with initiatives and conclusions and what has been introduced to us by the resolution minister, which makes the Council of Ministers within its jurisdiction and this esteemed House and its Human Rights Committee, I think it is good for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to feel that every one of their responsibilities in the protection of constitutional and human rights, including this esteemed House, is doing its part. I think a very good question and a good idea that it really is not just a 16 legal issue, but a political one and I think it is a good idea for Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's MP to make one, together with the Council of Ministers, a joint committee that will make further efforts to resolve this complex issue and inform the public. In order to avoid being constantly informed by the Council of Ministers or the RES as executive bodies, and that the House always commits something, I think that the responsibility of this home is appreciated, as a legislative body, and that together it should share that responsibility. I must say something as a man by my profession. I, distinguished colleagues, appreciate their struggle for human rights and legality and constitution, and we must be realistic in which this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina encountered the situation when it was a UN mission. This means that we, by means of the Framework Peace Agreement, have transferred our own, our part of competence to international factors. And I need to be respected, realistic that these international factors have done both good things and made mistakes, as is happening now. I'm very impressed by the elaborated co-workers and knowledge of the European Convention, but here we have one situation that truly no one can presuppose innocence that no one can find guilty until a judicial verdict is convicted. And we have for some of those de-certified police officers as well as from the Federation and the Republika Srpska and the powerful verdicts that have not found that there is no guilt from the point of view of the court. However, we need to be realistic that the execution of these judgments is practically very difficult and we need to understand really the role of the Council of Ministers, the Resolute Ministry and this esteemed home that we cannot just delegate one body of the Council, that Council of Security of the UN and its organs that we are trying, perhaps a little carelessly that we are trying to decertify. I listened very closely that they still have the OHR's position in office and I appreciate the maturity of the MPs and the Council of Ministers that we want to solve this problem, to help. But I think that these efforts, as told by the resolution minister, have also told the Council of Ministers that they are a good trace of the resolution of this issue and I think that this joint committee of this esteemed home and this and the pressures and the NGOs and our leaders from this Parliament can contribute to finding the right solution. And I mean, I have to say, more than ever, it's a very reasonable idea to consider that the Council of Ministers, as an authorised promoter, or at the conclusion of this esteemed home, is to consider, if we are not already able to carry out a review of decisions on decertified police officers, that the idea of a possible protection of the existential issue of these people to the final exacerbation of this potential fund is better considered. It is also the obligation of all institutions to divide the government. The courts have spoken, this is a political and legal issue. So everyone has to share the role. I think it's a good idea for these people not to be, if they can't be difficult to exercise their rights to protect human rights and to be realistic, we still need to be realistic, we have made decisions here where we have, our powers, both to international organisations and courts and to The Hague and to the International Permanent Criminal Court, and this is what we need to abide by and those documents that we have signed. We can't, if we sign something and transfer jurisdiction, but we can't do it now so we can get them back in charge. I think the idea is very good and what Parliament and the Council of Ministers are doing now are citizens and those officers who are really affected by this decertification to feel that its authorities, as they have constitutional obligation to do, are in a very real, reasonable and correct way. That means politics is a matter of real, but not an ideal thing and that our authorities would make some decisions that would be contrary to international factors and then have a lot more damage than the benefits of both our state authorities and these decertified police officers. But I repeat, this country is obliged to 17 existentially provide and may have the status of some, suspension status and existentially provide these people. I apologize, but I considered it necessary, since this is a burning, very complex difficult question. There is no real solution ideal, but I felt that my one thought could also contribute to this esteemed home making some quality decision along with...other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21821	I would like to thank my colleague Sipović. The word was asked for by Mr. Belkič. Replica Sejo Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21822	I'm sorry. We are aware of the fact that we are a country of limited political and economic sovereignty and that is not the problem. The idea is that Bosnia and Herzegovina today decides, through the House of Representatives, to go to check the police decertification process. That's below 1. This does not make it impossible for the Council of Ministers to refer the note to the Security Council and ask for agreement on this procedure. As is International Law and Annex X of the Dayton Agreement. So, without waiting for this process before the Security Council, we allow ourselves freedom, conditionally speaking, expecting a favourable solution from the Security Council to form a mixed committee that will simply prepare a process to check for decertified police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's the most important thing. In addition to these normal social measures, solving the simple life issues of de-certified police officers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21823	Thank you, Dr. President. I'm going to have My colleague Belkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21824	Here, speaking on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I have no intention of opening up here a practical bidding with understanding of respect for human rights, solidarity with police officers etc. reminding you that all of us sitting here in Parliament have been involved, either through membership in various committees, or by performing certain functions, or as MPs in this House. So there's no need to move on about it. Me and the Club if we support a series of conclusions presented here, such as the formation of commissions, the involvement of international representatives, such as the provision of some social, social and material rights, etc. Interested, before we plead, so we are absolutely committed to helping people, but we do not want to be part of the false promises that these people kept getting and falling into greater and greater disappointments. I'm a witness to that, but it doesn't matter. So, I would like to, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, I would like to, before we go to a decision-making and voting on a series of these proposals here, especially those concerning material compensation, rights, etc. Let's hear you say whether the Council of Ministers can take it and realize it, together with the dreams in Parliament. Not to be, I say, part of giving and giving false hopes to these people again. 18 So we absolutely support these Sead everything you have proposed both Mr. Lagumdžija and the Joint Commission and what Mr. Kebo was talking about, but let us now have official and official confirmation that this is possible through the procedure even today when it is concluded that it is certain. So there won't be, we'll see, a budget, passed, unproposed, etc. Entities, working status. So today we really send a serious message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21825	I thank my colleague Belkić for his helpful suggestions. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Can we have an answer? This is what counterpart Belkić is asked about in order to be at the height of the task and decisions and conclusions. Whether our conclusions have material coverage or do not have what is very important so that we can fulfill what we require. So I would like to ask, here is Minister Marić, Minister of Finance and Treasury to tell us if this conclusion is realistic and feasible, which would seem to be of the utmost interest to these people, or someone from the ministry. Is there an answer to that? So we have no response from the Council of Ministers. Yeah. Here you go. I would beg Dr. Lagumdžija's conclusions in writing to win, so we'll bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21826	I must say, honourable MPs, that I speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers, not on my own behalf. And therefore, I am obliged to defend the views that the Council has formulated in its 17 January session. And there's no Mr. Chairman or anyone here that we can take these duties. I can only say that that conclusion should be found in a session that will take place in a day or two. As I also spoke to de-certified police officers and said that I could not assume the obligations of the executive authority, such as the Council of Ministers can do on the proposal of one, two or three ministers or another member. Therefore, I ask that this proposal, which has been formulated today, be the obligation that during this week, I think that today we have the Council of Ministers at 12 o'clock, to be formulated in the procedures that we have in the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance must give its opinion on every kind of separation, because it is simply the opposite of the Budget Use Act. Here I am asking that we do so today at the Council of Ministers' meeting during the session, or the next day, to show the part relating to financial separations. All this other stuff that Mr. Lagumdžija was saying, is it very correct proposals, etc., but I can't accept them, or not accept them at the Council of Ministers. I can respect them personally. Everything that Parliament has ordered the Council of Ministers will be carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So, this part of the money, please don't take any of those people's obligations that we can or can't do. Let the Council of Ministers presently hold this 19th session in its explicit position, with the agreement and opinion of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance, to present to this Parliament either during today's session or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21827	Thank you. Can we just have a little bit of demand to bring an end to it? Of course we said a lot of things. So, yes, we'll vote of course, so we can finish. And it would be good for them to meet before the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers as responsible of the Council of Ministers says you know we can accept this conclusion, it's real, it's in line with this, it's in line with that. There are conclusions that can't, but to get feedback, but to know how this process can end in the interest of these people whose fates and financial and working fates are at stake. But in any case, I would like to thank all MPs who have led a mature debate and aware of the problems, as well as the Council of Ministers and Ministers. And counterpart Belkić is quite right when he says the worst thing is to warm up false hope for people if it cannot be realized. I'd like to ask if there's anyone else to report for the hearing. Adem Huskić, and his colleague Sipović. Is that a false allegation, a replica? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21828	The Honorable Chairman, I have been very specific in my discussion that I am representing myself to create a joint commission on finding this problem. But I did not suggest that this commission had the power to go to audit, namely to abolish and modify the decisions of the Security Council's competent authority because we were clearly told by the Honorable Minister that we do not have that mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21829	But it doesn't. A kolega of Sipović, but it doesn't say in the conclusion of Dr. Lagums. Here's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21830	Dear fellow Gligorić said
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21831	Okay, but here are the concrete conclusions. We've adopted conclusions, we've narrowed our conclusions to SDP and Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21832	Okay. But all in the background of a respected colleague, Belkić, is to give real conclusions and suggestions that are realistically conductive, not that we are now giving false hope. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21833	Okay. I get it. Here you go. Adem Huskić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21834	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to get attached in some way to what Mr. Belkić said and bring out a dilemma publicly to say and understand it, having understanding of everything that my colleagues said, I myself fear in some way that we bring financial obligations here, to create financial obligations according to this, in a way that we vote here according to any category of people. Of course, given the understanding of the state of these police officers, they are least likely to blame for the situation in which they were found, but given that we still have a category of citizens' society that might be bound by this decision and I'm afraid we're not opening a process that we won't be able to control afterwards. And that's why I suggest that today we don't jump to conclusions, but that people, that we leave them time to consider all possible consequences and then establish the proposal and that we plead afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21835	Thank you. If I can just help out a little bit. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21836	Of course I accept these proposals as a function of protecting fundamental human rights. This is not a lonely example of human rights violations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are witnesses of the daily violation of rights, and I would not like to talk about it now. Taxing, but worrying is one fact that is almost equal to this, which is a violation of human rights when they are in the customs office and when it comes to the people who worked at the Taxation Authority, that is, in the customs administrations of the entity. There's a very large number of people out there without a job. In an unlawful anti-indemnity way, without the possibility of appeal, therefore without the possibility of that fundamental human right that every man has the right to file a complaint for a decision. And of course, this parliament will face that fact in due course. As well as with this problem. We probably didn't respond to this problem in time. Absolutely not. What's been going on for three years? Is that the expression of our surrender when it comes to international organisations? I think so. They are gods, we have never been able to object when they bring, even if their small officials have come from some countries. We were unable to counter injustice to the obvious and violation of human rights. So this isn't a lonely case. We will face more and more cases like this in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21837	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. Who's still answering for the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have one little suggestion, of course, that I'm not going out for a pay phone. These five conclusions are acceptable to me, I think, to the Council of Ministers, with the second conclusion of Dr Lagumdžija, I propose that it be – the Council of the Minsitars is tasked to consider the possibility of from the 2006 budget and budget reserves. 21 So, the possibility of looking for a legal option, I guess for those reasons not to hire, and to get into some... So, to consider the possibility that from Budget and budget reserves. And if we say explicitly -- it is the Council of Minions' responsibility that from the 2006 budget, or from the budget reserves, and I can't come up with that exactly for the reasons you've been talking about. So to consider the possibility, we're in charge, but to inform us it's this one, because that's the conclusion of this 5. So, let's get past it, so we don't turn out to be giving and not being able to conclude it. We are aware that this should be resolved either from the budget or from the budget reserves or from entities. And this is a good conclusion, with him being only to consider the possibility, and not to be in charge of the Council of Ministers, so as not to be committed. Because if they could give us an answer, they would answer us now. Here, that's my suggestion if you can. If he can't, I'll vote in this class. And it seems to me that we would solve these dilemmas of colleagues who were exporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21838	Mr. Chairman, beware of what they say, they are like this to you; we have told them we command you to consider or do it, it comes to the same. They're also treating one form of conclusion, so that's what I mean, what they say comes to him on the same. But in order to avoid misunderstandings, I think the Council of Ministers in this year should now commit that, now that it has taken over the case, here since January of the month, they will take the obligation to deal with it in a transitional period while the entities – the one from earlier that will solve with the entities. But if the Council of Ministers should also be in charge, so please, let them separate 150,000 marks every month.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21839	Okay, clear. I'm withdrawing my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21840	Here's my conclusion as a commitment that since January 1st they have an obligation to take the obligation to make it up to these people to deal with the elemental problems until they solve it with entities. That which the judgment will prove, how it will go afterwards, then. But there's no reason not to. Now, I suggest a paraphrasing conclusion in this sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21841	I'm withdrawing the proposal. I said the conclusions are acceptable to me. The Council of Ministers will certainly be manifested. We've closed the debate, please. We have the conclusions from the 1st to the 5th Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, you have them on the table. Is there a need to read them? But for a stenogram, there's one. The Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to move immediately to the conclusion of the 59th session of the 29th session. 06. 2005. 22. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to provide funds from the Budget for 2006, or budget reserve funds to address social and labour issues that are in line with the status of suspended officials, while entity authorities do not implement obligations towards people until the audit has been completed. 3. The review committee, drawn up by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, will do its job until representatives of the international community are included in order to protect the fundamental human rights of people who have BiH courts. 4. Representatives of the international community are called on to engage in this process in order to preserve the dignity of domestic and international institutions and human rights guaranteed by European standards and below 5. Within 15 days, the Council of Ministers will inform Parliament of the implementation of these conclusions. Prepare to vote [[Sead Avdic reacts]] Please, Sejo, we've finished the debate. Please draw your conclusions in writing, we'll vote. The debate is closed. Don't open it. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21843	Well, Mr. Chairman, that's a suggestion of conclusions, it doesn't require that they can't be changed, that they can't be affected. Come on, guys, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21844	I don't mind, and I asked him to change, so I withdrew my proposal. It wasn't, and I concluded the debate. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21845	How's that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21846	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21847	Where's that? Please don't, where is it? Let's get one conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21848	You want one at a time. Please, nice. Prepare to vote. Conclusion one, vote now. 23 Breaks five minutes to split. Don't leave the bench in five minutes for the service to share conclusions. Here, Dr. Lagumdžija as a proposer of these conclusions, Minsitare Kebo, so here's my smallness, we exchanged our vision and realized that the conclusion of 1st and 3rd is not in collegiation. That the conclusion of the 1st concerns the Council of Ministers' Commission, in accordance with our conclusions, and 3rd to this parliamentary commission and the Council of Ministers' Commission, which should take care of what is the subject of this conclusion. We have concluded the debate and, please, it is required to vote individually on the conclusions. I ask the service to take care of the expedition, to help each other, because three can always share materials, not one share, but five observe. So you got on your desks conclusions and a new conclusion in the written form of Dr. Sead Avdić. We'll get to the bottom of this. Can I ask Dr. Crescent? Sead Avdić, can we agree – you were the only one who asked for a single vote on the conclusions. This is a package of conclusions, and we'll get to the bottom of your conclusion. So it's not a problem. Comrade Sipović, if you're looking for her individually, there's just no further discussion. What a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21849	If MP Lagumdžija changes after consulting Mr. Resord Minister Keba, he only corrects this third position – that the review committee says, no, but the review committee, and I argued the reasons. So, they're going to follow up on the entire review course, but if their decisions weren't for those reasons that I said they wouldn't be irritated. Only if he can track the audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21850	Well, please, I understand. Here we ask Dr. Lagumdžija, I think that's exactly what we're talking about. dr Laagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21851	Please don't make any unnecessary confusion. Let's make a little effort, get out of this. The essence of my first. The conclusion is that the Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers and immediately moves on to the realization of the conclusions, I remind you. I remind you, the conclusion says, buddy, I think I'll explain better than you. To see, therefore, the first conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Ministers to immediately move on to the realization of the 59th session's conclusions. Let me remind you, the first conclusion of the 59th session is that the Council of Ministers is forming a commission, its own commission, which will go from case to case and audit. The conclusion, Seade, the one you're proposing, is practically incorporated into that old conclusion. I agree that this conclusion of yours, conditionally speaking, would explain the first conclusion. 24 So first we need to do a review of 158 cases. This should be done by the Council of the Minstar in line with the conclusion of June of the month, which will do the whole job etc. Conclusion number three, please, so you can't. I have it in front of me on June 29th, 2005. The conclusion is, I remind you, these are our conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21852	It's all right. Clearly absolutely. There's no need. Let's get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21853	I didn't repeat our conclusions. So, it forms, the Council of Ministers has an obligation to go as far as tomorrow from 158 cases, one, two, three, to make a scale with court rulings and all of this, to contact the Security Council, to withdraw that statement, etc. etc. And it's practically done according to what Dr. Avdić wrote here. The third conclusion is, practically, the commission is drawn up, specifically, by the Minister of Human Rights, the Minister of Security and the Minister of Justice. And four or six members of Parliament. It is a committee of 7 or 9 people who will virtually commit before this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to follow all this together and eventually come out in 15 days with a new conclusion, etc. That is, conditionally speaking, if it makes you feel any better, it can be called a conclusion-monitoring committee. Here, the Committee for the Monitoring of Parliament's Conclusions, if you will. So, the Commission for the Monitoring of Conclusions on this matter, composed of three ministers and six members of this House. And the Council of Ministers, we don't need us, doesn't need a colleague Gligorić tomorrow, or a colleague of Sopta to sit down and go through 158 cases. That's what the commission's gonna do and let us know who's on that committee, that's it. Don't you agree, Ružo? I think we're close to a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21854	Please, on the composition of the commission, it's important that we say that we should form, we'll talk about the composition of the commission later. But this is the conclusion that says – so – the Commission for the Monitoring of the Conclusions of this Parliament, drawn up by the Council of Ministers of the Parliamentary Assembly, will do its job until the involvement of representatives of the international community. Everything stays the same. And I think this is exactly an explanation. And I'd like to ask that we don't have any further discussion. Here you go, Miloš Jovanović, Dr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21855	I have to, really, to clear up this conclusion number two to vote. Is it possible that out of these 158 people no one is to blame? I mean, I say, in fact, they provide resources for all 158 of the people. And what if one of them is proven guilty? That's it for me. How do we know which ones aren't guilty?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21856	Let's just hear it for a second. You're a liar. We'll find a solution. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21857	So, the thing is that 700 people are de-decretified, close to 800 people. Of those nearly 800 of them, 158 received a judicial verdict that turned out to have been convicted without 25. This applies to these people who have complained, who have court rulings. We are practically asking them to take over from the reserve as of January 1st, etc. that it is given, until their status is resolved in entities, that they have virtually been suspended, because our judicial authorities said they were clean. And get back to work. So this applies only to these, Miloše, and otherwise to one such comes four who are guilty. [[someone talking from the scene, you can't hear]] All right, fine. No problem. Of course, so those who are, that applies. Right, Mr. Kebo, correct me if I'm wrong, please. That applies to those 157 people.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21859	He doesn't understand, he didn't turn himself in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21860	This applies to these 157 people. Okay, okay. We got it all figured out. Avdić, and his colleague Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21862	I am merely suggesting that we would not be misunderstood, and even interpreted by some unwitting people, I propose attitude 3. It means that it is as follows, there is a slight correction: - the review committee, composed of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the place of this text - will do its job to include - but will call and include representatives of the international community to protect the fundamental human rights of people who have the judgments of the bha courts. So, call and turn it on. If he wants to, people, what's wrong with you? Call and, where appropriate, include representatives of the international community, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21863	You have the fourth attitude that you have. He'll work here, and in the fourth he'll call. That means if these guys don't respond, they can't even work, what you're suggesting. I think this is good, both third and fourth. They'll work, but they'll call.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21864	It's unnecessary, people, to outplay. Judy, there is a requirement of formal law that the Security Council must give its consent to this process. And this formulation we avoid any legal simple controversy etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21865	Sejo, no one cares, especially this House to avoid any international convention. We're looking for a moduso to help people with respect. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21866	Then this article is unnecessary three, then only Article 4 more.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21867	Okay. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid we've made some mistakes here in the formulation. We cannot say that we are the Parliamentary Assembly, we are the House of Representatives. Because we're not doing this at the plenary session. So wherever the Parliamentary Assembly appears, it needs the PSBiH House of Representatives. If this is going to work for the House of People, let it work, but then we'll come to agree. You know, we can suggest conclusions on our behalf and commission on our own behalf. It means House of Representatives. And here we say -- the review committee composed of the Council of Ministers and, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will do their job to include representatives of the international community, in order to protect the fundamental human rights of people who have convictions -- not the bh's of courts, but the courts of BiH. That's right. Well, that would be, then, technical repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21869	Okay, this can go, Zlatko. Here you go, Dr. Lagbumdžija, then Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21870	My kolegica Ljiljo, you're absolutely right. I have already considered what Mr. Sipović suggested, so we have already said this third is called a review committee. That is, therefore, our commission, this home and the Council of the Minsitors, which will monitor the revision defined in point 1 of our conclusions. And we will even invite representatives of the international community to join in. But they need to get involved in that commission that audits itself. And that is why, Mr Avdić, this third and fourth, when you accept this commission from point 3 as someone composed of the largest two institutions – the BiH executive and legislative authorities, who should oversee this whole process, then we also call on representatives of the international community to join. And especially by calling them and we'll do our job even if they don't get involved, there is, and we invite them to come, but we'll ask our institutions to do their job. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21871	Okay. He's a friend of the Potočnik. I'm bringing an end to the debate. We'll go to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21872	I'm asked one question here, or one dilemma if the de-certified officers are joined at entity level, then let them ask the entity. And if they're united at the state level, then let them ask the state. I think so. Human rights are at the level of the state, if they are at the level of the state, then associations must be at the level of the state, not at the level of the entity. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21873	Please, just don't let us get into replicas. My colleague Bešlagić, we've got it all figured out. Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21874	...and get a request from both associations. Therefore, he came as a request from the Republika Srpska and the Federation, and we were happy to do so. Therefore, they have put it together as a request and we ask that it be adopted that this Parliament is in fact considering the request of those who have complained to this Parliament and where the commission has considered this. I mean, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21875	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? He's not answering. Here you go. Mrs. Mara Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21876	I just want to go by article 2 here, which is why you'd stand out specifically for the Council of Ministers to allocate funds from the 2006 budget to dessertd police officers? Which is why we would single it out, because we know that in this country so many people are out of work on a variety of grounds that should help that social and other species. There are competent institutions that are tasked with acting on the basis of certain decisions and therefore, I am not for this to be specifically set out at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21877	Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and I'm not gonna let the debate open any further. Thank you. all who have conducted constructive discussions appropriate to the problem that exists. I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Kebi, who has expressed his own position and what the Council of Minsiter's position is. Let's go, so you asked for an individual vote. Prepare to vote on Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's first conclusion, and I'll read it, so if you have it. 1. The Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Council of Ministers to move immediately to the conclusion of the 59th session of the 29th session. Six. 2005. 28 Prepare to vote. The House of Representatives, yes, where the Parliamentary Assembly is the House of Representatives. So just a little bit, we'll do it again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 35 votes for, no one against, one abstention, so we adopted Mr. Lagumdžija's first conclusion. We move to a second conclusion -- it is up to the Council of Ministers to provide funds from the 2006 budget or budget reserve funds to address social and labour issues that are in line with the status of suspended officials, while entity authorities do not implement obligations towards people until the audit process is completed. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 33, 1 versus, 1 abstention. I realize we've adopted another conclusion. We move to the third conclusion, which is the Commission to follow the conclusions of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, drawn up by the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, will do its job to include representatives of the international community in order to protect the fundamental human rights of the people who have the judgments of the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 34 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we also adopted a third conclusion. We move to the fourth conclusion, which reads, is that representatives of the international community are urged to join this process to preserve the dignity of domestic and international institutions and human rights guaranteed by European and UN standards. Prepare to vote. Vote now - 35 against no one, 1 abstention. I'm realizing the number four conclusion has been accepted. We move to a statement on conclusion number five Within 15 days, the Council of Ministers will report to Parliament's House of Representatives on the implementation of these conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 33 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we've adopted the fifth conclusion. 29 We have a written conclusion, Dr. Sead Avdić, who is incorporating this one. I pray that if there is, of course I don't mind giving him a statement, but I think we've covered this with these conclusions. Do you insist we vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21878	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21879	But it's already covered. I beg you, do you insist we vote? No, I don't. It would be the opposite of what we're a little bit, what we've concluded. Don't insist. Thank you for making a great contribution to adopt these conclusions. I'm grateful to you. I wasn't deliberately wrong in the order, but this was a package of conclusions and I did, and I thought it would solve the problem. Thank you. That's what we've come up with, thanks to Mr. Keba, thank you to all of you who participated in the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives was sent to you by fax on Thursday, January 26th of this year. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. E has Mr. Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21880	Your Honor, I have a general suggestion, and that is, this has no form of record. This has a form of record. Whether MPs are discussing the agenda on the agenda points, giving rise to conflicting views that MPs would have a responsibility to this House and to themselves and voters and to their political parties and that their discussions would be more concrete, I would suggest that each MP's discussions on each item of the agenda be reduced in a sentence as to what he discussed. Because then all they list are the debaters, the debaters, and there are both conflicting and certain attitudes. In this way, I think that would lead to the responsibility of every MP, faster and more efficient work by Parliament, and the third would be seen by which certain MPs and which political parties, which are participating in this House, stand for certain views. Please, that's what we have to do to the public. I know he has a stenogram. The stenogram is not available to everyone and I believe that this suggestion is one in the next, for the next period to be considered, the College, the Honorable College, to consider only in one sentence, or two sentences as discussed by the MP. I, in this way, think we're going to give affirmation to certain representatives... or maybe some MPs are ashamed, or they're going to have a criticism of why they've made certain views about certain things. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21881	I thank my colleague. There's more. I've interrupted you. I didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21882	That's it. Not the broad discussion, not the writing, because it has a stenogram, but in one sentence, two why one club, party or individual MP stands for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21883	Thank you. It's a little out of the question, we're discussing adopting the agenda, but here's your suggestion, that suggestion. Okay. Would you please have any objections specifically to the record? There's no one here. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 34, no one against, no one abstention. I understand that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 72nd session of the House of Representatives. Before I cross the second, on the third item of the agenda, I was given notice at the request of the Party for BiH that Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović is justified for passionate reasons absent and I ask the Service to establish that, for health reasons, Dušanka Majkić too. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. MPs' questions and answers at last session, as you know we didn't have this item on the agenda. I'll remind you how we got the answers from 71 to this session. The answers were therefore received by Nikola Špirić, Mirsad Ćeman and Selim Bešlagić on questions asked by the Council of Ministers at the 65th session, Vinko Zorić, asked the Council of Ministers at the 69th session. Any comments on the answers? I can say for myself that I'm not happy with the answer. Any further comments? There isn't. Who's answering to ask a parliamentary question? Bešlagić, Moranjkić, Belkić, Ćeman, Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21884	Dear colleagues, I make one appointment, colleague, apologize, dear colleagues and respected colleagues, I think it's the right thing to do. Let me ask you a question here, this is about former JNA pensioners in '91. In fact, they were already pensioners, which are 31 – when will the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina implement its obligation on the basis of the signing of the concession agreement, which concerns the adoption of the necessary legislation, the implementation of the provisions of Annex E of the Agreement, which provides that the Pension and Property Insurance Office shall pay pensioners, former JNA insurance companies an unpaid part of the pension of 50% from the date of entry into force of the Agreement on Sucession with corresponding increases and legal interest, and in the future at a full amount of 100% as is paid to all other pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'm looking for an answer in writing by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. There's an explanation here. I wouldn't read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21885	Thank you. A colleague, Moranjkić, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21886	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have more questions. I'll get them soon. - Can the Consulate in Milan, this is according to the Council of Ministers, get an operational lawyer who knows the Italian language, because it is the same great brake in performing a function of better economic integration between Italy and this country? It's a consul's suggestion in Milan a few days ago in a consulate conversation. Secondly, you know that a few months ago I asked the question of the sky over Bosnia and Herzegovina and the famous radar that walked from runway to America and back. I ask – will the radar come, or will the money come back, when and who is responsible for this? Third, who in this country and under what legal regulations forms and imposes species and amounts of individuals under the supposed signs of necessary payments in the registration of a vehicle, because there are many and indifferences and great rebellion among citizens? I wouldn't speak for further reasons. It's written. Four - why does our country not lead against, introduce against the measures of the states in our environment when it comes to fees for many what? This is particularly felt by our athletes who when entering or passing through neighbouring countries pay huge taxes, and our country does not take it in return. Those funds could be used for that purpose and I'm interested in why they don't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21887	Thank you. My colleague, Ćeman, asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21888	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I often ask the question, actually state the reason. And so this time the citizens are asking, I'm just articulating this home. Last time, since it was agreed not to ask parliamentary questions, I did it in writing and I gave it to professional services, but I want it to be tied up to this session as a sort of formal question set at this session. 32 We have dealt with matters of the living; here are the people who have problems with their working legal status. But Bosnia and Herzegovina has suffered such turbulence in recent years that many living in Bosnia and Herzegovina live around the world today and many of them, unfortunately living people experience their physical end and die abroad. But only then, among other things, are the problems of the living with such dead, as many of them express their desire, before they died, expressed their desire to be buried in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They say they are terribly complicated procedures and it seems that all happiness to all of us who have not had problems of this kind, that they are terribly complicated procedures for bodies outside, so abroad the dead citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be transferred and decently buried in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question, therefore, has already been asked in writing, but here I update it again, or again point to one. Why are procedures so complicated? Can it be simplified that people in such situations simply do not have, among other things, a problem of this kind? To make things worse, they're reportedly announced and so to say the corrections of the procedure, but worse. In this context, people mention that some, even to us neighbouring countries, have very simple procedures about this and of course that have protected everything that is, when it comes to the sea from the aspect of the state, etc. Protect. A good example, a positive example is cited as an example of the Republic of Croatia. So this is also an initiative, but also a question -- why is that? Can it be fixed? In what way? And to really meet people in this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21889	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, I just have to remind you briefly of the Hadžić case in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the man who was sentenced to a long-standing prison sentence finds him consistent and sues before the Court of Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me cut it short. So in Strasbourg before the Court of Human Rights on a proposal from the defendant, Bosnia and Herzegovina, there was a settlement, i.e. a settlement with Mr Hadžić and the Court of Human Rights has accepted such a settlement. The deal was that Bosnia and Herzegovina, appointed to pay 9.5,000 euros and that man would mean moving from this classical prison to a hospital prison, in fact, means a hospital-type prison facility for these psychiatric cases. That verdict means that, in fact, a settlement that became a verdict, because the Court accepted that settlement. The deal was reached on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers, a prosecutor, as acting as an agent before the Court of Human Rights by means of a party that has been sued. The decision is not respected by Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposals, and we will, realistically, already have problems in this matter, because we have proposed a settlement that provides for a stay in such an institution that does not exist in this country. So we made a promise in advance why we don't have conditions. Secondly, we are not even a cash amount within the prescribed deadline, as the Court has made a decision means that it will be paid, a foreign deal has been made and I am asking the Council of Ministers – in what way does it respond to the obligations that he himself has proposed in the settlement and in what way will Bosnia and Herzegovina's face actually be preserved, because we have become in a position to disrespect the Court of Human Rights? Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21890	Thank you. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21891	It's a matter for the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education entered into force in July 2003. Article 56 of this law reads - The supervision of the application of this law will be carried out by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and the competent educational authorities are responsible for the implementation and monitoring of this law. Each under his jurisdiction. Question – Are activities or responsibilities carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Article of law and what are the results of the implementation of this law? I'm looking for written information.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21892	Thank you. A colleague of Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21893	Thank you. I'm going to ask two questions to the Council of Ministers which are essentially a renewal of the issues I asked at the 34th session and at the 51st session of this house. In 2004 as early as the fourth month, the house reached its conclusion, which obliged the Council of Ministers to propose a Restitution Act within three months. It is known that we still have formally in the process of two proposals for the 2004 Restitution Act that are not spoken of today. As a result, a conclusion was reached by the House, which obliged the Council of Ministers to come out in 2004 within three months with some proposal for a restitution law. I remind you these are Mr. Špirić's bill proposals and mine. After that, a certain state Committee on Restitution was formed and I referred a question to the Council of Ministers a year and a half ago – what is the mandate of this state commission and when will the Council of Ministers make a proposal for a law on restitution? Unfortunately, that answer has nothing to do with it. You see, at the same session, I also asked for a conclusion and asked the Council of Ministers to answer the following questions -- on what basis has property been returned so far? We are witnessing that in some way so far there has been a return of nationalized property. The second question is to any institution, and individuals were returned the property and, of course, on what basis was the property returned, according to which law and what property was it? Here are a year and nine months after these conclusions and questions have been made, I am re-opening the question of the Council of Ministers - can you, and if it can, when the Council of Ministers will inform this House about these important issues in order to open the issue and speed up the actual adoption of this law on restitution? Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21894	I thank my colleague Križanović. Izet Hadžić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21895	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to ask questions, and I'd turn it into an initiative. The question would be – did the Council of Ministers consider the effects of the Free Trade Treaty? If he hadn't turned it into an initiative, this parliament would be considering the effects of the Treaty in the coming period, or in the first quarter of this year. And the argument only from the brand of oil and petroleum imports many claim that this country loses more than 200 million in this contract, and we know that neighbouring importing countries are like this to say goods. So there would be an initiative to consider this point at Parliament in the next 60 days, the Commission to Parliament, and to prepare the Council of Ministers, or to consider delivering it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21896	Thank you. A colleague, Sipović, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21897	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask one question to the public, and this esteemed home and MPs, the Council of Ministers, are all familiar with the initiative of international factors. In the past, the initiative has been concrete. I will only have two proposals, i.e. two initiatives, i.e. two issues of Parliament. The Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries. 1. To what stage of the Law on Sport at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina we are fully aware that according to the Constitutional Definition that there is, that sport and culture are at the level of canton in the Federation and at the level of entity and in Republika Srpska at the level of the entity. But what about the status of athletes representing international, internationally, in the Olympic games, athletes who win medals in the name of what is called, in a dignified way presenting Bosnia and Herzegovina? I come from this kind of Karate Alliance of BiH sport, which is from karate sports as one of the most professional sports that has presented this country in a dignified way and we consider ourselves a great force in European and world medal winners. Please, there are more sports like this. Dear colleagues, it costs us nothing materially, if we want the affirmation of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we want integration processes and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we need one basic roof and law for this top sport. I'm not against the fact that these entity laws and these cantonal laws remain, because every local community has more levels to raise funds. I think it is really questionable to say for our roof institution, the Olympic Committee of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a component of the International Olympic Committee that he does not know, a respected minister, can tell us, is not included in the budget for the financing of certain elementary things. What I'm saying is that many professional alliances and all entities, both entities, including the Olympic Committee, were preparing and having a conversation with the resolution ministry. The initiative of 35 resolute ministers, respected Professor Halilović, because it is his ministry of civil affairs that until the next session, i.e. I am asking us a question - what stage did the draft of this law and shifts take place in that segment? That would be one question, and the details of the reasons, since the honourable MP Ćeman said the reasons are very simple. If we want healthy youth, healthy prosperity, then at least it costs us to force sport at all levels and local and state level and to present and cultivate youth full of health and spirit, which costs us the least. It costs us the most when we have criminality, when we were discussing security here in one segment, a little greater crime, a little delinquency. In all aspects, we have vices of various drugs and stuff. So sport is the cheapest health, and we will probably find one day and the Ministry of Health at BiH level. He is, medicine is very expensive. That's one question and an initiative - to assign the Ministry of Civil Affairs resolutely
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21898	My colleagues insist on asking a specific question? ISipović not going to interrupt you on purpose, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21899	Please ask a question, no, not a question – What about the law that is in the procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21900	Great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21901	And yet another question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21902	Come on. Please, let's listen to a colleague. What's the second question?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21903	The second question is, please, we have talked here and discussed a certain matter, and I am also fully aware of the question of many colleagues, lawyers, and I am a Federation lawyer, and even from Republika Srpska, the idea exists that there are entity laws of the Republic of Srspka and laws on the Federation's lawyer. Please, we are putting ourselves in a position to have defenders, representatives at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that there is a need to pass a roof law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina on law-abiding entity laws and organisations of legal chambers at the level of entities, and with us at the level of regions, regional chambers and other and international entities. For what reason?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21904	Just a question please. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21905	The question is – because directly lawyers influence the protection of human rights by giving defence, representing against all levels of government, i.e. courts and administrative authorities, and also the state court. And to open certain processes in this way. The question is – at what stage will the Ministry of RES, I have information, but when will the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Authorised Proposer of the Council of Ministers of Law which I have in principle be prepared, when will they submit to the parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21906	I thank you all, but I'm asking you all to deliver your questions in writing. And I would beg, therefore, it is not mandatory to use an hour of parliamentary questions, if we don't have to, I won't take the right. Okay. Who's next to the word? Vinko Zorić, Miloš Jovanović, pa. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21907	The first question is, I asked three parliamentary questions at a session on October 25, 2005, and I received an answer, but no mention of my question is raised. So, it says here that I asked the following parliamentary questions and then there's no questions at all. And the answer is about my question, so the question was that I read in the press, that I read on a teletext on federal television that the Council of Ministers decided to single out 100,000 of the current reserves of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget to help the victims in an earthquake in Pakistan. And I said then that I was going along, but that I was from this same pay phone a year and a half ago asking the question about how there was an earthquake in Sovici and then I mentioned to the Council of Ministers who didn't know it, it's one place in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the municipality of Gruda and it didn't intervene at all. Then in response, I was told this way -- the consequences of the Sovici earthquake, the municipality of Gruda, which took place during 2004, did not consider any proposal specifically to show the scale and height of the earthquake, and the Council of Ministers did not consider any resolution of the consequences of the earthquake. However, regardless of the issue, it should be noted that the earthquake occurred last year, and since the fiscal 2004 would not have been completed, etc. etc. I'm now asking - who submitted the proposal on behalf of Pakisatan? There was another earthquake in Bosnia and Herzegovina two days ago. The Council of Ministers probably doesn't know about it, and if they have those who are passing on to them, tell them there was another earthquake in West-Herzegovina County, or canton. Well, I'm not the one who's supposed to make a suggestion, am I? Whoever proposed for Pakistan should also propose for the Western-Herzegovina County, that is, in that first case. You see, the hypocrisy of this council of ministers says it happened in 2004. The Council of Ministers repairs the damages that took place in 1991, 1992, 3 etc. And it suits me that he can't because it was the fourth year. 37 I will not write this question, for I cannot write it. Let the stenogram be taken and delivered to the Council of Ministers, let them tell us who proposed to them for Pakistan, so that same one will suggest for, or let that one suggest for these two earthquakes as well. And my second question is the College of our home - what is this here, this fear? This isn't the usual place to be in our hall. I'm a little scared. I'm going over there, and I'm kind of hit by it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21908	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21909	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21910	It will be about the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21911	This is going to be tied up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21912	Yes to the MP's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21913	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21914	Okay. Let's go. I thank my colleague Zorić. Miloš Jovanović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21915	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, my question concerns EUFOR and SFOR actions recently conducted in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You are witnesses of great use of power and power, where unfortunately those who are innocent get hurt very often, so the question would mean 1. Did the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of Canton of Sarajevo order the SIPI Agency to arrest Abazović Dragomir on suspicion of committing a war crime? 2. Who and on the basis of which regulations asked EUFOR to arrest Abazović Dragomir where his wife died in action, and he and his 11-year-old son were badly wounded under 3. Was the D.A.'s office aware of this warrant, the warrant for the arrest, and was that warrant returned to the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office by Canton of Sarajevo? Thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21916	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. Next up is Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Have him prepare for Dr. Crescent's death. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21917	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. The first question is for the Council of Ministers, and the second is for our administrative commission. The question for the Council of Ministers is – at what stage is the Payments Act? Last year, about half a year, we concluded that by the end of the ninth month of last year, we would have had the Law of Payments in the parliamentary procedure. We don't have that law until today, so for these reasons, and it's a question to the Council of Ministers at what stage is it and when are we going to have the Payments Act? And the second question is our administrative commission and it's about the Law on the Rights of State officials. We had it once in parliamentary procedure and that law was rejected, but we are the only country in the transition environment and from EU members who have no law on the rights of state officials. I ask the Administrative Commission – when will they renew the procedure of the Law? In the amendment phase, it may suffer some corrections and changes, but we should, in this four-year term, reach the Law on the Rights of Officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21918	Thank you very much. Dr. Crescent. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21919	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question as I read his explanation, the Professional Service shows several slides that will support what I'm talking about. By the way, the public was informed that a large sea of fish had taken place in the River Preca on 4 November 2005. It all ended up in the light of little pillars of our newspaper, on seconds of electronic media published on that day and the next. The echoes of the government's reaction are completely missing. From that day forth, the River of Brech flows dead. Instead of the river in our living environment, we got a wastewater collector and not any waste. The sports fishing society in Doboj presented a sad ceremony to say goodbye to the river once the richest fish in Europe. They stopped traffic on the Doboj Bridge, and while the tin music was playing the funeral march they threw crowns intertwined with flowers. All to draw the attention of the authorities for the need to take rigorous measures. It is surprising and worrying that any reaction by the official authorities from the level of the municipality, Republika Srpska, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina themselves are absent. There was no elemental curiosity of which types of poison killed about 400,000 fish in terms of its possible harm to human health. This shows a lack of elemental responsibility for the environment. 39 It is increasingly clear that private capital is taking over large companies of chemical, technical industries built in river valleys during the period when everything was everyone's and nobody's. That's how social property was defined. Large capital is often foreigners, owners can use the company's impeccableness on environmental issues and continue to use our rivers as waste dumps in order to increase profits, avoid paying costs, store dangerous materials. There are reasonable doubts that this is exactly what happened to the River Prescrib. It is true that these areas do not punish natural and legal persons for crimes in the area of environmental pollution. So our rivers are polluted with everything and everything. The number of wild dumps grows every day. The unsuspecting environment is being devastated by the uncontrollable exploitation of gravel. Cities delay a huge number of cubic cubic waste in the riverbed, construction waste being delayed on the coast. It is disappointing to meet such a degree of insensitivity to these problems and to agree to life in such an environment. A river with two hearts has been Spreč without life since 4 November 2005. With all due respect, she was escorted by fans with music and flowers. Are we waiting for the next victim? Due to all this, and in the interest of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am asking the Council of Ministers – Who is to blame for the fishing in the river Preventing the release of chemical toxic industrial substances from 4 November 2005? All that I have said and what you have seen and much more has been recorded on this CD that I will hand over to the Council of Ministers and warn them that in the event that we do not get an adequate response within a reasonable time, I will propose to this Parliament that an investigative commission be set up for the identification and sanctioning of the largest and most dangerous water pollutants in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think after what you've seen, I have every right to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21920	I thank Mr. Živković. No more reports. I'm sorry, Filip. Mr. Filip Andrić, he wasn't here on the list. Are there any more reported? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21921	Thank you, Mr. President, I tried to sign up electronically, so I thought it was already registered there. Thus, since I was not at the very beginning of this agenda point when we usually state whether we are satisfied with the answers we get to the questions we have previously asked, so I have sent one representative initiative standing here on 14.11.2005, according to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, which I asked to take appropriate legal measures towards federal television, i.e. the editor-in-chief and the editor of the show, which has been called an HVO criminal organisation on the show since 7.11.2005. That's what anyone who's seen that show can testify to. Unfortunately, I've got the answer which, I don't think a bit is the answer to what I suggested, but to see them from their position on that same show. So they say they've reviewed the show, or the video they own. I suggest they review the video of the 40 that was broadcast. They voluntarily conclude that from the context of this video it can be concluded that it did not refer to qualifications as a criminal organisation to the HVO but to individual units. And by the way, they didn't say what units they were. And they report to me that they have no intention of taking further what their legal obligation is in these situations because their assessment is to mix it up, to interfere further with editorial policy. I'm being referred to as an agent, if I have any further questions to speak directly to the party. I don't know which party? So I'm completely rejecting this as an answer and I don't think this is a response to my initiative at all, but the answer to my initiative would be to follow the law as the law predicted in these situations. Therefore, I am putting in place a new initiative under the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, addressed to the hands of the President and asking the Management Board to launch an initiative to investigate compliance with the legal rules in the business of this sector of the Regulatory Agency for Communications which has sent me such an answer. And with this initiative, I ask the service to deliver my initiative from 14.11.2005 and to deliver the answer as materials on which these could look at the overall situation and take appropriate steps towards those who have signed this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21922	I thank my colleague Andrić. There are no more applications for MPs' questions. That concludes this point. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. The request of Member Momčilo Novaković to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure you've received material for this point. A Kolega, Novaković, submitted the bill on 16 January 2006. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21923	I thank the chairman. I will read the Commission's conclusion on the report on the state of human rights in the KPZ of the closed type in Zenica. The Commission is asking the competent state and entity authorities, but now I do not understand why and from the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska, because it does not matter, but come on, it does not matter, to solve the case of beating up prisoners of Serbian and Croatian lawlessness at the KPZ of a closed type in Zenica in such a way as to fully protect their human rights and freedoms in accordance with international conventions for the protection of human rights and freedoms, as well as domestic rules, and to inform this Commission. It is a motive meaning the practical unrealization of this conclusion is a motive which is why I have proposed this law even though it is not usual for me to vote for this procedure myself, and here I have suggested, because it is really an urgent need for some issues to be resolved. 41 I believe that the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should have the opportunity to act as I suggested in this article for the reasons set out here in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21924	Thank you, colleague Novaković. He really rarely uses Article 105's procedure, but here's an emergency and they demand it. Miloš Jovanović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21925	Since we generally rarely vote for the laws of urgency and emergency procedure, and in order to remain principled, our four members of the Law Club, now I don't know how Mr. Novaković will probably not vote for this law to go in accordance with Article 105, and we ask Mr. Novaković that if he can mean to change that by 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21926	I will support Article 105's procedure because it is a good proposal from colleagues, Novaković. I also ask you from the club that, since you rarely use it, this is really in the interest of people whose human rights are at stake and counterpart Novaković has turned his attention to it. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21927	Not to mention, this is interesting thinking, but I think it would make sense to study this issue further. It may, if this security aspect is taken into account to some extent, stand up and once seem quite comprehensible. However, in another context, this may be a completely different message for the functioning of the Board of Deputies, so that I would suggest to my colleague Novaković precisely because this is reflected in all possible and necessary aspects, that, if not in the ordinary procedure, even if this is overqualified in the request for consideration under Article 104. So in that respect, I would accept, therefore, a shortened procedure, but I think it's too much to ask us to plead immediately on this law under the procedure of Article 105. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21928	Thank you. Who's next to the word? He's not answering. A kolega, Novaković, a replica of the dish, a colleague of Andrić's discussion. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21929	I'd just be begging after all the discussions, five minutes off. There's no need to leave, just for brief consultations. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21930	And can we let my colleague Andrić finish the debate, and then later.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21931	After the debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21932	Okay. Okay. Here you go, fellow Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21933	Given that I've been setting up the above-mentioned issues and the parliamentary initiatives here, and I want to say here my position on behalf of the HDZ Club that we want to support as quickly as possible, because it's really a serious question so that we don't get to the coffins, so maybe we'll have problems again with the procedures when the coffin arrives. So I ask my colleague Novaković not to withdraw but to go after 105 and to ask the other colleagues for understanding to adopt it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21934	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and a five-minute break at the request of the SDS Club, but please don't go any further. So five minutes, we'll continue to work after small consultations at the SDS Club. I ask the messengers to call out, who are outside, and we have a quorum. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking them to come in. You want a request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21935	There's a need. I was looking for a break because of the consultations within the Club, in particular that it is a matter that is really not fundamentally changing whether it is in regular procedure or in a shortened procedure, because it is more urgent that its resolution is so urgent that it cannot be more urgent. That's why I asked for a break to consult with my colleagues and we're still gonna vote for this proposal to be followed by Article 105. I won't change the procedure to 104 because I appreciate that in this way I won't solve the most important meaning of what it says here, that is, the question of those people who are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21936	I thank my colleague Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume they're the MPs who came in outside. We have a quorum. 43 Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 11 versus 16, 2 abstentions. So there's no majority, there's no entity, there's no majority, there's no total majority, and this request is not accepted. Therefore, the request of Momčilo Novaković to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions on detention and other emergency measures pursuant to Article 105 is not accepted. So this goes into regular procedure. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of 26 January before this end of working time, the Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Tax Act on an additional value for the request to be considered under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. This material was delivered to you by fax on January 27th. I'm opening a debate on the motion for an emergency procedure. Who's answering for a word? A colleague, Novaković. Here you go, then Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21937	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, before I say a very clear position, because I did not get a chance at the last point to thank all the human rights fighters who were manifested by the vote, or not by voting on this point. As for the Council of Ministers' request, I made my position absolutely clear about this request at the last session, but what I don't understand is that I would be begging the College's position, which is that at the last session, we have decided that this law is going into regular procedure. So that's the decision of this home. And I don't see how it's possible for that law to go back to a shortened procedure if it's in a regular procedure. Even if it wasn't the same text, of the two laws that enter the procedure, the one that first entered, and that's the one that's being discussed in the regular procedure. That's why I'd like to make it perfectly clear whether we can even discuss this law in a short procedure, and I'm convinced that it's not possible to do business at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21938	I, of course, will answer before I give the word to others, Križanović, I know that the same text is offered. We had this at the College, so business is not prohibited because when the Council of Ministers asks for a procedure, so Article 105, we have to put it on the stand. The second thing is what kind of relationship as fellow MPs will have to do with it. And I haven't changed my mind about that either, but we couldn't have avoided so we couldn't have pleaded to article 105's procedure, even though it was identical. So it's not forbidden. There's the Rules of Procedure, he didn't put a decades-long ban on it, although I can also interpret it that way. Here's a colleague of Novaković. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21939	I understand the College, if it were clear in the Rules of Procedure, we probably wouldn't even have this debate right now. It is obvious that the business question is not defined enough, so we have now come to the situation that we have the same law in regular procedure and demand that we discuss it in the ER. And we make a decision. I guess it's the attitude of this house, this house above. So this home has made a decision. I guess the decision of this house is above any other one of these demands. If this home has made a decision that this law is going into regular procedure, it goes into regular procedure for me and the Council of Ministers cannot go with an emergency request when it is already in the regular. So, I don't think this issue can be solved in this way as suggested by the Council of Ministers. So this law must go into regular procedure and I would really ask the Council of Ministers to make this proposal, because watch out, we are now, not to talk about other aspects. I'm just asking the matter of procedure here, not to talk about other aspects of me supporting two rapes now. One SDP and another Council of Ministers. To discuss the same laws at each session in the same text, I keep discussing the same laws, and I ask you, I will deliver the contribution of my discussion together with the laws, because the law repeats that I do not read my discussion, I will deliver the contribution from now on to the MPs along with the law and my discussion. The stenogram means my discussion, because it's all happening again and I don't see any reason to talk means more than I once said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21940	I thank my colleague Novaković. Before other colleagues came forward, he asked for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. Here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21941	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is we sent this law back to the Council of Ministers at last session for two reasons. To say right away is not exactly the same text, because it was the Law on the Completion of the VAT Act, and this is the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law. So it's not the same text. And what it's about. We've received information from the representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21942	Please, let's hear from the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21943	We have received information from representatives of the Association of Publishers and Graphicians of Bosnia and Herzegovina that they have spoken with individual parliamentary clubs in this House and have received assurance that this time might support the vote of this law. So you did opt for these two members in the last session for a regular procedure. However, no commission has yet come to the commission's hearing of these laws and it is obviously a long process, and every day publishers suffer certain damages. And that's why we are, not because God wouldn't support this, so not because God wouldn't play with Parliament, but because we had information that there was a number of MPs who could now support this because it was realized that this was a reality and that there was no political game or 45 buying political points, but that the reality that publishers in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing every day, as the Council of Ministers constantly says is suffering certain damages. And that is why we have again asked that we try to understand this moment and that today you adopt that we are going through an emergency procedure and that today we are voting on this law. So there was no evil intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21944	Thank you. Word was asked for by colleague Križanović, so Dr. Kunić, then Milićević, so let's take it in a row. Križanović. And he's blaming the quote. I apologize to Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21945	I just have to comment, not just the publishers, Mr. Chairman. Consumers suffer value added tax has burdened consumers. That's one thing. And secondly, please, when you were giving the introduction, I wonder if, according to this proposal, we have a positive opinion of the IMF on amendments and amendments to the Law? What is the relationship to the proposed amendments to the law?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21946	Here you go. The chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21947	Well, let me tell you, do we have a positive IMF opinion? I don't know why now. Last time we discussed whether we had a positive opinion of the Administrative for indirect taxation. So we've got him. Now we're introducing the IMF. After all, we have three times the Council of Ministers' decision, we have a positive opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and we have not asked for the IMF's consent, believing that every MP in this Chamber expects the government to lead our economic policy with talks and agreements with the IMF without having to have any agreement. I mean, if you're looking for this agreement from the IMF, then you're directly affecting the policy we're running. We do not want the IMF for every law and everything that is done by customs, taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina to receive written support from the IMF. We have instead of the IMF formed a state financial council that now needs to take over the role of the IMF and which is slowly taking over. So the answer is do we have consent? We don't! But did we ask for it? We didn't! After all, they know of all these processes being conducted in both the Council of Ministers and Parliament and have not reacted in any possible way in a negative context to stop it. On the other hand, the IMF at the INS through this unit of monitoring macroeconomic analysis has a professor, Dr. Špana, which represents the IMF in that department of the Directorate for indirect taxation and probably an integral part of the consent of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and Consensus, is the consent of that unit, are we talking here about macroeconomic stability. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21948	The word was requested by the president, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21949	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, I would like, since this is, we are a serious Parliament, a serious House, a serious Council of Ministers, I think this speaker should weigh every word. If the funds have informed the Council of Ministers that MPs have changed their position and that is the only reason this came to this session of this House, then we are one of the most tragic parliaments in this part of Europe and the world. If that's all the reason. I'm asking you all to keep together the dignity and the personal and this home and the state that we represent and I think if there are other arguments I'm willing to listen to, but this is an argument that represented a slap on each of us, no matter what attitude we had last time and what attitude we're going to have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21950	Thank you very much. Mr Adnan Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21951	I don't know why Mr. Chairman would argue like this and try to rekindle here. So, as far as I'm concerned, there are no arguments, but if you look at Mr. Chairman's stenogram, is it obvious that I can't prove otherwise what I said, I kind of said the Association of the publishers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I wasn't talking about print media. Association of publishers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Graphics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the publishers are not print media that you are always trying to put it in the context of the Council of Ministers' and myself's struggle personally to help individual media in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm talking about publishers here, people who print books. I'm talking about graphics here. What the media is including in the publishers, that's another thing now. But please don't twist my words and don't, in fact absolutely wrongly present what I said in an inappropriate way. Look at the stenogram and they'll see what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21952	Thank you. I'm not going to take the law anymore, it wasn't my intention to really discuss it, it was just that. Who answered the line? Zorić, Novaković. I'm sorry, dr. I'll Kunić it's a replica. Here's my apology. Here's a replica of both. You will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21953	And this is a replica. Part of the replica here unfortunately said Špirić. I wish I'd said that. I am very sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers that I have chosen will not listen, and I am also glad that he is agreeing with those who did not elect him in this House. Everyone has to be obvious someday. 47 I am, in addition to this parliament in, I think, last January's conclusion is that until 31.1. I have made amendments to the excise tax law, or excise duties, and then it is said that this cannot be done without the Management Board for indirect taxation. So you see how you get a quick opinion from the Management Board on indirect taxation. And I've mentioned a representative question on the 26th and just now, so one of the questions is, whenever they're going to end the cost and taxes on the shed oil for heating. Not for riding in diesel engines, in diesel cars. That's not me, that's last year's executive power, our admits that tax and excise duty were imposed on lye oil because some are driving with that lot of oil. So it's again a matter of the executive to prevent it and to punish those who pour into the car tanks and those who ride on that oil. And who guarantees me that I didn't come to Sarajevo today with a glass of energy. They'll have a tank full of oil and diesel to sell to me. So even more damage to do. And I asked, and the Council of Ministers answers me – a proposal for the heating of an oil bar without paying excise duty and tax was sent to the Directorate for indirect taxation as the competent institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to analyse this issue and make a possible proposal. And they made a commitment last year to sort it out by 31.1. And now, I don't feel bad when someone here, I'm not gonna use a rough word of humor, but when someone sells math to me, and I'm a math teacher, then I'm really, really angry and I'm glad in the end that this law won't pass. No matter how much I belong to the part of the MPs who chose this council of ministers. So we can't say and keep moving behind the Department of indirect taxation, and then when we need her to pass by law right away and give her a positive opinion. Here's someone here, I don't know who's behind me, he said let's get the media out of this law and we'll adopt him right away. Our chairman of the Council of Ministers would disagree. And he says it's not about the media. And he says he heard from someone that part of the MP would back it up, so he put it right here. And he heard from Parliament a conclusion adopted last year that on January 31st last year, so tomorrow he will bring amendments and additions to the Excise Taxation Act and did not make it. So it is more important to him that someone tells him that MPs are thinking, than what this parliament concludes as its document, and it simply does not go and go. Looks like this council of ministers doesn't matter what the budget is. Because as they prepared him and as it was in the last session, so did he. So, just here some people act like sheriffs. And I want to be west, but not wild.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21954	I thank my colleague Zorić. Dr. Crescent. Kunić asked for a replica, I apologize, I didn't realize Dr. I'll Kunić, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21955	Thank the chairman, the same question is repeated here in this House as to how to subdue the Council of Ministers under the rule of law to act within the framework of the law. This act is a very uncomfortable leaving the session unless someone else's idea is accepted. It's very embarrassing, if I didn't say other things, because I'm afraid I'd also cause anger, etc. We have the same question as in my time that I have apostropheded several times that the same question that Parliament is showing itself about is in order at the session. You don't have that anywhere in the 48 civilized world. And you don't have what Mr. Novaković said – last time this parliament decided that it was going into regular procedure, the Council of Ministers is going, proposing the same thing to this session. Well, the Council of Ministers is responsible for this House. He chooses him, or gives consent, but there he stands in the Council of Ministers' Law that he is responsible to Parliament, that he submits a report, that I do not know whether every 6 months or every year to submit. The Council of Ministers is clearly put above Parliament. Whoever's sitting there, I don't even know who's sitting there anymore. There were resignations, they were resignations. What? You don't know who's drinking anymore, who's paying. Perhaps we are inconclusive that we have not seriously considered it, put the minister’s advice on the agenda. So what are those explanations, please? Nomotechnically, that a man understands himself in a nomotechnic. He says this, please, this is a supplement, a change and a supplement, it was a supplement. Well, any addition to the law is an amendment and an addition. There's no law supplement. There are only changes and additions. Because every supplement is a change and a supplement. 'Cause supplement, when you're supplementing and changing. So please, did you hear that? What kind of things happen here. So I think we need to get serious about the Council of Ministers and seriously put the Council of Ministers' responsibility. So also those who were the most fires, the most hot supporters of this council of ministers, I think they changed their mind in the meantime. And those who chose him. Once you have to say it seriously – please you can't do it like that. You will not pull this parliament by the nose. Well, who are we sitting here? Do we allow ourselves that kind of work? Really. I think that's enough and that one should ask a serious question and a question of trust to this Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21956	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. Did you want a discussion or a replica? There's a replica yet. If you wanted a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21957	If it has to be me, I'll replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21958	Please don't. There's a couple of replicas attached to this. Then colleague Novaković's replica, here's the discussion will go. He has a colleague Novaković replica, so Moranjkić replica, then Živković replica, then Mlako replica. It's a milky discussion. So discussion later. I apologize to my colleague Križanović, please. If the replica can, if it's a discussion, I have to take care of it. Help me just so I don't make a mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21959	I will only, thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I will only, given the opinions expressed by the chairman, suggest and suggest to the Council of Ministers that Article 2 of this law be converted into law and delivered by procedure 105, because there is no point in making this member hostage of Article 1. So what is perfectly normal and realistic and should be adopted should be delivered as a special law, because in this way it is constantly placed in the role of the hostage of Article 1. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21960	Thank you. A colleague of Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21961	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here's just a brief sentence that I really don't understand why we're arguing about this here. We discussed this at the last session once. We have established what we have received from the Management Board is not a positive opinion, that it is against the law, that it is against the constitution, so this paper has caused your reaction that Parliament has accepted, and that is the point of the 9th agenda, that both President and Chairman Džoli Dikson are relieved of it, and I don't know why we need to discuss it here, but to vote against this 105th member, as Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, since this is not the same law, then we should have a second opinion. Since we don't have a second opinion, then I don't know what we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21962	Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm thinking about what it is and I can't help but think about what one respected civil servant said in the last parliament, I guess I need two mandates to find out what I'm supposed to say, the haman guessed. I'm now asking what it's like, one question and the conclusion will be. What is the difference between the bill's proposal, which was submitted by one MP, which I claim, and was said by fellow MPs in these benches on the same day, that he was more complete, more complex and more specific and better than this, and had a decision to go into the regular procedure, and I respect that. So I was supposed to sit down and just spike and say it back and back again and make it again. What I've learned, I'm glad, for this term one, is that there's an unprecedented circus going on in this House, and that's what I found out, and thank you for saying that I need two mandates to find out what I'm supposed to do. Thank you now for opening my eyes to find out that this Parliament is making an unprecedented circus and bleach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21964	Thank you. Mr. Križanović's discussion, Mlaćo's discussion, and Sipović's discussion. I'm asking you to listen to your colleagues. The last time we spoke exhaustively, but to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I am not happy that in the ordinary procedure today, we have a number of laws in Parliament, which refer to amendments and supplement the VAT law. I can safely say that this is a consequence, to say, of an intrinsic relationship or of an endorphic relationship to certain initiatives, which have been timely reaching changes and additions to the VAT Act. But everything that arrived just before New Year's Eve was explained that it was too late, that there was no talk of any change in VAT, that this situation would actually be created by the Council of Ministers. Because it is immediately after the New Year's Eve, twice it comes out with a proposal to amend and supplement the VAT, in accordance with Article 105. Of course, there is no objection to a number of MPs in this house, which are led by such an initiative and want to defend their proposals that have been consistently represented by the original VAT debate itself. Here, today, as one of the preambles of amending and supplementing this law, I am objectively in one difficult, to say, dilemma today. Part of what we represent is contained in the amendments and additions to this proposal. And, if we're going to be correct, we could support those changes. But I also believe that the Council of Ministers simply does not manage the whole process. From all the problems that have happened and that are now happening with VAT, it's just found as serious, let's say, an urgent problem of easing the publishing of formation, let's say, science and education. It's a problem. For us, however, much greater problems are what makes people existent. This is missing some analysis. We said we'd be able to analyze the effects of VAT very quickly. I'm just going to use a few data to track you down with our analysis that VAT caused several elements. The increase in prices to a small extent makes the consumer's crust popular after the introduction of the VAT, comparing 30 days of January with the previous month, says that these products have averaged 7.8% at BiH level, respectively, in the Federation by 7% and RS by 8.6%. This inflation had an impact of only 0.2-0.3%. Once a month price change for a little after the introduction of the VAT, in the Federation of BiH was 7% in RS 8.6 but it is interesting...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21966	I beg you, if it's possible to stick to the subject. This is where we discuss the procedure of Article 105. Have we made a decision or not? We're getting into the essence. We can open that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21967	I think I'm explaining why... I'm going to support this or not. The point is that we have the understanding that changes in a much wider range of products should have been made to make alive in BiH. And I have experience, but if you don't think it's a subject, I'd be begging, because of this dilemma, which I said after the discussion, we'd take a half hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21968	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mrs. Mlaćo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21969	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, esteeming fellow Members and colleagues, I would like to say briefly the following. Since this is about procedure, we're only talking about procedure for a little while. My reflection on why this law amending and supplementing the VAT law is on the agenda of this and today's House of Representatives of Parliament's House of Representatives is one continuity, which has been represented since the start of this law, and represents the interests of this group of businessmen that the most painless solution will be found by including in the VAT system, for the reason that other groups are already covered by the publishing area are not covered by this programme of mitigation measures, is the only situation in which this group finds itself and, precisely, this resistance tells me of the true desire of 51 proposing that this group of businessmen once again find a place for normal, continuous work in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21970	Thank you. A colleague of Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21971	I would like to fully join my dear colleague Mlaćo and the reasons why as an MP I would support, only to discuss the procedure, to give the Council of Ministers as a bearer of very important, complex work and they announced that they would always intervene if there were certain disturbances and obtaining this consent and this opinion. By also arguing the reasons for the next item of the agenda of the honourable MP Dušanka Majkić for reasons, which is why this parliament and the proponent must intervene when they see there about the foreign investment policy law, that it is in contradiction for foreign investors to suffer the damages in ambiguities. So, which is why I don't want to diminish any proposal from every MP in this esteemed home, propose amendments and additions to the law and defend their arguments. I'm fully estimating it. I would not agree that, by nature, I do not feel tragic being here in this house as an MP, or an MP elected in the elections, and I don't think we should feel like anyone. All my colleagues I appreciate both the chairman and this, I wouldn't have pathetic words if it were tragic. Next, I'd draw attention to one thing, really, but I say well-meaning. I agree with a respected colleague, no matter how much I highly appreciate the Council of Ministers and the Chairman, but if he gives arguments and views, he needs them in front of this esteemed home and MP, we should recommend that, with great respect, take all suggestions, suggestions and remarks, any MPs and fight for those views. I'm sure I'm telling you, as a man, I've never been courteous. As an emissary, I will preserve my dignity and my personal and this home. I want to say in the end what the distinguished colleague said, since she has the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, it is only a matter of procedure, I am in order to give the opportunity to propose the short procedure what is said, and then the course of the debate may also be to see the proposals of the other MPs and to find a compromise solution, to get this home out of this stalemate position, i.e. to give an opportunity to propose to the Council of Ministers a thorough explanation of their reasons for emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21972	I thank my colleague Sipović. You must know that the procedure of article 105 is to take or leave the procedure. So there is no after compromise if the procedure is accepted, the content is accepted. So, for nothing else, it is here that the story of the procedure is so complex.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21973	Well, I have to speak to the Honorable Chairman, I must say. Don't argue, take it or leave it. We only give the promoter a chance for him to propose his amendments and amendments to the law in a shortened procedure. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21974	No, you're wrong. Read the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you, I didn't mean to be mean. The procedure of Article 105 implies, if we adopt it, then we automatically vote on content, there are no changes. It's not a dot, it's not a decimal. It's 104. It's a shortened procedure. The second thing is that the Council of Ministers offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21975	Obviously, I missed it. It's not really good.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21976	Okay. I'm asking for the public. We were planning to take a break. Let's see how many more debaters there are. A colleague, Bešlagić, Perkanović, and we will conclude the debate and give a break and then we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21977	I'll be very brief. After last session, I have to express my satisfaction that an old picture came out in the paper, along with Mrs Azra, Mr Duraković, Lagumdžija, Špirić and I would not be wrong, because I finally expressed my abstention because our bill was better than this and that he entered the regular procedure, but it is a miracle that those who were neutral are guilty of what the law was propo and that still being a miracle bigger and this law also went into the procedure and the same parliament made the same decision that he was going into the regular procedure. And we expect to get to the law in the regular procedure. However, here I have an indicative view, which I would only like to mention, that it has once again insisted on this law, and has been over a month since the introduction of the VAT. I'd be willing to discuss this, if today, if nothing gets the first effects of VAT and that's why we say today, folks, this activity is really in the hardest situation and I suggest we accept the proposal under Article 105. But we here have a recurring date, that change and the addition, all the same, I've read the same text, only the date has changed and the change and the addition. For those reasons, I think the most logical thing after the debate is to take a break, so please see it upstairs in the presidency, and we here too, see how we're going to do and what we're going to do with these things.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21978	Thank you. My colleague Perkanović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21979	For the most part, Mr. Bešlagić said what I wanted to say. I will just add that it is incorrect of the Council of Ministers to put the same law on the agenda, with the same objective of procedure 105, immediately at the next session. I agree with him that the regular procedure will allow for analysis and will allow for re-debates on this law based on analysis. This law has long been passed, painfully and as it is, it must be seen working on the ground, in order to have feedback in order to even discuss changes and additions. That's it. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21980	Thank you. Dr Gligorić. I don't see any more reports. We're having an argument. There's Mr. Moranjkić. Is it a replica or a discussion again? If it's a replica, go ahead. Gligorich, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21981	Last time I also spoke, in the sense that we must respect our decision and our principle. We and this time should remain consistent with our previous position, the conclusion, because we should observe this in the context of other official proposals by Members, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, also had the right, on the basis of their right to benefit from the Rules of Procedure and the Council of Ministers. Nothing important has changed except maybe somewhere in the towers that he's given someone support and that now someone estimates that he can get that question back to the beginning, and ignore this procedure, which we are, because now it's not just a member of the 105th Rules of Procedure, but you have now between the obstacles, you have the conclusion of the House of Representatives, who said it goes according to Rule 104. In this case, we have come into one situation to chair the Council of Ministers by ignoring proposals, above all from the opposition, that this issue could also be resolved in a normal, honorable way. We had an argument as to why it was so, that today he would be in a position to read political points and better sympathies with the media that he wanted and look at the replacements of the thesis, now he's posing himself in public as the man he wants, and the man didn't have a vision when we talked about what would happen to that. And now we just want to remove it in the procedure and we know that these people need help and we need to support publishing, but, at the same time, don't replace the thesis and that someone is manipulating Parliament right now is some supporter, an advocate, and previously as a proposer had a position to look at it. Why didn't he see it? The extremity is something else entirely. By the way, we want, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, to address the problem. The fact that someone didn't realize in time, he should go out and say it. What you suggested at one point, I didn't see the Council of Ministers well. You're right. It's the size of a politician and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. He won't get the crown off his head if you admit that at one point you didn't well propose all the provisions in the law. And now you're going back to what we of the opposition have proposed, and now you have to charge us only because we respect the procedure and the Rules of Procedure. We can't, personally, I don't want to break the Rules of Procedure, procedures, constitutional norm, which we previously agreed on, and now someone who wants to say from the media is against books and newspapers. So here, Terzić very perfiduously drags us into a manipulation from which man, instead of pointing his finger at him, you're the culprit in BiH, you don't know how to work, you don't know how to look, you have a problem. He becomes the other man, who stands for something, and we who have said it, persistently and constantly, have come to some wrong side by replacing the thesis and the perfided game of Mr. Terzić. Let's go back to principle, procedure, and we'll end it all. The procedure obliges Mr. Terzić. There's nothing in the Horucus, breaks over his knee, skins and skins like he does all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21982	I thank Dr. Gligorić. A colleague of Moranjkić. No more reports. Just a little patience, we'll end it in a democratic way and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21983	Gentlemen, fellow MPs and others, I, as far as I know, and, behold, I checked with Mr Hurtić, an expert, if we release any product from VAT, he automatically exits the VAT system. Because the last time I talked about medications to get rid of them, then the side and top of the sky was a blow, not for God's sakes, we're going to lose our drug factory, because then it's coming out of the VAT system, and the re-prometers are staying. I know that Mr Hurtić means to say, however, that for me is a rotten grandmother flax, that the intellectual services are meant here. You don't say, and what does the press, the book, etc. say? I know there's a part of the intellectual... that's normal, but the rest, so it can't be erased. If that's not how we do it, gentlemen, except to accept such a concise bill, as I suggested it along with one and the other, which means, if someone here, as Gligorić said, is doing points to now fight for that poor, publishing house, etc. It's a dusting in the eyes, which was quite well and well noticed by Mr., fellow MP Duraković at the last session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21984	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate. Since Mr. Križanović, I understood him for a plea request a break, can we vote to finish Jozo this point? I'm asking you to put it on a plea. Are we going to vote now or after the break? Please, the club has the right to request a half-hour break. Please, let's just make a deal. It won't be half an hour. The break's up to half past three. Use it for lunch. So, an hour and we'll be back. There's no discussion, and there's just a vote. I guess you've rested, had lunch, moved on. [[PAUZA]] We've completed the debate on the fifth agenda. We're going to a plea. Prepare to vote. We vote for a request from the Council of Ministers for Procedure. I'm begging you, we've closed the debate. If there is a need, we know what the explanation is, Jozo, if we can avoid it from reopening the debate. Well, here you go. You asked for a break. I took a break for lunch an hour. You were looking like a club. If you'd like to explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21985	...someone's been looking for a break, to be able to briefly explain those reasons. I'll do two sentences to say the reasons. First of all, I said that we had a dilemma to support or not to support this proposal, for the reason that it is well contained, far broader and more thorough proposal of our amendments and additions. A conscious situation, where we are and, unfortunately, aware of the situation that the Council of Ministers will not appear in due course with a thorough proposal to amend and supplement the VAT, we believe that it is better to support anything than nothing and that future changes... will probably go in the direction that this is partially resolved, so in that sense it was mine. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21986	... on a proposal relating to point 5. The Council of Ministers vote now. Vote now. For 18, versus 17, abstention 3. We don't have an entity majority, so we'll leave it to the alignment. We're going as last time. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. I'm sorry, this is the worst possible option. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. We'll be in business procedures and we'll be in touch. Here's to getting along. There's no consent. We'll do it again. Do you agree to complete the procedure? We will. So there's no consent. Now it's the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So no, 10 against Republika Srpska, 7 from the Federation. There is no entity majority, and this goes into regular procedure and we move to the sixth point of the agenda Ad.6. The request of MP Dušanka Majkić to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 26 January, the Rules of Procedure of Kolegica Majkić also submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value with the requirement to be considered under an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. On the same day along with the record, by fax, you have been presented with a proposal for this law. I'm opening an emergency hearing. The word is for dr. Živković. Here you go. Here you go. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21987	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since she is a respected colleague of mine, has given me the authority to say on behalf of her that she is withdrawing her request for procedure 105, and proposes that this House proposes to accept her 104 procedure, allowing both the Commission and the Council of Ministers to give their opinion on this law and, if necessary, to obtain a positive opinion from the Management Board for indirect taxation on this law. So here's your request to switch to 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21988	I thank the SNSD Club for its constructive proposal. So it's not procedure 105, it's to go into short procedure and get all the sightings. Here you go. Momčilo Novaković. You didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21989	Given that, I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21990	Okay. Is there any further discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. 56 So the procedure of Article 104, shortened procedure 104. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 35 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we have accepted MP Dušanka Majkić's request to consider the amendment and supplement of the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, as you know at the 72nd session of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data, did not receive an entity majority. In the College Commission, we carried out the harmonisation. You've received a match report. So there's no consent and we're going to go to the second round of voting on the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. About the law yes. Either something's wrong with the keyboard, or you didn't understand how to vote. It's in the second round. Please. We're voting on the law. Please in the second round. So get ready to vote. We're voting on the law. Vote now. He didn't get the entity majority of the Federal. Who's asking for a repeat? Please prepare to vote. Vote now. And we won't do it again. It doesn't make sense. For 16, versus 15, so we don't have 2/3 of the Federation against. The law has been passed. The law is therefore, I realize that the Law on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been adopted and thus we move to the eighth point of the agenda, Ad.8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the proposal for a law on the application of provisional measures to persons indicted and not available to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons involved in assisting persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, prepare to vote. Vote now. Please repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 25, there's no, there's 2/3 of the entity against. So he's going into regular procedure. The procedure of Article 104 has not been accepted. 57 We move to the ninth point of Ad.9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the initiative of MP Nikola Špirić to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the chairman of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, you know that this initiative was launched at the last session and that we have made it clear that there was a majority of them in excess. There was no entity majority. Prepare to vote. Vote now. No, no, you know what it's about, it's not a problem. You're asking it to happen again, aren't you? Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. So for 29, against 11, abstention, against 16. There's no 2/3 of the Federation. I agree that Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal was accepted to launch an initiative by the Council of Ministers to resolve the chairman of the Management Board for indirect taxation of Mr Dixon. We're going to the tenth point, Ad.10. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Revision of BiH Institutions On Friday, 27 January, we sent you a report by fax from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of BiH. You have seen the Joint Commission reach agreement in the same text of this law by adopting seven amendments. I'm opening a debate. Hazim Felić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21991	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and fellow Members, I can say on behalf of the Commissioner in front of the House of Representatives that we have agreed on the text, the various texts of the Law on Audit. What I would like to draw attention to is that the House declares itself on the conclusion set by the Joint Commission at the Joint session, which concerns
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21992	Wait a minute, please, we're done here, you can, after you object there.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21993	What I would like to draw attention to is the House, and I would like to ask that it be made clear on the conclusion that we have established the Joint Commission, which is that the Council of Ministers submits a report on the application of the Accounting and Audit Law and the effects of that application, given that there have been different interpretations and dilemmas about this application. 58 In fact, what we certainly know is that the Law, the application of the Accounting and Audit Act, has been delayed, and for this reason we want to know what the effects of the application are and how far they have come with application. For this reason, I would like to ask the chairperson to give a special statement on the conclusion that you have received from all MPs on the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21994	The Commission's conclusion is yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21995	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21996	Okay. Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So now we're voting on the law in the second reading, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21997	No, not now about the compliance committee's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21998	It's about the committee's compliance report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. The Commission has agreed everything. So I find that with 35 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we have agreed the Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm putting into the statement the conclusions of our commission, especially. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 29, no one against, three abstentions. So I realize that we have also accepted the conclusion, in particular the conclusion of our commission, and thus obtained the conditions to move to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. Report from the BiH Financial Business Audit Office on the audit carried out for 2004: I remind you, you know that we agreed to place 10 per 10 institutions as agenda points in order to hold a debate. We conduct the debate individually, we will individually plead from the institution to the institution, with the general conclusion of the commission also being adopted at the end. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm just finishing the break-up. 59 Prepare to vote on the report under a) General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, offices and services Prepare to vote. Vote now, with the Commission's conclusions, of course. We must vote individually. So I find that with 32 votes for, no one against, four abstentions, we have accepted the Office's Review Report for the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH's Offices and Services for 2004. Prepare to vote under b) The institutions of the Ombudsman for Human Rights BiH Vote now So under a) we adopted individually. So get ready to vote, we vote for all the other reports in the package. If you agree to vote on everything in the package, here. Vote now. And, of course, the Commission's conclusions. So I find that with 34 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, so we adopted reports from the BiH Office for Financial Business Audit - BiH Human Rights Institution for 2004, - the BiH Accreditation Institute, - the Ministry of Standards, Metrology and Intellectual Property, - the BiH Election Commission, - the BiH Competition Council, - the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, - the Ministry of Communications and Transport, - the BiH Ministry of Defence and - the BiH Ministry of Justice I thank and I would like to move on to the 12th point of the Ad.12. The appointment of members of the House's committee instead of the deceased Abdulah Nakaš and Seade Palavrić at the last session, as you know, new MPs Mehmed Žilić and Mirsad Sipović, took an oath before this house and fully assumed parliamentary rights and obligations. They're both MPs from the SDA Club. I ask the Club to present proposals for membership in the House's committees for these two MPs. It was on the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u21999	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the SDA Club, since Mr Jahić is absent, and here I did not give Mrs Mlačo this paper, has agreed that 60 - that Mr Mirsad Sipović would be proposed as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, then the Commission for Finance and Budget and the Commission for Gender Equality - and that Mr Mehmed Žilić would be proposed to the Joint Commission both at home for Defence and Security and the Commission for Foreign Policy. This is the decision of the SDA Club and the motion to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22000	Thank you. I suggest we take the decision of the SDA Club and vote in full for a proposal like this yes. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? There's no one here. Thank you. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 35 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we have accepted the SDA's proposal on the schedule of therefore co-worker Mirsad Sipović and counterparts, Mehmed Žilić, for members of the vacant committee, as read by Vice-President Šefik Džaferović. Moving to the 13th point of the Ad.13 agenda. The appointment of three members to the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction of Žilić Mehmed. Who else on behalf of HDZ? Martin Raguž. Here are Martin Raguž and Milorad Živković's suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22001	This on behalf of the new HDZ. That's why I accepted. So there's no confusion. I think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22002	Any other suggestions? There isn't. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 33 votes for, no one against, no one is comprehensible, we have accepted three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the implementation of the Convention against the Development of Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination are Mr Mehmed Žilić, Dr. Milorad Živković and Mr. Martin Raguž. 61 We have thus obtained the conditions to move to the 14th point of the agenda, that is Ad.14. The General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on the reading of their citizens and foreigners, (c) the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan, (d) the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, (e) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina on Co-operation in the Field of War Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the Croatian Council of Defence and members of their families, (f) the United Nations Convention against Corruption, (g) the Convention on Cyber Crime, (h) the Additional Protocol on the Law of War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Republic of BiH's Governmental Crime and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of BiH (C). Who's answering for a word? Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22003	Mr. Chairman, I don't know anyone here in front of the Council of Ministers, I had a practical question – which countries did Bosnia and Herzegovina sign an Agreement on Economic Investment Technical and Cultural Sport and Youth Cooperation? In fact, here there is, I am not this year, as far as I am in Parliament, I have not seen that we have signed this agreement with any other country, except Saudi Arabia. I'm afraid since there's none of these here that they signed, of course I won't get an answer, and then I don't know which way you'd go about voting. My suggestion, if possible, regardless of the Commission's view that those who have worked on this agreement are closer to Parliament, what is it that has defined the Council of Ministers and signatories of Mr Terzić to sign such an agreement with saudijski Arabija, and not with another country, and if this is not possible, that is, if the dom disagrees with this proposal, then it would be good for our commission, the parliamentary commission to monitor the implementation of this agreement because of its possible abuses, and should not mention the great abuses of various humanitarian organisations, etc. etc. that happened in these places. So it would be a good way to actually define one of these two ways before we say it under point (a) of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22004	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Marija Perkanović. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22005	I would ask the same question here -- how can youth co-operation be mentioned here when there is no law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina on youth organisations? And let's say in what way those imagine co-operation at all when it's youthful, the youth is currently organised at the entity level and there is no roof organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's youth.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22006	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? If I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22007	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22008	Ladies and gentlemen, I will shortly, of course, be involved in agreements from a) to i), but also in these dilemmas that my colleagues spoke of, counterpart Novaković, Marija Perkanović. I think it is the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to conclude co-operation agreements with all countries in different areas. I think that agreement as well as all agreements should be read, that it is logical that the state monitors the development of relations and whether agreements are respected and disrespected and whether the interests of both countries are respected. This is specifically about the agreement under a) and I don't think anyone is willing to enter into interstate agreements to nanonoise each other. I know for what reasons it is possible that such discussions can open different dilemmas, but I think any agreement between the two countries, and therefore international policy is a commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina, cannot do harm and should not be approached with, perhaps, a negative charge. He won't mind me saying such a word. Of course, the obligation remains, not only is this agreement monitored, but the country should monitor the implementation of all agreements and God forbid we continue to sign agreements with all countries and in the environment in all segments and in all areas. It's an inevitable future, an imminent co-operation in those areas. So, of course, I agree, not only why only the implementation of the agreement would be monitored under a), not all other agreements, and if this can, of course, satisfy, because I see nothing controversial within the content of the agreement. Of course, different suspicions can be opened, but I don't think they're allies when they get the agreement. That is why I think it is necessary to ratify the agreement from a) to i), and not to dispute, of course, the possibility that we can individually declare agreements from one another to the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22009	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22010	As usual we do this part of the job, adopt, but here sometimes it might be good to talk. I can imagine what motivated his colleague Novaković that, I completely understand him, but on the trail of what Mr. Špirić said, I will just continue. 63 I Misilm it's better to have agreements than not to have them. And after the problems that once arised, they were probably created because there were no agreements. Better to have agreements than when they're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22011	A colleague, Novaković, asked for a replica, and Marija Perkanović. You'll get it. We have a report from the committee in charge. So it was in front of the commission. But here you go, colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22012	So I would really ask my colleagues not to attribute to me what I didn't say. So I'm not saying I'm against Bosnia and Herzegovina signing international agreements and this one. But I said, I'll repeat, so it would be good if we had someone here from the Council of Ministers to answer my questions. There isn't. That's why I had two suggestions. So one is to wait for it to be one of those who signed it, and if it doesn't pass that second proposal I had that our commission, not the state authorities, means not those who signed it, but our foreign trade committee to monitor the realisation of this agreement. I beg you, I don't want, really no move I don't want anyone in a year or five or more calling me that by raising my hands, I've made it possible for something to conflict with the interests of everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the interests of the international community or anyone else. But I am absolutely alone for co-operation with all states, so normally Bosnia and Herzegovina and Saudi Arabia. I even think that we can benefit more from this cooperation than Saudi Arabia can get from us.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22013	I thank my colleague Novaković. Marija Parkanović, pa Martin Raguž, as chairman of the Commission, holds the presidency of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22014	Also, the same thing Mr. Novaković says is no one here against making an agreement, but I think agreements must be made in accordance with the existing legislation. I asked the question, if there is no Youth Organization Act at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how can contracts be concluded, or agreements related to this and how are they concluded? And under number two, there's also no law on sports. Therefore, I am that this agreement should be postponed and that those who have signed agreements answer some of our questions so that we will not be in any dilemmas, in order to give ourselves up. And no one has anything against the deal with everyone. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22015	Thank you. I just want to explain, international co-operation in all areas is at national level. It must be defined, therefore, whether there are internal laws. So international co-operation. I ask you, therefore, to understand that we are not opening any unnecessary debates here because it does not lead us in the spirit of what counterpart Novaković was talking about, which is absolutely fair. Here is the chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22016	Here, honored home and gentlemen, distinguished representatives, presidents, so we have delivered the Commission's views in writing, and I would like to tell you that, on the basis of the conclusions of this House, we are holding a session of the Commission and calling on the rapporteurs. And we have consistently respected the conclusions of this home. So around this agreement, according to all these points, there were rapporteurs from the Council of Ministers and full quorum at the meetings of the Commission. Therefore, already at that stage, the Commission is involved in a way to obtain information, to make enquiries and to give its opinion. And I can say that each of these agreements is supported, so from the members of the Commission in that procedure. The second thing, which is why I've actually reported the most, I consider every question about these agreements legitimate and so I've experienced this. Of course, I propose that on the trail, not just questions related to this agreement, but that it be the obligation of the Commission and this home to follow, because it is the role of Parliament, the supervisory role, the implementation of the ratified agreements. And that in this way we are not opening a particular issue today, especially when every agreement that opens up a space for Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation in a friendly sense in all areas with any country, I, in that sense, do not want to have any prejudice, but I want Bosnia and Herzegovina to be an open country and to cooperate in a transparent way. I think we should back it up. In that spirit, therefore, I believe that the whole of these agreements are on the track today, following these principles, and I think that we can support them, so that what Mr. Novaković said not only about this agreement, but also about all agreements, the Commission must have as the competent body of this home, as well as the House itself, at the end of the term, the possibility and obligation to ask questions, follow the implementation and, of course, to be in the function of quality implementation of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22017	I thank the chairman, Martin Raguž. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. He answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22018	So I think after Mr. Raguž just said, I mean this is really correct and it opens up the space to plead. But for you to discuss Mr. Novaković and Marija Perkanović, I think they are entirely on the trail, because in principle what you were looking for is so. However, when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, including what is on the entity level, of course both Bosnia and Herzegovina should show by agreement that 65 accepts, but at the same time in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are mechanisms by which we can simply monitor the implementation of any agreement. I don't think it should be burdened, wherever or anyone through our institutions can provide friendly connections through an agreement with anyone, here's what I'm saying right now, I'm not burdened with, Islamic, Christian country and can help Bosnia and Herzegovina in all areas of social life, we need to support such an agreement, and inside Bosnia and Herzegovina we have mechanisms by which we will be able to take care of laws not to bring something into those relations into the legal opposite, or a simple opposite. So here's what I'd suggest is that we plead this agreement and I think we should accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22019	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, will give us a brief statement. Please, there's no need. The replica of counterpart Novaković had.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22020	I would ask the chairman of the following, if you take the contract and read it will be seen that, in fact, Article 6(3) speaks of co-operation in the field of youth, but sport, etc. So, I'll tell you, if the youth team of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which everyone is playing, I'll be right there, if I need help, they'll definitely not come to us, but we'll go to them, but what you said to control in Article 7 is rare, so that means we have the right parties to agree that on the basis of common relations, it doesn't mean that we can't do what we do here. So this is a framework agreement, and further, I would say a detailed analysis and a detailed programme will be made and I think it will be exactly the place to control it. Therefore, I come from all of them, and Novaković said from the fact that really in that first preamble when it is taken into which there will be cooperation in the oil sector, I don't think we're going to be asking any questions at all. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to adopt because it has been passed by the Commission, noting that at any time this Parliament, the assembly may decide to check certain controls through the Commission, or through the already existing commission they have, and I believe that this contract should be monitored accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22021	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković. You don't answer or answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22022	I just want to say this way that we're going to support the agreement, and that we're staying with the questions we asked and we're asking the Council of Ministers to answer these questions here. So I will be, we do not dispute the need for an agreement, but please ask the questions that we have asked here and Mrs Perkanović and I are looking for an answer at the next session. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22023	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. If I may conclude the debate and ask you to give us a statement on all the contracts. It remains, therefore, an obligation for the Commission to monitor the realisation of not only, but for all contracts and for the Council of Ministers to answer these questions. Prepare to vote in the package, yes. Vote now. So I find that with 33 votes for, no one against, no one has been able to carry out, we have given consent to ratification a) the General Agreement on Economic, Investment, Technical, Cultural, Sports and Youth Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija on the reading of their citizens and foreigners, (c) the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Japan, (d) the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, (e) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina on Co-operation in the area of the right of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, f) the United Nations Convention against Corruption, g) the Convention on Cybercrime, h) the Additional Protocol on Co-Cordinishing Protocol with the Security Protocols and the Security Protocol (C). Error, please. So I realize that we have given consent to ratify these agreements and thus have obtained the conditions to move to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period from 01.06 to 31.12. 2004 – pov. Ladies and gentlemen, you know we're postponing this point three times, this is the fourth time. We cannot legally finish it without the presence of the promoter of this point, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers or Head of Intelligence, to mark it strictly. I demand today that we remove and see how easily we will be able to manage the correspondence between Parliament and the Council of Ministers and there is no other option for us to conclude this because the label is strictly verifiable. Does anyone else have a better idea? I think it's better than going in today. There's Potočnik and Ljilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22024	I have a proposal to cancel the SIPA after it acts that way. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22025	Cut what?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22026	The OSCE is to end when it treats Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22027	This isn't OSA, this is the Council of Ministers sending a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22028	Well, the Council of Ministers should be abolished when it's unserious.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22029	I'm sorry. Ljilja Milićević please. We gave the Council of Ministers a warning. Last time we had a conclusion. You know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22030	Mr. Chairman, since we know often times and about serious things to do inconclusive things, I think that taking off the agenda is the third, fourth time, and I would, I think, in fact, the best way to deal with this material that's trusted to commit to the members of the commission that's just been formed, the joint commission, means members from this home who are in the Intelligence Committee to have their report on it for the next time. In fact, if we could have any of the proponents of this material here. We chose them in that body so that they would mean on our behalf some things we decided to be some sort of buckle with that service.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22031	Just a little bit, please. We have a report from the committee that accepted this report. The misunderstanding was created for strict reasons. Because the SDP therefore asked the Party then to discuss this report publicly. We can't take it off strictly. 'Cause we didn't even put it on. So we can't break the law and the Rules of Procedure. That's why we need a promoter, so the Council of Ministers to say whether the session is closed to the public or not. That's why, that's why these dilemmas are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22032	You see, I still think that our members of the committee are competent enough for them to come out with a certain attitude next time and a particular proposal for a solution to how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22033	Well, you can't see, please. The commission passed the report. The commission can't get the tag off by law. I'm sorry, dr. Petar Kunić wants to help. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22034	I have a suggestion. I would suggest that a letter be sent to them and that all three of them from the College sign that letter. To make it stronger, to be like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-01-30-0.u22035	I beg you, we have concluded, the last conclusion of this Parliament's session has been forwarded to the Council of Ministers and told what the dilemmas have been and asked and said that there will be a point of the agenda and asked for presence. It's a relationship. Unfortunately, I can't change that. But we can't go past the law, either, because someone's gonna call us later. The only thing left is to postpone the act and turn to the Council of Ministers again to act in accordance with the law. There's no other way. ________(?) And may the first act, since the gentlemen have work to do. Here's the first next point, first next point. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why we've exhausted the agenda. I thank you for your patience and constitutional work. A memo will go to the First Point Council of Ministers. The sitting's done at 3:30.
