ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25559	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 84th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to representatives, we invited our regular guests, presidents and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Council of Europe, as well as representatives of the BiH delegation who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the UN BiH Mission and representatives of NGOs of the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. Representatives of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH are invited to attend the session to discuss their reports. I warmly welcome all present. According to the service report, I find that the session is attended by 28 representatives, 21 from the Federation and 7 from the RS. We have a quorum and we can make a full decision. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the House College session as well as the College in the extended composition, certain amendments and additions to the agenda proposals were made. That's what the club presidents met you about, and I'll remind you that the following points are included in the agenda. Sead for an amending and supplementing law pursuant to Article Avdić of the Election Act. Rules of Procedure, Request of Representative Sead Avdić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Labour and Employment of BiH under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Central Bank of BiH, with a Report from the Commission on Finance and Budget, Proposer Jelina Đurković, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget, Proponents of the SDS Club, Granting Consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to taxes on 2 income and property. The motion for a resolution is the applicant for representatives of Mr Mirsad Sipović and the Commission's report on the determination of the degree of pollution of the hydro-eco system in BiH. So you received this updated draft agenda at the outset. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25560	I'd like to thank my colleague, the chairman, I think, my colleague. With regrets that we have not had such extensive and content agendas before today, normally we support such a agenda, but I would not now like to bid on the points that appear in this agenda, which are obviously a reflection of the situation in which we are, or what is this, five weeks or four before the election. On the occasion of point 21. Request of the Party for BiH Party to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. We Rules of Procedure, in addition to this agenda, as the SDP MPs' Club under 22, at the next point behind this point, propose one item of the agenda. In fact, we find it inadmissible that this problem is not solved exactly the way it is now proposed. We support the party's proposal for BiH. We think it's very good that it came to him. However, we also know very well, and we support otherwise a common sign from the Party for BiH that the concept of responsibility here finally needs to be changed a little bit. Namely, that people are responsible for what they did as well as for what they didn't do. Support to our member 21st full support, so point 21 and the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Citizenship by Emergency Procedure, we believe that the point 22 should be complemented, which reads: "The request of the MPs of the SDP Club Prime Minister to relieve the Minister of Civil Affairs if he does not resign himself, because of the current inadequate relationship with the Law on Citizenship." I do not want to open up, I am ready for controversy and other species. I don't think there's much to explain. It is a shame that after four years, a civil worker appears as a proponent at a party conference with a law like this, and for four years he was paid to pass a law like this at the beginning of his term. Do you know that the High Representative had to extend the validity of certain legislation, to say the documents, just so that what is happening now wouldn't happen. We think that even the BiH Party will support this, i.e. we believe that the Minister of Civil Affairs himself, after this, will resign as an act of his awareness that he is the most responsible thing we are considering today. This will prove that this law is not a matter of pre-election banging, planting, etc. 3 So I will naturally, Mr. Chairman, give and therefore, we support the law, support the change. We think it can go up to 105, but we don't want to get involved, take it off the agenda, but I think it's right after that part of the agenda, right, fellow Avdić, one point like this, your smile gives me the right to think that you're going to vote just like us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25561	I would like to thank Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija for his colleague. And I meant that you were thinking of our collegiate community as an agent, not someone else. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25562	Here, although Mr. Lagumdžija in the introduction said he had no intention of making this one out of it, so to speak, the space for these pre-election promotions, calculations, calculations and so on, he did it anyway. It is not true that the resolution ministry and MPs have not tried to do this thing on many occasions, it can be checked. Unfortunately, there was no passivity for such an initiative and the necessary support in either the Council of Ministers or this Parliament. We will check today and be in a position to see if this initiative will also be supported in a procedural way. So we will be against including this agenda point proposed by Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25563	Thank you very much. No more reports. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25564	My colleagues and colleagues and the chairman, I suggest you go along with the speedy procedure and put the agenda on the table to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25565	Thank you very much. There are no more applications to discuss the agenda. I hereby conclude the debate on the agenda, and I am obliged to put the motion of Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija on the plea. I don't have it in writing here now, so if I make a mistake in the interpretation I ask you to understand that, so the requirement is that as an additional item of the agenda 22 be classified as the SDP Club's request to raise the issue of responsibility of the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, if I'm okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25566	Can you do it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25567	Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25568	So the point of the formula, I am sorry to have it written here, while delivering it, the request, I am very precise, the request of the MPs of the SDP Club to the prime minister is a procedural matter that the replacement of the minister of civil affairs unless I resign because of an inadequate relationship with the Law on Citizenship so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25569	Thank you very much. You've heard this proposal. I will now put this proposal to the plea as a complement to the agenda. Mr. Safet Halilović, Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25570	I welcome the honourable MPs, and I can only say that this well-intentioned initiative regarding the amendment of the law on citizenship and the elimination of the discriminatory provisions of Article 17, which leaves a large number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina lost, is an opportunity to lose their citizenship, I think it is a bad way to politicise it in such an impertinent way before the elections. Of course, everyone has the right to their own opinion, their own initiative. I just want to say one notor fact that is verifiable and available and shared to the media. On 25 May 1994, the Ministry of Civil Affairs sent amendments to the Law on Citizenship that requested these amendments today. The second thing is that the bill has not passed the procedure either in the Council of Ministers or in Parliament. That's already the second part of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25571	Thank you very much. The replica of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I hope it's a replica because you had the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25572	First, I didn't just give a replica to Mr. Belkić to speed up the procedure and I had a lot to say. However, since the minister said what he said I was obliged to say to Mr. Chairman, I was really encouraged by his reporting to this speaker and I thought that he would, in fact, give us an additional incentive to adopt such a law by declaring here that this law is ready to change for his resignation, for example, or something like this. However, given where Mr. Prime Minister is from, excuse me as well as the peace from where Mr. Minister is coming from, I was really briefly mistaken that he might apply his chair to a law so much needed by the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25573	Okay, thank you very much. I think we've exhausted the agenda debate. 5 The debate is closed. According to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to put this proposal to supplement the agenda as read by Zlatko Lagumdžija in the microphone. I'm putting this proposal on the table, and I'm asking the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So the proposal to supplement the agenda according to SDP's Club's request did not get the required majority. And we're moving on to the realization of the agenda. I find that 84th session of the House of Representatives has the following agenda, 1st. The adoption of the minutes from the 83rd session of the House of Representatives, 2. Agents' Questions and Answers, 3. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading, Proposer of Representative Jelina Đurković, 4. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Communication Act under Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH under the procedure of Article 104(6). Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Commission Report on Finance and Budget on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Value Added Tax Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 7. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an Agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Border Service, in the first reading, 8. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings in the first reading, Proposer Tihomir Gligorić, 9. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a proposal for the conclusion of the BiH Party Club's representative to set up a commission to investigate civilian casualties in the Municipality of Prijedor in 1992. - 1995, 10. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Opinion of Representative Filip Andrić's Opinion on the suspension of further reception of new employees and employees in all ministries until the reconstruction of authorities following October elections in October 11th. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence obtained by the International County Court for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 12. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina also in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 13. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6 14. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of road traffic security in BiH under the procedure of Article 105, 15. Sead Avdić a Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 16. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 17. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Violations under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 18. Council of Ministers' request to consider the proposal for a law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 19. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Base Act under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 20. A request from representatives Vink Zorić, ruža Sopta and Filip Andrić for the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity in BiH under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 21. Application by the party's representative for BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, as referred to in Article 104. Imprisonment, 2 / 22 Sead for a Law on Labour and Employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 104 Rules of Procedure, 23. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 24. Proposal for a drug and medical law in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 25. The draft law amending the Central Bank Act with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget, Proposer of Representative Jelina Đurković, 26. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget Proponents of the SDS Club, 27. Decision on the subject, scope and type of concession for the construction of the highway on Corridor Vc, 28. A report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Agency to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the April 2004 period. — July 2006, 29. Report by the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period 01.01. to 30.06., 30. Annual Human Rights Report in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, 31. Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with the compliance of the Criminal Procedure Act with Article 14(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. International Civil and Political Rights Pact, 32. A special report by the Ombudsman on human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with the Law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of the internal debt of the Republika Srpska and the Law on the determination and method of reconciliation of the internal obligations of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 33. Information on licences issued for the export/import of weapons and military equipment in 2005, 34. Report by the Research Commission to determine the degree of pollution of the hydroeco system in BiH, 7 35. Confirmation of the Regulation on International Activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 36. A proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Office to discuss complaints and experts in the field of public procurement, 37. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes, 38. Proposal for a resolution of MP Mirsad Sipović. Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Journal of the 83rd session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25575	I have an observation, i.e. it appears to be a technical error, i.e. on page 5 of point 8. where it is discussed at the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković on the Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Safety Act. From what is stated in the record, it was not even voted, that there was no idea what had been decided at all. It's just that it says here that you and you participated in the debate, there's no further. So, the record is missing what happened to that law. Something was supposed to say, what happened to that law, is we vote what happened, how it went, but here it is, it's gone, it's not listed anything. I'm asking him to check it out and get it straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25576	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I propose that, with this suggestion given by Mr Beriz Belkić, and on the basis of the minutes, i.e. the magnetic recording, we add this part of the record to the way it was decided at this session of the House and that, with that addition, we accept the minutes for the 83rd session of the House. I ask the representatives to prepare and declare this minutes with the 83rd session of the House with this addition. Please vote. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 35 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we accepted this addition to the 83rd session of the House of Representatives. I thank the MPs and we move on to the second item of the agenda. They are, 8 Adm.2. Agents' questions and answers Since we didn't have this item on the agenda at the last session, I'll remind you of the answers we received from the 82nd session to this one. So, the answers to the parliamentary questions were raised by Dušanka Majkić, who asked questions at the 74th session of Dom, Selim Bešlagić at the 77th session, Miloš Jovanović and Ljiljana Milićević who asked questions at the 79th session, Petar Kunić asked questions at 81st and 82st session, and Mirsad Sipović asked questions at the 82nd session of the House. I am opening the possibility of commenting on the answers that the MPs have received on the questions asked. There are no reports. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25577	I would only comment on the Central Election Commission's response to which I felt that on my parliamentary question and that was the reason, I believe it was absolutely legally unfounded and that was why I launched this House resolution. I don't want to be burdened by distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We will have the opportunity to discuss the text of the proposed resolution thoroughly. It's about the response to the answer. Another question that, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25578	There will be questions, I've already been reported and I have to respect the order. The order is according to these applications I have, Tihomir Gligorić, Mladen Potočnik, please, you had the opportunity to sign in. Here you are, Mrs. Milićević, a comment on the answer to the parliamentary question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25579	Mr. Chairman, I answered when Mr. Sipović was, but you weren't looking. And she e-mailed in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25580	It's no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25581	So my question at the 79th session was, in fact, two questions. It was related to why the Council of Ministers has not yet solved the problem of the collection of former Hidrogradia's claims, as it was obliged to conclude meetings of the Council of Ministers on the charge of these claims, and secondly why the chairman of the Council of Ministers without knowledge and the decision of the Council of Ministers sent a letter to the bank in Belgrade on 3 May asking for funds, and the funds earned by the work in Iraq, pre-war Hidrogradation. So he asked to be instructed only one of the two existing hydrobuildings. 9 I am not satisfied with the answer because at the very beginning of the answer I say that the Ministry of Finance will answer the first part of the question and no one will answer the second. So he's responsible for half the questions they're going to answer, the other one won't answer, and what they wrote is the least said is not the subject of my question and it's not the answer. They're being called to a succession. However, this is about the relationship between Iraq and BiH business entities and the demand for businesses. It's not about the means of succession. They're referring to the court. So I believe that both the first and second questions will end in court but in the BiH Court as a dispute between the two entities, because both entities are the owners of state capital. Therefore, these answers cannot pass, and especially, this time, since I suppose this is the last session of this call to say, that the best recommendation to the next convocation would be to have an hour and my questions directly and not to be exposed to whatever they're writing to be treated as an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25582	I thank Mrs. Milićević. No more comments. We're moving on to new questions, and now I'm going to read the order of reports. So, Mr. Šefik Džaferović rightly warns me that the first p-ried, please accept it, and then the next order, Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Sipović, Mr. Živković. Mr. Bešlagić is an electronic application that Branka did not record before Mr. Sipović. Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, two weeks ago, I am here in this house, although I say very rarely ask parliamentary questions, at the request of the Association of Citizens of Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia Ugor Jelah Tešanj, I have asked a parliamentary question to the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministries, to inform us what they have done on this issue, and regarding the conclusions of this House since 21.12.2005. To date, the response from none of these institutions to the BiH Parliament has come. Meanwhile, a letter has arrived to this association to all MPs. You have met the contents of this letter and I, as one of the people who has received representatives of this association, again request from the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions, to inform this Parliament and this association of what they have done after Parliament's conclusion of 21.12.2005, and if they have not done so, why have they done nothing? Otherwise, after any answer comes from these institutions, I intend, if not I in this assembly, then later surely someone before my party in the next session, perhaps I, to demand a parliamentary debate on this subject. This is a very serious problem and this is not the only problem BiH has with the rights of our citizens who have achieved in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25584	Thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25585	If Mr. Chairman can, please, Potočnik, I'd like to resign and trade places.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25586	Mr. Mladen Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25587	My colleagues and colleagues, I have a question addressed to the Council of Ministers. Why are only two new ministries being introduced in the Council of Ministers? What about the departments of education, culture and sports? What about the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Security? And when you make changes, you do it completely and meaningfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25588	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. The word is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the service to remind the Council of Ministers once again on, to provide the Domi with an answer to a parliamentary question I have asked about security workers working on national holidays, working at night, overtime and not being paid to them, while the same council of ministers and the Ministry of Finance is selectively paying off others for such a kind of work. But today I am asking the next parliamentary question. I refer this to the Council of Ministers of BiH. When will the BiH Council of Ministers examine whether there have been irregularities in the election of directors of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and to inform Ombdusmen of BiH's human rights? In addition, I will submit to you the recommendation of the Ombdusmen for Human Rights concerning the complaints of Fuad Kasumović, Ismet Suljendić from 10.02.2005, which refers to the illegal selection of directors of the Directorate for indirect taxation. He's referring to the current director of Mr. Kemal Čaušević. I note, that the Council of Ministers has been obliged to examine whether there have been irregularities in this appointment and that the institutions of the ombudusmen have been notified within a month, which until today, as far as I know it has not been done. Here I ask the service to receive my parliamentary question and the recommendation of the Ombdusmen for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25590	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25591	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Chairman, allow me to ask just one question. What has been done to date by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the conclusions of the House of Representatives from the 59th session held on 29.6.2005 and 73rd session held on 30.01.2006 and on the examination of the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the results of the resolution of the performances of the Association of Decertified Cops? At those meetings, the conclusions of the House reached 3 and 5 conclusions, which the Council of Ministers obliged to carry out within 15 days, of the House of Representatives. Since the last session, at which this issue has been discussed, for a full 7 months, I am asking the Council of Ministers to answer me if these conclusions of the House of Representatives have been realised and, if so, why have the MPs in this House not received the requested reports to date? I also deliver to you the conclusions of these two sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25592	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25593	Thank you, Chairman. Since I've asked a few, often questions and a large number of questions, I've only received a few questions from my answer. Well, this time I'm using this agenda point, in the form of questions and initiatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this time I will be concrete and give the initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Civil Affairs, to refer, by way of procedure, to the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Sport Act, which was under public debate. A full debate has been held in the resolution ministry. The minister informed me that there was material, a proposal for text, and I think after so many years, that it was okay for that law to come into parliamentary procedure... in front of this house and in front of the House of Peoples until the end of the term of office. I am therefore initiating, unless it is proposed by the resolution ministry, or the Council of Ministers, I will use my powers as an MP and I will take over, I have delivered these initiatives to my SDA club, I don't know, they haven't informed me, I probably have all of them, since they are based on all these principles of the Statute and the programme declaration, this issue is very strategically important for our youth and Malta is no less important than the Law on Higher School, Higher Education of BiH. It is our obligation of moral and responsibility of these MPs to finally give these young people, athletes some status and development of sport against all of these, what is happening in our society and ambassador, is the best sport, regardless of the whole area of our BiH affirmation and the state and youth. The second initiative and the proposal is, please, I will be very brief, is and I have received a reply from the Council of Ministers of Law on BiH's Attorney General. It is the only country that claims to be in the EU that does not have a single Law on Lawyerry, one of the fundamental laws of human rights protection. 12 We have a positive opinion from the Council of Ministers that in the procedure, we have a positive view of the OSC, we have a positive OHR position, it is in preparation with the secretary and in a drawer with the minister of justice, a gentleman who has so far not referred to the parliamentary procedure, even though it was a commitment by the Council. I also propose if someone here asks to be delivered to me and to use my right as an MP, to propose it to this Parliament, and whether Parliament will adopt it, it is again the same thing as Parliament and the political options that are participating in this government. Please, I consider it necessary at the end of the term, before the end of the term of office, we are all here, defending the rule of law and what the international community, the OHR, the OSC and all international institutions, to establish judicial reform, as an independent institution, or judicial authority as in all civilised countries of democracy, where the rule of law is fundamental and democracy and prosperity, I pray in this context, since we have considered the Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and as competent institutions and supported certain things that they do in judicial reform, me as an MP and as a citizen, cannot be kidnapped that most of our judicial system continues to be funded by donations of the international community. The state cannot continue to allow exclusively the financing of courts, prosecutors and all judicial institutions, depending solely on the international community. Thank the international community for all the donations, for all the material aids, in an educational sense, and that's good and I hope that they will continue to ugly in BiH, but this country and this BiH must make one long-term strategy, a stable financing and a creation of material-technical conditions for the development of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25594	Mr. Sipović, on the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25595	And third, this is an initiative, please, an initiative, in this sense, I propose an initiative to the Constitutional and Legislative Commission, this home, and the House of Nations, that together with the Ministry of Justice and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, we make one public debate, as was a respected colleague, they have made out of the Communication Commission, they have made one public debate, calling on everyone to call on this problem, the next strategic issue for the next period, to take political views to address this problem for the benefit of the citizens and the state of BiH. These are the initiatives, and please, I will finish, I will be very specific, I have no right here, I will initiate myself, but I have no right under Article 105. I will probably chair the Constitutional and Legislative Commission here, so I will probably initiate this joint meeting with my colleague and ministry, about this point and debate. And the Secretary of Justice is here. I hope that by next session, there will be a public debate. And, please, in the end, I want to say, to report this home, to give a certain passionful attention, an initiative for citizens, peoples, and how you will and BiH the strategic issue of our status in the NATO Partnership for Peace. I must inform you, I am as an MP for the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, sent to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I was there from 9 July to 13 July, both in NATO's Chief Staff and in Parliament and in the region as a whole, we were bigger.(?). The NATO strategy was being discussed, the introduction continued, in addition to taking active participation, I asked one strategic question to NATO leaders, Secretary General Sh... B... I asked a question and I begged, I lobbied, 13
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25596	Please, a little more patience, not me representatives please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25597	Like Simon and the others, Chief of Staff and these others, I had the impression that, and so I'm asking certain questions and initiatives. Please, Parliament of BiH, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, that in the coming period of the act... since it is the NATO Summit in Riga(?) in the 11th month, I asked from an open invitation, an application, a lobbying for BiH, for the interest of our country, to have a more flexible relationship with BiH in joining the Partnership for Peace. In this context, I seek, initiate, the first of the highest authorities of this country, which is the BiH Parliament, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to take up a political resolution or platform to try to isolate the summit in Riga, that is to ask for a political stance, that BiH be admitted to the Partnership for Peace. I continue to ask the Council of Ministers also, which has a significant role in this, first of the BiH Presidency, to also take its position and to initiate, the Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to give me an answer at which stage and lobbying, and how certain the situation for BiH to finally enter the Partnership for Peace and afterwards to be a full member of NATO. In order not to further elaborate, I ask these competent institutions to send me as MPs until the next session of the report and I urge Dom to take a political stance, or possibly some resolution, if not, then I will also exercise my parliamentary right, constitutional law, that I will offer this resolution to this House and also initiate the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I apologize, I felt the need at the end of my term to at least update these very strategic issues and nothing costs us, no material resources, no financial resources, except for our activity, creativity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25598	All right, thank you, Mr. Sipović, here's how we've had, all together and representatives of understanding, here we go. I also thank the MPs. Now we have Mr. Živković. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25599	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to appeal to article 127. The Rules of Procedure, used the presence of the minister of civil affairs and asked him if he may remember that two years ago, not from Milorad Živković, but from this parliament, a request for a census of residents, apartments and agricultural goods was sent. That....let's say a discriminatory way even went from this Parliament to the amendment phase, so after the Constitutional and Legal Committee passed, after the first vote had passed, between the first and second votes went to the competent ministry, and to this day we have not received a feedback on what is happening to that law. 14 I would ask the minister to tell us what is going on with this law and, if he knows, tell us what is going on with the funds that have been set in the budget this year for this activity of 30,000 marks, whether any of them have been done and how this activity is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25600	I thank Mr. Živković. Whether the minister wants to respond or in writing. We are informed from the minister that he will answer this question in writing to Mr. Živković. Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25601	Thank you, Mr. President, I will not discuss the strategic issues I will discuss about that life, and I could take advantage of the presence of the minister here, so I will give him oral advice and the Council of Ministers a written question of the following content: Since the authorities at the primary school in Bugojn have abolished three departments that have worked according to the curriculum and programme, the Croatian curriculum and the Croatian language, which are intended to do by the Council of Ministers on this and the competent minister in order to ensure the students returned to the Bulgarian education in Croatian. The question I'm thinking very specifically, clearly, and I'm asking as soon as possible for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25602	I thank Mr. Andrić. I don't have any more counseling questions and answers here. So, Mr. Ibrahim Đedović has also delivered the issue in writing to the Council of Ministers, so it will be forwarded. I conclude the second item of the agenda, these are parliamentary questions and answers. Moving to the third point, that's A.3. Report please see if we have a quorum here? How much? I'm asking the service to, uh, set a five-minute break just. And I'm asking the services to invite the MPs to the session. _Other Organiser Ad.3. Commission Report College on Efforts to reach an Agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Law in second reading, Proposer: MEP Jelina Đurković)
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25608	Now we go again for, against, abstention and valid votes against as usual. If he accepts the report, there won't be enough votes against it, the law has fallen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25609	Okay. Thank you very much. You heard the secretary's explanation. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So he has a general majority, no entity. Now we move on to the second round of voting. Only those who are against the report vote. Stand by. Vote now. So we don't have a two-thirds majority against and the Commission's Financial and Budget Report on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act has been adopted and the law is not adopted. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Border Service (first reading) You've received a report of an agreement within the College. Inside Kolgi, there was no agreement. Now we move on to the second round of voting. Get ready to vote, you're all voting. Vote now for the Proposal for a Law amending the State Border Service Act. So the draft law amending the State Border Service Act in the first reading has a general majority, no entity. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Only those who are against it vote. Stand by. Vote now. So there's not enough two-thirds majority against it. The law was passed in the first reading. 17 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25612	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I have to say that normally I won't support this going to another reading for one simple reason, and that's what I asked at the last session at home and I didn't, I got an answer that I'm not happy with. The change in the name of the State Border Service is a much more serious issue than the formal one. I asked the Proposer to agree, because we know in which way we came to this name and this service. Obviously, the promoter had no will to do that part of the job. I think we need to give time between the first and second readings to try to agree on this bill. Otherwise, I don't think we're going to get the law or the way we're proposing right now it just wouldn't make sense that, I'd ask the chairman to withdraw his proposal to make a statement today about another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25613	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić here you are, so Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25614	So we're about to go right now, this one we're saying about another reading for a few reasons. Of course, I fully agree with you, Mr. Novaković, that changing the name is not just a purely formal question. That's exactly why I think you should support him to change his name. But let me remind you that this Joint Defence Commission and, for defence and security policy, we have a debate on this law and we have a report, at least I have an account, which states that the Joint Commission unanimously accepts the text of the Proposal for a Law amending the State Border Service Act and that the law is necessary to pass. And it seems to me that it's a good signal for us because we have this joint service, in the Joint Committee of MPs from your party, a good, uh, signal that we can today, believing that the matter is harmonised, go to another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25615	Replica Mr. Novaković. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25616	Mr. Belkić, I am one of the members of this Joint Commission and I know well how this law has been passed on the Joint Commission. So, this law was passed, of course, business-regular, business-regularly without any vote by members of the commission of the Serb people. So it's absolutely undeniable, but what I'm saying is that no agreement has been reached is what you're talking about. Therefore, no agreement has been reached and members of the Serb people have been against it on that commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25617	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25618	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I have just wanted to avoid this trap. It's not a problem, either, if you already know it won't pass, but the goal is to find the possibility of the law being passed. This isn't a formal change. I'd like it if the Council of Ministers worked because I'm watching, this is Parliament. It is not possible for someone to say that the amendments to this law do not require special financial resources. So all you know is what it means to write instead of DGS, change your uniform and write State Border Police. Who's being faked here? I'm not talking about MPs, I'm saying, when we get proposals like that, I'm not voting for it. I want the citizens to know just how much, you know what we've done to reform, reform the DGS. How much money was invested? Well, I guess we have to be responsible for those who pay these projects to say how much that change will cost. And to go to another reading, I warn you it won't pass. Let people think, to reach a political agreement. Here's nothing to go to another reading unless there's a mood to, and there's no passing that law. So please don't make a statement. Let's talk more about this proposal. It would make sense if I were to ask the Secretary-General how much is this going to cost? Is there any means? Has anyone dealt with the budget as much as amending the law is essentially costing citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is this the most necessary now to pay exactly not to write the DGS, but to the state police. And that means the point. And you know when DGS is agreed on what legal proposition is in control of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What kind of conversations are we having? You can't do this in a hurry. This is an important thing. Thank you very much. I won't, I won't, not that I won't, but I'm not for it to go to another reading. If there is a majority for second reading, unfortunately, it will be a negative result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25619	Okay. I'm closing the debate. Obviously in my second reading at the same session, unless there's a majority mood in that direction, I don't want to force it, because I see this, I see that there are significant reserves to, that we're going into another reading today. We passed the law in our first reading and move on to the next item of the agenda. 19 So ambition, the intention was to finish the job today, and if there's no readiness, we won't. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25620	I don't think this is a good practice to get out an MP and in some way, Malta doesn't threaten Parliament here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25621	He's a member of the College, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25622	Well, he is a member of the College, but Mr. Špirić really doesn't make sense. I'm asking if we can get to the bottom of this, so we'll see if there's any support or no support.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25623	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go. Well, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25624	Your Honor, I was just about to say at a correct gesture to the chairman. I think this might be a precedent for how it should work. Namely, it wants to take advantage of today's lack of a majority and Belkić, as known for it, wants a revote. When, when we have discussed changes to the Constitution, when it will be accepted, we can never think of accepting that there is no critical mass in the Constitution if we work in this way. This insistence on revote. And we're not meeting for the first time with this. And therefore, of course, the chairman has certain powers and I welcome his intention to postpone this for the next session. I think this is correct, and this is how we should work in the future, and more and more of these points of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25625	Thank you very much. It used to be, a replica by Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25626	I don't insist on revote, I insist on the House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure. And I am against all variants of the state hostage of this Parliament using well-known mechanisms. So I am for the Rules of Procedure, to be working on the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, but I am against the abuse of voting mechanisms in this Parliament and the blockade of all processes and, of course, I am asking for a vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25627	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mr. Sipović. Please, for a moment. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25628	I'm going to say very briefly, dear colleague Belkiću, I don't remember for these four years that in this way we joined the same session of the plea and in the second reading. We have always had a significant will so far when it was to be stated in the second reading immediately at the same session after the first reading. And this is the first time we haven't had it, and this is the first time you've insisted on it when we don't have it. This is the first time. I guess you checked, you saw the discussions, or you didn't check. So I'm staying with this position and I support the chairman's position not to plead today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25629	Mr. Sipović, then Mr. Živković. Please keep in mind time and what to discuss now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25630	I'd like to express my position and replicate a little with my colleague Belkić. I really don't want to, or feel like a hostage to anything. I think that colleagues have made clear the reasons if we are going to set the right goal for this parliament to discuss in a democratic procedure that we can reach the final adoption of the law, and then you, too, have made a very correct proposal by the chairman of Dr. I'm Špirić of voting on whether or not someone's going to abuse the House. I don't feel like it, sir, but if you counted the votes so as to estimate that the law would go past the interest, some and have some of this stuff, then I doubt that you would react the same way that you had a smaller circle in your party for BiH club and your proposal didn't... existed. I am extremely correct, tolerable, regardless of what I think to Mr Džaferović and you, my club to support one dialogue, one democracy, and therefore, with my resolution, I am credible and I seek the support of the entire Parliament, not some political parties and these things. I find your proposal appropriate, although I highly appreciate you, I believe that the colleague Kunić who proposed it does not want us to be hostages and to postpone for the next one to adopt the College, as we have adopted these, most of these points. Please, as an MP, I find this to be my most correct attitude and well-being.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25631	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Živković, then Križanović, then Moranjkić. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25632	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to my fellow Members and fellow Members for this session to end up in a tone in that atmosphere in which we have worked for the last four years so as not to appeal to the Rules of Procedure and business opportunities. In this Rules of Procedure, I will say all sorts of options and I would ask Mr Belkić to give up in such a way that we end these agenda points, since after that there are other agenda points that might have happened in a similar way, and then there would be a question of the continuation of this session. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25633	Thank you. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25634	So I think we've come to one to say a phase of unnecessary confrontation, because you see if we have a situation now that the president of a club, and I think two clubs are asking me to move a plea, I honestly would not want to take part in a decision that would oppose such a one-will. And that is why I fully accept this suggestion that in the second round, that is, in the second reading, we declare ourselves at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25635	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find this really unnecessary. Secondly, I believe that all finalisations if different opinions and opinions appear in Parliament not to say and suggestions that they are finalised, not now. And I think your first proposal was in place. You give, and those people who think you shouldn't, they'll express themselves with red and the matter is solved. If we don't come to a solution here, it doesn't lead to anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25637	Thank you very much. There's no polimizing. Please, yes. I have a concrete proposition in mind. __________(?) [[not enabled is not understood]] So, please let me finish my word. You haven't got a chance to ask for a break yet. So, I absolutely remind you that we've never had a problem with this kind of statement and there's always been a mood, there's been a mood tested if there was any, we've approached the vote. And why now in the last session, do we question this one? I don't think it's right. In the end, we finished our work today because there was a law on the agenda in the first reading. And I've done my business what, along with you, was on the agenda. This was a test of goodwill, it wasn't a good will for another reading, and I, as chairman, am not going to force that second reading today, I'm telling you right now. And that's how we end this agenda point because we finish it. And now we're going to the eighth point of the agenda, and if anyone wants a word now, they can get it. We're going back to work. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25639	The SDS Club is looking for a half-hour break. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25640	At the request of the SDS Club, I'll set a break for 30 minutes. Now, we're leaving at 12 o'clock and five minutes, please. [[pause]] We're going to the eighth day's work, that's Ad.8. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the settlement of commitments under the account of old foreign exchange savings (in the first reading – Proposer: Agent Tihomir Gligorić)
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25643	Ladies and gentlemen, that's right, this is correct what you said, but I'd beg for an understanding that we say a few words about it, so here I am as a promoter. Since the time has passed, meanwhile in public and at the same time the association also had a lot to say about the amendments and additions to the law on the return of old foreign currency savings. It certainly deserves attention to at least look back at something or say something about it in the discussion. Meanwhile, the Council of Ministers, at least individually, had different statements in the public, so that the issue should be resolved. At the same time, Minister Ljerka Marić also spoke to this House. By the way, I would like to visit that the Finance and Budget Committee has asked the Council of Ministers to finally get that opinion so far, and we haven't gotten it yet, and although it's been more than two months since we've been working on the Rules of Procedure within the Commission. In the meantime, they opted for this, here's the approach to speaking to MPs, addressing Kolelgi individually, together to express their opinion on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of old foreign currency savings. Meanwhile, others, individual ministries at the entity level, were involved, and then there was the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We as Parliament, at least I have no information that we asked them to provide us with that kind of information. I don't know if it isn't the College, maybe asked them, or if it's on a warrant, they can tell us anyway, here and I'm glad that she came, Minister Ljerka Marić, who should certainly give a few answers to these questions that I'm asking here right now. 23 To whom they addressed, for which reasons, whether it was ordered by the ministry, an opinion was ordered on this law and why, in the meantime, within the time period that we had, they did not react but chose the silences of the administration and then when it had already come to the assembly procedure, when we opened that debate, we came to the situation that we had simply received an avalanche of their various letters in which, in fact, all of this, which we here in Parliament and in, I mean our own committees, had been practically challenged. It's very serious because if we're in charge, and we are in accordance with the Constitution, we're in charge of laws. If we bring them into the public's interest, which is too much of ours, our obligation and our relationship, then in that case, if we look at the target group, then that target group isn't even small, even though we shouldn't harm any man by law. It is 1,166,000 people who, on this basis, will be affected or the norm will be real and good for them, and then we will find that interest between Parliament and our citizens, because the law is passed in their interest as a target group. We know that so far they've said and expressed themselves negatively about the laws so far. That is why Minister Marić should answer how suddenly we have received different opinions from different institutions, who asked for it and why they are so negative and exclusive that these amendments and amendments to the law are not good and that they cannot be supported. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court made it clear, the Human Rights Department, that this law would violate human rights. And in that case, I think that we need to approach far more broadly than we have done so far on the proposal of the Council of Ministers who, in fact, wanted to respect the deadline rather than essentially solve the problem. But it doesn't matter if we don't criticize them. We have changes and additions that are in some way in line with the Association for the Return of Old Foreign Savings of BiH citizens and diaspora. Although they are not happy about it either, they thought it would take a five-year period of three years and that a quality and good government could solve this issue together with representatives of the international community, the World Bank, the IMF and so on. But they made a concession. So it can't be said that it wasn't different opinions, so when it comes to the deadline. Of course, a number of other options have been offered to keep it all out of cash, so that this is not what we're talking about right now. If we have been told by the Constitutional Court that human rights have been violated and if the Association of Old Foreign Savings of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I shorten their name not to be angry because it repeats itself many times, it announces that it will start to complain to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And individually, individual applications are already there and they're being dealt with positively. Tomorrow, instead of $300,000 that Bosnia and Herzegovina should provide, and I have offered a solution as to how, I will offer a fourth solution today, it will certainly pay a lot more with interest and 3,000,000,000 will grow to 9,000,000, which Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to pay. And according to the verdicts, the courts know how to execute. There aren't any deadlines like in law when we're now negotiating for three years, five years, 13 years, 39 years, like we had before. You should think, when we're passing a law, we're actually much further away from looking at it today than we're looking at it under our feet and under our laps. Because it's not a good solution that's happened so far, and now this is an honorable solution to that problem. We got the information, speaking of finance, yes, said Mr. Kozarić, governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank, that they have 450,000 thousand first, but today it fell to $340,000,000 to be hired to return the old foreign currency savings. This means that in this case we can fix these deadlines that we have said, and at the same time 24 I propose and I pray that we have in mind how this problem can be resolved to ask the World Bank for a loan from the IMF of not knowing, a billion and per euro and thus resolve this. It will be the best project in Bosnia and Herzegovina because money will be there at various times. First, if people aren't going to raise all the money, the second one is going to buy factories from their money, it won't happen now that their money is being abused by those who aren't old foreign currency savings, and for their money they become owners of privatisation. That they will surely send people a message because these people in the diaspora are related to them, that they will invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One crackdown on the fact that today in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a new savings to say 4 billion, so they joked a little bit from the association, they said well if we waited 15 years, now let's give us back the 4 billion, because we have to pay back 2.5.3 billion. So there's a lot more to saving. Let's go back and let these new ones wait a year or five, or 13 years. And then the minister says no, it's private property. Well, I guess this is a private matter, too, when it comes to these people who wait so patiently, starve, can't be treated and slowly, and surely die. That's why it would be good for us to look at it further because I feel like we're often talking and we're burdened with power right now. I mean executive power, I mean Council or Council of Ministers, or if we had changed constitutional reforms, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been without distinction as we called it. Now we're burdened with this power, and she's an incompetent government, that's what I've been saying before, and I don't want anyone to blame me if she's going to support my proposal to say it, but now you've pissed me off. Don't, I keep saying that. This executive power has no ability to find, and some new power after the October elections, I believe that three months will be making reports about the movement, or funding under these changes today when we adopt this law as well as how money is realised, six months, yearly and have mechanisms to control this process in the community to take credit with the World Bank and to come from the international community and help us, because we take projects that don't fertilize money, but simply we lose through these projects because of our various incompetent moves, and Parliament has often verified, ratified, etc. things so far. If we did so, then we would come into a whole new situation in which we could surely support changes and supplement this law. Because I'm going back to the minister and I'm glad she's here, it would be good if all the Council of Ministers were also at the head with Mr. Terzić to give seriousness and importance to this. I'm glad, Mr. Chairman, that you gave me your word and you didn't make it possible, no one interrupted me, and I thank my colleagues and colleagues. These people of ours, our citizens have been waiting 15 years and it would be incorrect not to let go of the debate when it comes to their patience with regard to our MPs as obligations that today we must arrive who knows where and so on. And that would be more of a reason for us to open this debate seriously. Another dyspression. Bosnia and Herzegovina as an unfortunate country, look through history, it has failed every time. Why? Because, once upon a time, today, the people of heaven have also trampled and changed something to that paradise, but those citizens don't care about such a country at all. Because the attitude towards that citizen is such that he doesn't care. No matter how I go through this or what I have no reason to defend it because nothing before was right. And now we can get into a situation where a million and 116 thousand people who revealed two days ago what they were going to do, that they would block the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know what that message is. Well, he's got the police on the citizens. It's not good for that power to go to the police on the citizens. When it came to Milošević, the police on the citizens, and this is a democratic possibility for citizens to eat. It's the same as Miloševićev. She's not democratic. So look how fast we get there. Police on the people. Well, if you're kidding, pal, I appreciate that. But I'm afraid if the government takes it. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25644	Mr. Gligorić, please don't comment with the other MPs right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25645	All right, thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's why it would be good to not only that, but to let these people do the same. It's up to them. There are, we're making so many laws, four, five, but none of us are good. Wait, are we wrong, or are you something, maybe you're not real, or are we actually not real people? That is why we should share this information, right here in Parliament, to say what you think both the President of the Assembly and the Chairman of the Management Board. Now proposals are being offered to seek compromise. Let's go for eight years, let's go for 10 years. And where was it when we were in the debate and when we opened the issue in the Finance and Budget Committee. Why didn't we get the amendments? Mrs. Ruža Sopta has tabled an amendment and he is respected. We have here the President of the Finance and Budget Commission, Honorable colleague Ljiljana Milićević, who understands himself in his work and as a financier, as well as as as an MP, so let her also say because it was often the return of the ball to the Commission who, in my opinion, completely finished her job. And that's why I'd like to ask that we finish this job fine today in the right way, which is by voting. So I'd like to ask, is the minister out somewhere? And there's, well, well. Asked, I believe that she
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25646	Please make the requests you have already made, you don't have to repeat them over and over again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25647	I don't know if it's all written down, so it would have been quite answered, because you know the one who comes to answer, he says everything that's made sense, and you know what they've figured out, Mr. Raguž. He says Gligorić was delivered by Dr. Tihomir Gligorić's unacceptable point. Now if that's the answer in the sense that or not, and imagine now, look at these journalists, that you now come to Mr. Raguž, Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Špirić, I also, Mr. Avdić, in front of the press in front of the camera and what that poor leader asks you to say no. Well, the show's going down, man. That's why, Madam Minister, you have to answer, not to fail the show. Fair enough, or let's take whatever you want. That is why I would like to get as an MP who has proposed amendments and additions to the Law arguments because it is simply unacceptable that I, as a proposing, offer so many facts, arguments, of course using experts of financial, legal, using the association, because as an MP, I have to work with associations with everyone, not just you, but necessarily with others. In that case, we offer such an avalanche and you don't have three exclaimers, or shouters. Because here you justify yourself in some way, you did this, you did what you did and what you did. As a result of what do we have? We have a dissatisfaction of a million and 116 thousand people. Well, that's to make you panic. And that is why besides the Central Bank, they want to block both goods from Slovenia and Serbia, Invest Bank of Belgrade, which took the money and did not pay back, as well as Slovenia did not return it. And here's the problem, of course, when business banks are blocked, there's a collapse in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what's gonna happen. We figured out that we were going to the elections for 30 days and that I was going to the community of some or some village and I was telling my story about my program as best. And in the meantime, on the other hand, you have a campaign that they've announced will lead, block, and there's a police strike, there's no problem, and they'll return the eggs and what. So you will be more important, you 26 will be faces, you will be what this society needs, not me and the politicians others. We'll go somewhere in the seal, something that doesn't work in the interest of the citizens. If we look at it as Parliament, then Mrs Fatima Leho, whom I appreciate and respect, we will make a positive decision and support this law. I'm looking at Mr. Sipović now, and I'm looking at you right now from the SDA, and you know that I love you especially, of course, so the other day on the board we were talking about a crackdown, says – the SDA must be open, says Mr. Sipović. Well, I said, of course, it needs to be open. If I go in, or I don't know who in it, because if it isn't, then it's a private party. Let's say Sulejman Tihić. Private.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25648	Please, Mr. Gligorić, hold on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25649	Of course, that's where I was wrong, and I apologize. But I'm going back to Mr. Sipović, I'm not getting away with it. Says Mr. Sipović
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25650	Only if it's related to
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25651	It's about the dot, so it's all about me. Mr. Sipović has launched a resolution, the last item of the agenda, it may have to be the first, but there is no connection in which the constitution, human rights, international conventions on human rights and freedoms is being violated. The Convention on Political Rights and Civil Political Rights of the Pact is being violated. The Ombusmen for Human Rights said about the Foreign Savings Act that human rights were violated, the Constitutional Court said. You, Mr. Sipović, have studied the Convention on Human Rights well. I am also very interested in your opinion as a respected lawyer and as an MP who started here and I have to go back to the SDA for one more second, I said Mr. Sipović is a nucleus of democracy in the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25652	Please stick to the agenda. I'm really gonna take your word for it. No, I've been tolerating really, I mean, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25653	I respect that. So I would ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am to tell you somehow relieved, simply many have said that they will support this part of the story that I was talking about when it comes to caring for citizens and some others who think they're saving the budget won't be able to spend money, and that the World Bank and the IMF are ordering them to, so that the IMF and the World Bank will finance their own projects, not our own. They'll be against it. That's why I'm relaxed and that's why, but I appeal to your conscience that we take this really seriously. I apologize for one of my jokes I made in the form of dyspression, but believe me, I can squirm here and soak up like last time, so they told me all kinds of things. Here today I decided that we are doing it in a relaxed manner 27 to pass the law and it will be the best message to bring in the first reading, move on to the second reading, and that these citizens say this is the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25654	Thank you. Business intervention by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25655	.... And Ponović, I apologize for the technical problems, since my colleague Gligorić finally mentions some joke and a desire for relaxation and a relaxed atmosphere because it is full of joke and public work and a journalist who may not even know how to remind my colleague Gligorić today with these jokes and in my desire for relaxation, I have a need to remind only that my colleague Gligorić belongs to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25656	Okay. Thank you very much. We have the next order. First, he was Mr. Potočnik, whom he does not have, then Mr. Sipović's replica. Replica. Here you go, Mr. Sipović, replica. We know how long it lasts, no more replicas, no more time-overs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25657	Then I'll get back to you later, okay? Mr. Gligorić a short replica. Thank you for your compliment, and I also sincerely believe that you are the same conscientiously and properly acting as MPs. Thank you for your compliment while your compliments from the individuals in my party will have, cause another contrast, and if so. The vast majority of the SDA party's membership that has the democratic goals of programming will come at the time to do so. Please, as for this when my colleague Gligorić calls me and as a member of the Legislative Commission on Finance and Budget, I have always tried to find certain solutions and when I gave a vote for the law that was to come on foreign savings, and here was the conclusion, we should look here to respect the decision of the Commission on Human Rights of the Constitutional Court, which he declared unconstitutional and ordered Parliament to come to a blockade and then I considered it credible both for the executive and for this, so I spoke to my colleagues, gentlemen of the Association of Old Foreign Savings, that it would be good for you to get any law, and then in the procedure for 60 days we will go to certain changes and additions. And so I am in that belief. However, I am now, since I am credible, now I have, now is quite another connotation. Now the Council of Ministers and no one will make any proposals, compromise solutions to find compromise solutions with humans. I essentially support the amendments and additions to the law to be credible, I also call on my colleagues from the SDA Club and they have concluded so. Please, if that's how it is, there's a stenogram because here's Mr. Špirić, here's Džaferović and you were. We're ours. You asked the same gentlemen to meet us. As an MP who trusts me and as a member of the SDA, I have the trust of the one, the moral obligation to represent the interests of the citizens who gave me the right to vote. And I will represent the interests and parties, but here, please, announce citizens protest and we as MPs cannot disobey such serious proposals. In the context, please, I am only 28 what, I have always told my esteemed colleague Gligorić at the Commission, I am keeping the reserve according to the deadline, but I appeal to you, don't be a serious problem and to show Parliament's credibility and seriousness, all the MPs, all the political parties that this, before whom this problem is expressed, which can be really negative and for the public to hear, that a compromise solution has been found and that we try to make one change and complement to this which would be implemented. I also respected the international community's suggestion that a small-time state could come into a very difficult financial situation, but this one, and I also appreciated and supported it and I will always support not to come into the interest of the state institution functioning. But please, here's black - white whoever plays the price-white, where there's no compromise solution and where we should vote for it, it leads to such crucial solutions that are not good for the citizens, nor for the people, nor for the state's interest, so that we pretend, and you're right, if I'm talking about human and electoral rights violations by political parties and I'm asking for support from you MPs, normally that I'm going to be credible in favour of human rights here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25658	All right, Mr. Sipović, use your replica, please, and help me. Here, I'm really trying, say it, finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25659	Here, let me finish the thought. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're very tolerant, but I've been a little bit longer, but I think
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25660	Suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25661	I suggest that we try to find with the promoters to take a break or something to do, try to find with the people who came here, find some compromise solution that would really be acceptable, and I ask you also to find objective reasons for this House to accomplish its function and unfortunately not to achieve something that would not be good for you both for our country and for these things. I suggest a brief break to the motionary if he can ask, to try to find a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25662	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25663	I'm just holding off on the deadline and the Minister of Finance
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25664	We'll hear from the minister. Please let this one, and she says this one, what she thinks about this law, so I'll give her my word. Here you go, Mrs. Marić. They didn't get the word. 29 When it is a business, Filip Andrić is a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25665	I think at last session, we finished the debate on this law, we held a vote, and there was a consensus. No, it didn't happen. It didn't happen. We have a vote left on the Rules of Procedure. So I don't see any reason to open a debate like this. Nothing, especially like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25666	I feel mandatory, after this long of calling, say a few words if you'll let me, really. You've used my name 15 times before, which I've heard, and what I don't count on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25667	Here you go, Mrs. Marić. I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25668	I'm really not going to sexise with you, I'm not an agent, and I can just say, repeat the official position of the Council of Ministers, which was carried out on paper in an act called the opinion that the Finance and Budget Commission has asked of us by procedure of how all other laws have been handled. What I also have to tell you is, after the adoption of this law as we passed it, we did everything as the State Department of Finance and the vault that was in our obligation. There was only one part of the liabilities left on the entities that they could not complete for various reasons. In the meantime, I also spoke to the gentlemen of the association and I told them in a way that, in the meantime, the House of Peoples had reached one conclusion that they had asked to find other ways of funding related to foreign savings. In this way, on this basis, we have tabled a proposal to the entities and the Administration for indirect taxation related to finding new sources of funding. The state does not manage a single account itself. So the security of the savings that will start paying off, that the bonds will be charged from the single account is in Article 23. A law that speaks of foreign exchange savings. And I was telling you that the state is seriously showing its intention, the state entities are showing a serious intention to pay off the savings in the way that it was specified in Article 23 of the state level, external debt, internal debt, foreign savings is paid. By this law, we would have allowed it to mean that if Republika Srpska in the National Assembly passed a Law on the ratification of savings to be paid by 100 marks this year, why entities and remains, by the year of those thousand marks, why the entities were also ready and that the bonds were issued in 31.3.2008. So safe, chargeable market bonds that would be purchased by commercial banks that expressed their intention in the gauges as we proposed them up to 13 years by accepting the repair and amendment addressed to interest during the period in which it was not covered. We have a duty to behave equally. This government, the previous government in which also some people sitting here today were ministers and who did not end this issue and the future power to treat all people equally, to avoid rebuilding houses, to return them back, to saving the same right to return flats, houses and savings. This is just the rest of it. The way it's left so far. So what we have received as the Council of Ministers and, ultimately, this House, we have completed the return of savings in all other ways. Tomorrow from the sale of Telekom, tomorrow from the return to giving in some nature, 30 business premises, etc. It's on the entity. You always ask when the board of directors sits when we share funds when we talk about almost all the laws – what do the entities say? For this, I have received written consent from an entity in which they very clearly state what would happen to the budgets, no matter who comes to power. The difference of 87 million annuity is the difference of 500 million first annuity in the Federation's billion budget, in the RS of a billion is visible we really need to do everything to make this possible up to 13 years, to make it more favourable, to make the interest ultimately count, to make it visible and to be marketable. Now in this time really, these days would be very, in the end it would actually be impossible to give any other measure. We need to wait to see how much income this year from VAT, we need to wait to see what our GDP is going to be this year, and then in that case see if it's really possible to fix these things. But other than this obligation, the state has a commitment to both war damage and unpaid pay. It all falls on the back of taxpayers. The verdict on war damage isn't over yet and she'll come for payment. We need to put all these rights in the same plane. So the Council of Ministers, with the consent of the entity governments, has given the written consent to this act such a position, counting that the state has the right to fiscal survival and that our citizens have the right to become equal finally to them within the time limit that is the fastest possible in these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25669	Thank you very much, Minister, so we must know that according to the conclusion of the House of Peoples, the time has been left for the Council of Ministers to analyse all the elements of the additional, and no one can claim that 13 years is an optimal deadline because serious analyses and calculations appear. Up to 13, but from 5 years and 8 years, there's a big difference compared to 13. It means a lot to people who are waiting here, and that clear answer isn't offered. So it's always speculated until 13. And the agents' interventions, I'll finish the debate, because I have business interventions. I wanted to open an argument about the importance of the law. As a promoter, we heard the minister's answer. We had an argument last time. We are now required to declare ourselves by the Rules of Procedure on the situation when the College has failed to reach agreement on the law. I see this initiative as an initiative to change the law as the realization of the conclusion of the House of Peoples, to seek additional instruments and mechanisms to meet people. Let the MPs figure it out today, and that's it. Don't, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25670	not understood is not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25671	There isn't, like this. Before that, I'll give my word to everyone. There's no replica. Mr. Potočćnik, you did give up or. Go ahead. Everyone's gonna get their word now. Well, you're, uh, don't abuse me for giving you my word at first, really as a proposer. Mr. Potočnik. You'll get your word. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25672	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this Parliament has worked less successfully this four years, and you, as chairman, have both had a certain level and mode of work. What is happening in the last half hour, listening to Mr Gligorić and Sipović, we are starting to turn this parliament into a circus, not a Parliament. So I ask you to run this session, you know how much anyone can speak, you know what order it is, what procedure it is, and to be effective and responsible for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25673	Thank you, I intervened with everyone, this one I'm trying to really keep that level. Mrs. Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25674	Mr. Chairman, actually Mr. Gligorić means he's called me several times, and otherwise I want to, so I signed up for the discussion. I will briefly, just to remind you, for the sake of the public and all of these people here I won't be as much as Mr Gligorić has spoken to him because, since the man himself says he's not on the list, I can't say it's pre-election marketing, and someone might call me for it eventually. I want to say that, for the sake of truth, Mr Gligorić delivered a proposal for amendments and amendments to the law in 2405, calling for the conclusion of the House of Peoples which the chairman has now quoted. What I'm saying is that as a commission, since the Council of Ministers is not a legislator, that's when we sent them and asked for an opinion. I must remind you that we have held a committee session, since we have made it clear that this Bill is going on 104th, held 05th of July, and that by 05th of the Council of Ministers, the letter of opinion on this, or any position, that we had not been present at the committee's meeting from the Council of Ministers. Call, don't call, people didn't feel they needed to come. When the alarm bell rang. The alarm zvon at the Council of Ministers rang when we got an opinion from them, which, gentlemen, was 25.07. That's when they remembered. So when they saw it was all over. And before that, when the World Bank heard that the Commission had passed the amendment and the addition of the law to Mrs. Sopta's amendment, people found it appropriate to come and warn us correctly why it was not good that the commission had already passed that. So the commission passed before the meeting at home. I've had a conversation with people and then we've heard it's internal with the current one, so this is how the internal debt so far and the external debt obligation, gives us a budget burden, an entity 16%, so that with this law implementation, we'll have a 25-30% burden. What I'm saying is that all this talk now of the Council of Ministers is an ex-wise mind. If they knew all this, they should have known it all in time, they should have dragged us around the halls before the board and warned you not to accept this for that and for that reason, and not to wait for it to go away so now you're giving a lecture here. As for the warning by Mrs Ljerika Marić, that for God's sake and entity governments stand in this opinion. What does that mean? So I wasn't convinced by the Council of Ministers, but now I need him to say, you know, these entities are very smart to say that this can't go. I think the obligation to the old foreign savings, which is less and less each day by natural selection and simply years of age, is that the obligation of all equals and less important is that of entities or Bosnia and Herzegovina. 32 Secondly, I will repeat what I keep saying, I think, the way we treated this category of people speaks most of ourselves and represents us in Europe and in the world taking care of our people and how much we respect them and how we want to reconcile our legal obligation to these people, so we present ourselves seriously to the world as well. It says here that Bosnia and Herzegovina's credit rating has grown. It's sad to say that he's grown up because we decided to save an old foreign currency, so God forbid we bury 40-50% of our savings while we pay them off. It is sad, and if these are the foundations on which Bosnia and Herzegovina's credit rating rests, I'm afraid we won't get far. I must also say, no matter what, Mr Gligorić has elaborated it widely, it is a far older obligation for old foreign exchange savings than the commitments that Mrs Marić has made here. These people brought some dry money that was brought to the banks, passed it at a time when we lived in our homes, when there wasn't all that there was, and today we're bringing them back to the end of the column, so whoever survives, whoever endures, gets their money. I think as responsible people, I've accepted this law you know for what reason, we haven't voted for this Law on Old Foreign Savings, which was saving our cheeks at the last minute to vote, brought into a seal. Some people voted. That's why we've formed an investigative commission on old foreign savings that hasn't done its job, so it won't end up in this conference, and this idea, Mr. Gligorić, I've accepted for reasons to say it can't do this. Something has to change in that law that was passed just because it was a minute to twelve, which we've been waiting for. So, gentlemen, we haven't passed a good law and let's not take it out that the entities will apply it and once they say that we're in charge when it's going to work, and secondly, here are the main ones in the entities, when it's not going to put a ball on our hands. Therefore, whether they will block entity governments so that we do not have a headache or block the Council of Ministers. The trouble that drives them to a blockade is the same, anywhere blocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25675	Thank you very much. I've still got Mr. Križanović and Novaković on file. Everyone's gonna get a word if they want to, and I'm closing this debate. No more replicas. Mr. Križanović. Well, let Mr. Križanović speak his mind. We've been listening to you all day. Let's be honest with people.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25676	I thank Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Chairman for the understanding that this amendment and amendment of the law should not be interrupted, although my colleague Andrić is absolutely right that we should have the business approach to this vote alone. However, I am also aware that even today's debate will not bring about, unfortunately, something new compared to the last debate when the law was passed. Why am I saying this? Because we're in a very delicate situation. We're in a situation where this thing is very, very detached to say. It takes a long time and shows that the state has really not shown an adequate attitude towards its citizens, a large number of its citizens. And now we have a state of mind that we have a law in force that seems unsustainable, inadmissible from the point of view of the right of savings. And on the other hand, we have a proposal for that law, amendments and additions to that law, which, in my opinion, is unsustainable. 33 And what is there to do now? First and foremost, we cannot do this without cooperation with the Council of Ministers. We can't get a good solution. And unfortunately, experience so far shows us that we haven't had any good will, nor the Council of Ministers' responsibilities to find good solutions. There are three aspects in my opinion. First one legal aspect, it is the state's obligation to protect the rights of its citizens, to ensure these rights as property inalienable rights. On the other hand, I think that these other possibilities that are now being figured out in the new proposal, these are these natural compensations, these are other sources that can be objectively expected to say revenues that could significantly shorten the deadlines that are now in place. Thirdly, we would have a return to citizens' trust in domestic savings, domestic banks. The next money that would quickly return to savings certainly and contribute to the country's faster economic recovery. So it seems to me that it's very civilisedly approached this problem. And now we're going back to this. We're in one, let's say, very delicate situation. If we're gonna stick to it, purely business, these standards, I'm afraid we're not gonna solve the problem today. And we won't get a good solution, whether we refuse the law, the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law, whether we adopt it. By refusing that proposal, we accept, to say both the impotence and responsibility of the state to do its own, its job, to do what it exists for these citizens. On the other hand, if we adopt such a short deadline, all the circumstantial analyses suggest that we contribute to one of the financial instability of this country. So, if we accept this proposal, we're going to be accomplices to an unrealistic state or we're going to join that column that lies to this people again. So he'll be unsustainable, so he'll have to change again. I'd be willing to pay for tomorrow's total, of course, savings if that's possible. But solve one problem and open the next ten, I don't think it's the right solution. And that's why I would suggest trying to find a solution that will even deviate from the Rules of Procedure. Sometimes it's more important that things than, this formal regulation, that all of this remain alive and that, on the basis of those proposals that colleagues here have already highlighted, try to seek a real solution. It can be done if he has good will and responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25677	Thank you very much. Gosodin Novaković, you asked for a word. You'll get the word, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25678	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25679	Please, let's finish trying to make a point.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25680	I think a lot of things have already been said and I really don't want to repeat it. I had one proposal, I think he's come from a few, now MPs in this debate. I heard something similar from Mr. Sipović who was talking about a possible break. So I didn't realize whether it was a break now or a break from time to try to find a solution, meaning with the Council of Ministers. Maybe it'd be good for a man to say what kind of break he was thinking. 34 I think we need time and it would take a very bad message for this law to fall, so no matter what kind of reserves we have. Be careful, but let's say we've already heard here in the discussion of some possibility, first to 13, so up to 13, I agree with 8 and so on. Maybe we can make a compromise in terms of realising the law with this Association and get to something that is both pragmatic on the one hand and on the other, meets this demands of these people here. He had a similar suggestion, so so did Mr. Jozo. So he suggests we leave the law somehow in life. Now, can we or can't we get caught up in Article 95 of Section 3 where he says we have a new moment? For me, it's a new moment that the minister wrote a memo and delivered it to me as an MP, not to the commission, so I don't think I have a private correspondence, none of us with the minister, but we just got it under date 28.08. If it's a new moment, we'd better give it another chance to get to the law. The easiest thing to do today is to keep this law from passing. I mean, it's a very simple solution. We're going to have to put an end to the vote now, but we're going to leave a really ugly message for these people when they come out that we haven't done everything we can to try to solve the problem. I'm asking you if there's any way you can let us do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25681	Mrs. Perkanović. Please, I'm going to set a break because I have my own obligations now, this as chairman of the House half an hour and I think it's best that we all get back together in that period and the promoter and the representatives and the council and the association and, here's when Mrs. Perkanović is done, all those who answered, the word, will get the word, after the break. Here you go, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25682	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I point out that this problem deserves a very serious approach. Great efforts must be made to find ways to provide funds for the return of old foreign savings. It's not just about what's been mentioned up to 13 years, so there's a question of parallel between the damaged assets of foreign currency savings, so it's about not being able to return the foreign currency but having to return the domestic currency. I think that's all the things that point to great injustices and human rights violations in the matter of just restoring their rights, or their property. We've got two things to tell here. The damage caused by the war, the ruined houses and, and the rest of the property, is not the same as the foreign exchange. The foreign savings were used to build democratic order and create capitalisation. Therefore, this should also be taken into account and be grateful for the existing funds that were then deposited on bank accounts. It is very unserious to say that the return of foreign savings is not possible, how. On the sitting side, we have information that we are over-indebted, on the other hand by the same resolution ministries, we have information that we are medium in charge, on the third hand, we have, on the third hand, an explanation that these are the debtors and I agree with my colleague who says that no matter who is obliged to do this job of paying off, returning foreign savings. The most important thing is that foreign savings be made available to people. And I call for the seriousness of all institutions and all those who are obliged to bring this job to an end, take it very seriously and end the job in a satisfactory way of saving that has been waiting for 20 years for their property and to return. This can be called a kind of dissuasion of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25683	Thank you. Niyas whether you insist on it for a while now. Okay, thank you. Mr. Džaferović sought as a member of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25684	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will continue where I stopped last time, at last session when we talked about this topic. I don't think there's a man in this country who doesn't care about the issue of old foreign savings being resolved. I also believe that in this country people know that by not returning the old foreign savings, they cannot question the functioning of the state. We need to look for a solution to pay the state's savings for old foreign savings and keep the state financially sustainable at the same time. And I think it's a forum within which we have to move. I'm past it, so a very ugly message would be if this law fell. Last time I voted against the proposal, to keep talking on this topic and finding a solution, he just didn't accept it. I propose that this House of Ministers, so not to bring him down today, return to the commission that, by the commission, by the savings committee, the Council of Ministers and entity governments, of course, discuss what it is that is the maximum of what this state is, but honestly, to discuss, what it is that this country can offer without at the same time questioning its functions. I think this is the only correct and only, at this point, possible approach to getting out of this situation when we have this law or in solving issues when this law is Wednesday. I think that this way we could conclude the debate, so the thing, I repeat, would be very ugly whether this law, regardless of what I can talk about it in one way or another, is about foreign savings, people who have invested their money, so that this one, whose money is not returned, this law falls. And that's why I'm proposing this solution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25685	I'm going to give you a word for a minute, and, uh, we have this proposal concrete right now, and I think we need to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I must say earlier, the minister said they didn't foresee, that they didn't have the funds and so on. That's what they say about such an important question you haven't tried at all to do anything. Either you don't know or you won't. I think it's both. Secondly, Mr. Kozarić made it clear that there are 340 million people, that's 750 million, 780 million money that you can share. Why didn't we activate them? People have such assurances and guarantees. Secondly, you've now admitted, when you've said up to 13 years, when you get a story here, you say it in the law by 13, but you admit that even in this year you didn't predict the funds. You're cheating on people for this year. Well, where's the money? Why don't we talk about it? 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25687	All right, tiho.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25688	And please, please, given that this Parliament has knocked down two, three times the law to take away the old one, to take away the illegally acquired property, and at the same time we passed the law to take away the poor, to rob the property. What kind of people are we? So we've passed a law for the rich not to be taken away from them by what they've robbed 5 billion in this country, anything could return and raise the economy, we've been privileged in this parliament, we've refused the law to confiscate illegally acquired property, property based on robbery. And we passed the law to keep robbing these people. And I ask you, as far as the proposal is concerned, I can't accept it, I, as a proposing Mr. Chairman, now I'm back on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25689	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25690	I can't accept that I'm changing anything. Because it was time. This would be just one new scam. I want you to plead, on my proposal to plead with or against, I will honor it as an MP. Thank you. [[Common discussion]] No, you know we're not gonna have any sessions, we've got nothing, we've fooled people. I'm not going in front of these people, I'm not going to the campaign, I'm not going on the list, I'm not going anywhere, but my conscience will, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25692	There's been a debate, a break of up to two hours. We'll decide in two hours. Thank you very much. Please, I've concluded the debate with the fact that there was one reported in the first part of the debate that was Mr. Nijaz Duraković and because of his correctness I am giving him the word now, this short. Here you go, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25693	.... discussion, I really don't even know why he'd define himself. It is mostly not on the background of what Mr Džaferović and Jozo Križanović suggested. With one addition, I don't know if it's possible, but I am convinced that this Parliament, regardless of how this bill goes, will draw one conclusion that the Council of Ministers, as well as that of the future, would have to carry out, on an interstate basis, an urgent procedure for negotiations with those countries whose banks literally robbed Bosnia and Herzegovina. I mean before it reaches Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia. And give one 37 reasonable deadline to see. If, given the different resistances, we already have examples of Croatia that successfully completed negotiations with the Ljubljanska Banka and damaged its residents. So we might as well come to that conclusion, independently, so from what we're about to conclude today. And secondly, if these negotiations, we give you a reasonable deadline, let it be what I know until the new year, they fail, then there is a simple and legitimate way to confiscate the assets of those banks that have robbed our savings. And these assets in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a lot, I think, quite enough to save you the damages. What of it will be left, believed and to the future government, but I think this Parliament could at least do so much for these disproved savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25694	Don't open the debate if it's an incorrect quote, just a short minute... [[Common discussion]] It was a correction to the incorrect assumption, in fact, the intensities of the conclusion were in the other direction that, that it meant putting the issue on the agenda towards the Council of Ministers and that it was sought, this solution in that direction. We have concluded the debate and we are now in the next situation of distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives, honored guests. We are in the decision-making process on Mr. Gligorić's bill in the second round of voting. It's a business thing and we heard a debate. We just heard a little discussion. I want to be responsible as president now. So we heard the debate, we heard the content proposals, and it's clear today that by insisting solely on this law, we're going to keep this active position according to the demands of these people. But that's what we have to decide today, deal with it, and there's a variant that offers a new report but in some real deadlines and guarantees that people can accept it at all. I want to say it here, it's on the table, that's known. And so we don't spend all this time, so we don't spend our proposed efforts, so we don't spend the effort, the efforts of the associations, the public and everything I think we need to be very focused and make the best possible solution. Right now, I am absolutely not so that we can just take it off the agenda today and give one of these, I would say the inactive role of the Council of Ministers, a new time to spend. They had several opportunities, they had a chance to come out with real budgets, with a more real time approach, here they are. And now it's up to us to decide whether or not we're going to make a statement about the law under the Rules of Procedure or we're going to be looking for a new time. Here. Mr. Gligorić is proposing. Short, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25696	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it's true that what you're saying is that there are separate variations. As a proponent, I insist that we, as the Rules of Procedure, vote. If we're going to comply with the business norm, we have to vote. If we want to install a political will in it, then that these people know that it is a political will and that it is thus prolonged without guaranteeing that it or 38 commissions, the Council of Ministers will not because it has had the opportunity, nor can it come to the future calling practically this Assembly, which would be a public fraud of these people. I don't want any part of it. As a promoter, I remain attached to this, with the fact that now, Mr. Chairman, I would beg an explanation of how to vote. First, after we voted and had a general majority and we didn't have an entity, according to the Rules of Procedure, you, as chairman of the two deputies, were to agree within three days. Are you or aren't you? It doesn't matter now, we have practically yours now that you didn't agree. In this case, I'd like an interpretation. Do we now have to vote only on who was against in the second round, because Article 65 of point 4. The rules of procedure are clear, there can be no virtually one vote that we have had, so let's do it again because three people are there, they are or they didn't say they're canceling the vote that we've already had as Parliament. There's no retreating, it's not that, the chess was moved away from what they would say, let alone in Parliament. In that case, I want an explanation. I believe that we should only vote who is from Republika Srpska v, who is from the Federation against and that is then respecting the Rules of Procedure of Article 65(4). Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25697	Thank you. Mr. Špirić and we'll ask Secretary Dom to interpret, I don't want to leave anything to chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25698	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I ask that we really try to bring this in with the goal of seeking a solution. I put this back on the agenda at the Constitutional Court. I voted against the Council of Ministers Act where it was 13 years old. Today I have a warning from the Council of Ministers and entity governments that five years is fiscally unsustainable for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to be responsible for both foreign savings and what's called state and entity. Can't an old-age foreign savings be... equal entities or states. Let me, no matter how much anyone wants to go into the foreign savings wing right now, I'm the best friend of this project. And that's why I think the proposal that leaves the project alive, that the Council of Ministers and the entity government try to find a more comfortable solution for old foreign currency savings is much better than the solution that we now vote and fall, as a responsible man towards citizens, towards voters. So it's almost safe and old foreign exchanges know the outcome of this. If the IMF and the World Bank have warned her, and they're not just involved here. Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy depends on it, unfortunately. Are we going to defy today to make this a pre-election political issue? So please make this proposal, which is a proposal that Šefik, Nijaz, Jozo and others mentioned, to try to find a better proposal, realistically feasible. Because no one needs an ideal law, not an applicable one. If it is known that the government of the entity in the coming year has no chance or the state government to function if this is adopted, there is no fiscal endurance, because what we are accomplishing. That's why I'm begging old foreign exchanges too, I know what the pain is, and I'm one of those, there's got to be patience. This problem cannot be solved in conflict with governments. Don't let anyone push you into conflict. Let's settle this deal. So I think this solution that leaves one deadline, 39 let's see which one is on the trail of finding the best solution for old foreign currency savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25699	Thank you very much. Business, only business intervention. It's over. It's over. It's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25700	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25701	No replica, just business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25702	No, it's not about the replica. You see, eventually returning to the commission, we didn't have a negative report from the commission. I mean, it doesn't mean we had a positive report from the commission. And I see here a possible solution if we accept, see this law goes to the House of Peoples. As he passes through the House of Peoples, in which way he can go with the amendments and lead to the measure that sustains it and pays off possible, then we will go to the alignment and get to that ideal text. It's a way to live this law. If we make a deal here and we have the will.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25703	Thank you. Sead Avdić, only business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25704	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and honored guests, I don't think there's a lot of maneuvering space chairing both colleagues and in terms of deciding on this law. Under one, this is no longer Mr. Gligorić's private law. This is a law that is in the procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So he's simply the property of Parliament. Two. During the discussion, as counterpart Novaković said, there were new moments and new arguments that condition, which condition that the House of Representatives must be first identified for the proposal, to extend the vote that my colleague Gligorić was talking about, and during that time, let us give the possibility to the Council of Ministers with entity governments to propose a realistic economically justified debt settlement project towards our foreign currency savings. And that is a proposal that has a priority or a final statement on the law. So in this context you are absolutely obliged, I would say you put first this proposal that came out of the debate at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25705	So the debate is closed. Business interventions are closed. Only business intervention. No, I said the debate was closed. Here you go. No, no. Gligorić was before. He's got the word, Mr. Sipović. So let us respect each other. I gave him my word. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25706	Business intervention, exclusively business intervention because Professor Avdić proposes to vote first on the conclusion of the debate. Well, I guess the debate came about because of the bill I gave. And he has the advantage of voting. The Rules of Procedure vote on the bill and we can discuss it later. We can also conclude that when we adopt the law, after 3-4 years, when the government is serious, when it is funded, with associations to simply find a compromise and extend another year or two years. But first, let the power show good will, and not always be those who are punished. Well, there's no more trust in this kind of power, and that's why I think we should vote exclusively on the amendment proposal and the addition of my law. And later, you vote whatever you want. Don't throw at the end of the line, Mr. Avdić, because it's not correct, it's a classic, uh, manipulation within Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25707	Come on, more. This is what we're done with. Business is all you can do. Mr. Sipović, just business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25708	I would indeed, is our goal to come to a solution that will be acceptable to both the state and the gentlemen, what is realistic and what it concludes, what Mr Špirić has suggested and the other chairman. I would ask you, as a proposing, Mr. Gligorić to show one understanding, the willingness of home to leave this, in life of this law and order the Council of Ministers to find some moduso. I am also in your discussion, you must be credible if you want some solution, the first solution that has been implemented. If you're looking ultimately for me, I say openly, I can't vote. I am for human rights. I'll vote for human rights, but I can't go on Saturday to go, the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state system are going to be threatened. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25709	Thank you, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25710	Please, because that's what the Council of Ministers assures me. I also suggest that, on the back of this, we show better, right after the emergency procedure, that we give the Council of Ministers a conclusion, that we postpone this vote, and only in this part of what you're asking in the second phase to vote who's against it. Let's see what we can do here in that context and if not, I say openly I will be, if you are looking ultimately with solutions like this where there is no adjusted payment deadline, I will have to be restrained, although both heart and soul would like to see a change in the solution to protect your rights, human.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25711	Thank you, Mr. Sipović. I will ask the secretary of the home of Mrs. Todorović, as it was a question of how to vote in the second round, to explain. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25712	Well, I think that, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the College, I think it's clear how they vote. This is the second round of voting and I remind you of Article 65(4). Rules of Procedure. If the College fails to reach agreement, it will take the majority of the total number of MPs present to vote, provided that the votes against them do not contain 2/3 or more MPs elected from each entity. So in a particular case, we're voting for, against, abstention, to see if the law has won the general majority. Then we ask only who's against it, to see if 2/3 are in that total number against the entity. It is about the vote on this report by the committee of colleagues who have not reached agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25713	We'll talk about the proposal once we've made a statement about the law according to the Rules of Procedure. Have you read the Rules of Procedure? Have you read the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25714	Business intervention, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25716	I'm begging you. So not only was the practice of this house at home, but it was according to the Rules of Procedure. When considering one law, even if it is the last vote against, in terms of the Commission's report, all proposals must be cleared up and voted for them for or against, and only then, in the final instance, for the law. No, it's quite clear as day people, don't disturb procedure. So the proposals that came out of the debate are required to be put to the vote and only then the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25717	Andrić and Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25718	I just want to tell my colleague Avdić that he's wrong because we ended the debate at the last session and we started voting and we didn't have an entity majority from the Federation. Today we continue the vote. We therefore had the possibility of proposing, voting on proposals, other possible other species. We've spent it and finished it, and we still have to vote on the law. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25719	Gligoric business. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25720	We have now heard from the secretary, and I accept this argument by members of 65th and Mr., why is business intervention, Mr. Avdić, I'm just saying if the proposal fails to agree, members fail to reach agreement, they return to the general majority again. It's kind of stupid to me, but if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25721	Here it was read, I insisted on not being guilty.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25722	That's right. It's not there, that it was some gentleman preside over the motion from the debate, the conclusion that you disagreed on the conclusion, so that it would be in this position. No, this position is completely clear. We voted in last session. You disagreed on amendments to the law, not on conclusions, not on proposals, and this article 65 refers to a specific matter, which is that we are now voting. And after that, you do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25723	That's right. And then again with the general majority and then just.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25724	That's right, I agree. It's a little upside down, but I respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25725	That's right, it's read like that. I can't right now, I can't right now. We move to a statement on the law in the second round as Mrs Branka Todorović reads. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. You can't get any more words. We tried to get to, but no, there's no readiness. So the law has a general majority again, no entity, here you see. Now we're going to the second round of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25726	If he has a general majority, now he says who's against him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25727	Not now, only votes against this law are now required. I ask the MPs to prepare and vote now. Federation 8 opposition, RS 3. The law was accepted in the first reading in this home. Thank you very much. 43 We move to the ninth item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25728	First reading, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25729	The first reading is. First reading only. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Report /some MPs ask for business intervention./ You can't get business intervention done. You can't because we finished the law in the first reading and whatever you want. The completion of the agenda. You can't suggest because I just decided whether to suggest it or not, and I want to be consistent. So we're going to the ninth point of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a proposal for the conclusions of the Representatives of the Party's Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina to set up a commission to examine civilian casualties in the area of the Municipality of Prijedor in 1992-1995.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25732	And it wasn't, unfortunately, about this debate, which is why I'm using to say, well, here's the thing I'd like to thank you very much for, anyway, for your permission. Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives and other guests. I'm just really a few sentences. I don't want to, uh, discuss it a lot here, but I have to remind you why we started this. In the interest of truth and justice and the common future of all citizens of Prijedor, the truth and justice of crime must be clarified, at the very least. Truth and justice are the most difficult in the RS in which obstruction and knowledge of truth and justice are the real remains of war policy, the policy of media 44 structures that existed at the time. I have to say it this way, that it's very difficult there because, today, there have been some findings here about human rights, oh, democracy, but there victims walk without actually being victims, and those who did this to them have, without any rights and without respecting their feelings, and in fact those who did it are walking with a lot of rights and with, like, heroes. I, uh, in the name of that, have to do something to change that. It cannot be talked about the protection of human rights, internal reintegration, democratisation and economic prosperity with true credibility if there is no human, human dignity and moral, human consistency and moral, moral dignity and recognition of the truth about crime, repentance for crime and, of course, the arrest of the remaining criminals. It was very sad, uh, listen to this, see how this has gone all the way through the process so far. Today, colleagues from the RS will be inconsistencies and show double standards for the same issues regardless of the explanations they possibly have, given that they have so far shown, we will see what they will show today. Be assured that the drivers of this initiative will not give up fighting for truth and justice until until the horrors of the past have ended, until justice for the victims is achieved, peace and social equality, social equal treatment for the survivors and works to build a future for our children. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25733	Thank you very much. We move to a statement on the request of representatives of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Party for the establishment of a commission to investigate civilian casualties in the area of the Municipality of Prijedor for the period '92-'95. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So at this point, there's not enough entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25734	He's got 10 against Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25735	Now we're going to the second round. Only those who are against it now vote. Stand by. Vote now. From RS 10 against, so this conclusion of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Club is not accepted. 45 We move to the tenth dock of the agenda, that's Add.10. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Proposal for the Conclusions of Representative Filip Andrić on the suspension of the further reception of new employees and employees in all ministries until the reconstruction of the authorities following the October elections. We got the report. There's no consent from the College. We're going to the second round of voting. So we all vote. Please prepare to make a statement on the conclusion of Representative Filip Andrić. Vote now. The conclusion didn't get the general majority. We're going to the eleventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the admission of cases by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the use of evidence provided by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the courts in BiH under the procedure of Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25740	I would ask, indeed, to clarify, or give an interpretation. Is it possible that one law can be found at the same time by two procedures in a home? Be careful if we wanted to make some kind of passage, and I don't mind, right now, understanding the contents of the law, so we're not talking about it right now, or I can put this before that compliance report, so eventually it ends up that way. Look at me right now, this law is in accordance with Article 104 or with a shortened procedure. I think that some stupidity that the Council of Ministers put forward in proposing this, this legal solution and the way in which to solve this institution's issues at all should not be broken through the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I'm here to fix it by making this short period as short as possible. So let's say, given that today at the College, among other things, it seems to me, there was some view of the relative need not to end parliamentary life here today but to continue, so, uh, anyway, in October safely and perhaps in September. Perhaps it would be good if we simply had to cut the period there from 45 days now to next week maximum and respect the Rules of Procedure as much as necessary, and believe me, we have made different concessions in the Rules of Procedure, but we have not done something like this in Parliament yet. I think it would also be good for Parliament's dignity, ultimately, and for the very institution's own decision to make in one legal procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25741	Please. All these elements Mr. Novaković opened we looked at but we simply compared the business order as determined by the agenda. First there are reports on the achievement of agreement and we could not, uh, ignore the request of the Council of Ministers for the procedure of Article 105. And we are now pleading on this procedure. We're in favour of accepting it and adopting the law. That's the procedure for Article 104, and we've worked it out. Here I am putting this, this request from the Council of Ministers for a plea. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So we're moving on to the second round of pleas. Now they're just voting those who are against it. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So the procedure is not accepted, so we now have a situation that we have the opportunity to finish our work in a shortened procedure. If we don't finish it regularly, so what? We're going to the fourteenth agenda, that's Ad.14. Application of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety and Traffic pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure At the 61st session of the 27th year, the People's House adopted the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety and Traffic, whose proposing representative Halid Genjac. 28.07. The people's home delivered a proposal for this request? with a request for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a motion hearing. Here you go, Novaković. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25743	Mr. Chairman, I just want to make one conclusion that this is the first law in four years that the House of Peoples has proposed to the House of Representatives. I'd be happy if the House of Nations had proposed some other law. It's just that this job to end up on this law that I don't think it goes to the House of Peoples to honor. I'll vote against, so also procedure 105 and against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25744	Thank you very much. Mr Bešlagić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25745	The proposal to amend and supplement this law was also submitted by a group of MPs from this Parliament. At its meeting today, the Commission for Transport and Links discussed the proposal and failed to receive the proposal, did not pass the first reading, which in other words means that the commission rejected the proposal. In that sense, I call on parliamentarians not to accept this proposal. The reason is very simple. The only non-governmental organization that has the task of taking care of, and the task of taking care of, and of the elemental disasters is the Red Cross. All the other organizations that find some of the funds for their work in this, so all the other organizations are creative, but it wouldn't have bothered me if there hadn't been an organization like the Association of Private Doctors, which, in other words, we're now making a business and the Red Cross has worked for both high school and primary security schools as well as before the war, did this activity and I ask you not to accept the proposal to go according to the law of 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25746	Jovanović, then Ćeman and Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25747	Well, here's what I wanted to meet home, to inform you that we had a Transport and Communications Commission this morning, and what Mr. Bešlagić said, and another reason purely for principled reasons, because the Security Act on Bosnia and Herzegovina's roads has come in so it's not nearly a month and we're already going with the changes and additions. Any further laws that have been proposed as amendments and additions to the Commission have not been passed. I think you all got on benches a letter from the Red Cross of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska. There's no need for me to explain what they wrote, so to speak, so this morning the Transport and Communications Commission did not support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25748	Thank you very much. You'll be welcome, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25749	Here's the thing, then. I'm one of those guys who's been proposing two kinds of changes to the Traffic Safety Act lately. The first group of issues I have discussed and proposed with my colleague Bešlagić and my colleague, who is second, Belkić, in terms of criminal policies and some 49 other aspects of the law and based on assessments, assessments made by competent people, who have been evaluated from the time of entry into force of the law until the time of application of the law, in order to make sense to review some solutions. Also, in the meantime, as an MP in this Parliamentary Assembly, I was exposed to certain, let me say, consultations, questions, that there is a single cross or cross worm in this section in terms of training for, to, to provide first aid, to pass first aid tests in the context of passing a driver's exam, as well as a number of other humanitarian and other professional institutions, organisations that also predicate to deal with this issue. I remind you, therefore, as an MP, I have spoken to both the sittings and the others and I have gained the impression that, in one hand and the other, conditionally speaking, the party has quite a number of arguments in its contribution to itself. What has defined me, although we are now talking about a proposal from another home of the same content that I have proposed, which has led me to suggest the law of the one who has not yet arrived in this house but here, which we have just heard is a negative report from the committee in charge. He suggested that I was told that there are indeed sufficient arguments in favour of putting humanitarian organisations involved in first aid training in a level playing field. The organization of the Red Cross, which I do not, and I am one of those, is known for sure when we started working in this House and in this mandate, pushed strongly that this Parliamentary Assembly adopts the Law on the Red Cross, which was somewhere stuck in procedures, has its place and cannot be questioned as such. The only dilemma they felt, and which others refer to this Parliament and the position that we have given to the Red Cross organization, is whether one single organization should have, conditionally stated, a monopoly to do one job out of which certain revenues really come. At the same time, according to me, the arguments of the other side, so those who advocate the adoption of this law, they say the Red Cross organisation also has additional incomes and under other laws for that kind of activity it carries out as an undisputed planetary organization such as education in the field of providing health enlightenment, etc., Sunday of the Red Cross and so on. And so on, stamps and all. So the only question here is that, I'm saying the words of those who advocate the adoption of the law, and finally I'm going to say what I really think about everything, so if we have more humanitarian organisations that provide some kind of help, if training is to pass public, this exam to provide legal assistance, to provide this assistance, first aid in car accidents, actually public authority. Then the question arises whether the state can put someone in priority in giving authority to exercise public authority, or if the exercise of that public authority results in certain revenues, and we have organisations dealing with humanitarian activities in general, whether one of them can be favored. These organisations say: The Red Cross will also hire doctors under the contract of action, in fact, to be members of committees to be educated and questioned. Why not give this right to others who also do not have professional doctors and other staff, but also, according to the contract of action, this one, in fact, will hire experts in these commissions. On the other hand, they underline, I still speak to the arguments of the other side which I was exposed to, this one on the other hand says 50 laws already foresees the possibility that a resorient minsiter, within the broad range of sublegal acts to be adopted, actually prescribes, of course the appropriate criteria for all, in this case whether to remain alone or to expand the list of those who provide this type of service, which will do and train citizens, these candidates for first aid driving exams. Therefore, these criteria will apply to everything. One kind of argument really on, when it appears, does not slow down the position of the Red Cross, somehow brings you into a situation to assess that it really isn't, that this approach has its logic. I conclude this, so it doesn't make any sense to me that the House of Nations did what it did. The Procedural Home of the People has not been wrong, they can each time, of course, adopt laws before us and so on. And in that respect, the observation of why he first showed up, if he wasn't standing, doesn't matter at all. As for me personally, truly respecting both arguments and other arguments, at the very least expecting that this does not mean devaluation of the position of the Red Cross neither this Parliament nor those who are, possibly for this law, acting in that direction, absolutely cannot and should not be interpreted as such. However, I have more arguments in favour of simply making sense to respect the arguments of the other party, so other humanitarian organisations that would only take part in this segment, part of what might be said, of this cookie for their humanitarian activity. The argument that we heard in the accompanying act of the Lord of the Red Cross may in some ways relax the situation. And I know, probably a lot of people here, and even people in the Red Cross, that some of the humanitarian organizations and associations that predicate to part of that cake, I'm deliberately speaking to this dictionary right now, actually don't have infrastructure anywhere where there's a Red Cross or a Red Cross because they simply have a narrow area of action, which doesn't mean I can't find competent people to be their commission members for these issues. If so, and so it is, probably, their position, although it will not be exclusive if this law passes, will not be more significantly questioned. I say this relaxes the position in that I simply believe that simply these other organizations will not be, so to speak, competitive in this area of the Red Cross and as far as I'm concerned, I support it. I'll still support the law because I think it's on the verge that, at the very least, we give equal chances and let whoever has a better commission and who has a wider infrastructure and that's in this case the Red Cross. He'll actually take more of those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25750	Thank you very much. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25751	Here I'll just remind you that it's about determining the education holder of amateur drivers from the first pump of work and action, so in the field of public health enlightenment. The esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Red Cross, or the whole idea of the Red Cross, were created at the time of the first aid, and at that time in the war and the whole movement, therefore, it is not just one association, it works in all countries on that very idea. I will just remind you that if we were to pass this law, we would be the only country that has it, because here I have the laws of neighbouring Macedonia, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia. Macedonia exclusively Red Cross on the Republic of Macedonia, 51 Croatian Parliament, hence the decision to declare the Transport Safety Act, where the training of candidates for drivers is carried out by the Croatian Red Cross and the first-aid medical institutions authorised by the Ministry of Health, so health institutions, and not humanitarian institutions and Serbia's Red Cross, which train lecturers for first-aid training. It is a pathetic caritative work or the work of humanitarian organisations that I mention to you along the way, neither Merhamet nor Karitas or any other humanitarian organisation that works in BiH's space in its statutes does not provide for such a thing. That's why I'm booked, until some other conditions are built, and someone would, I'm wondering why the proposal didn't go in the direction of some health institutions because who could do it next to you, for example. Let's say one red cross this, training that kind? It would make more sense to me that these are health institutions than humanitarian organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25752	Thank you very much. Mr. Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25753	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am against this law, I mean against the motion to amend the law. Here's why. We know what role the Red Cross played, the basic Red Cross in history, has played for hundreds of years. And, the Red Cross has a stalker crew, personnel, and has direct cooperation with the medical institutions. It does not stand out as others claim that we doctors who are members of the Red Cross who are actively cooperating in the Red Cross, that we and our work are getting some sort of compensation. We only get confessions. Therefore, to take away their income, and we know what role they played in the wars and what role they will play in the future, so that it would not be okay. Now understand that these doctors will also use to educate future members who will provide first aid, it cannot be the quality of the same quality as the Red Cross that has been doing it for years. And I am absolutely against it and I will vote against the amendment of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25754	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the request of the House of Peoples, therefore, to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety of Road Traffic under Article 105. Stand by. Vote now. This request did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. So, regular procedure. 52 We're going to the 15th point. That's Ad.15. Sead for a Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Election Law pursuant to Article Avdić. Mr Avdić delivered the draft Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Election Law on 24th with a request for an urgent procedure under Article 105. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25756	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests, may have, perhaps, given the surprise that such a bill has arrived to amend the electoral law because we are ahead of the October 2006 elections. However, there are many reasons why such a move, basically said intervention, occurred. And this means that BiH has not yet objectively reached its full democratic development, that we are objectively spoken in a state of pre-political state of people's consciousness in BiH, that we have a system of party unification, a way of making decisions and the functioning of political life in BiH in a way that is not always in full sense democratic, that we have plural democracy based on ethnic democracy or ethnic pluralism. In this context, too, it is certainly required that dozens of conditionally speaking small parties be participated in BiH's political life, especially in the institutions of the legislative authority. So, in the event that this situation remains in the Electoral Law as it is, that means that we propose that the 3 per cent voter cent vote be reduced to 2 per cent, allowing dozens of genders and parties, objectively whose authority could neither be the support nor the possibility of developing their infrastructure, to get the possibility to participate, I would tell the BiH legislative authorities. It would be for the benefit of plural democracy, the development of democracy in BiH, for the sake of BiH, and in this context it is expected that the MPs of the really representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will, in the best possible way, end this mandate, with the adoption of one such, I would say the necessary law that corrects this sense from 3 per cent to 2 per cent. The electoral commission has been partly consulted, discussed, nothing is disturbed in the election process, nothing is simply disrupted by all the preparations that have been made, which means there are no obstacles to this law being passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25757	Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25758	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Professor Avdić said. I'd just add one more sentence and get it over with. That all those who think we don't have time, that we're late, that the election process has begun, to say that that's not 53 right, because this amendment and the addition of article 105 would not be late and counting and applying the electorate is the ultimate last activity of the Electoral Commission. So, it's totally on time and I'm asking that we back this up by procedure and later I'd say something later, when, if we adopt procedure and by 105th, this one, after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25759	Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25760	I'm also joining this proposal. Of course there's a lot of reasons for that. The reasons are strong, so to speak, especially if the political environment in BiH is monitored. Therefore, if pre-election activities that dominate the political environment are monitored. I may be more directed to what's happening in RS. There is one catastrophic situation, that the media is politically occupied, forced, favoured by one or two political parties along with business clubs that are alongside the parties. So with business clubs, these are two parties that are known as business clubs that work very successfully and make that necessary majority. In fact, Professor Avdić touched one thing that is absolutely present in these areas, which is so-called. a connection system, or a system of patronage of political parties over the work of institutions, over the law. So, if we are reducing, therefore, through reduction, we act in and the Law on Election Law, so if we reduce the chances of new, of course, political forces, new ideas in this space, we are certainly going to reduce the chances of democratic processes in these areas. I could talk a lot about it today, about the role of the media, the role of the Media Regulatory Agency that I have to say that it does nothing, that it fully tolerates the domination of one or two parties, and that is such a domination, such a relationship that it goes into disdain. So it's just not possible to tolerate. A man who believes in democracy thinks he can't live up to those facts. We have daily process sheets in these areas. I could talk a lot about it today, about the role of the media, the role of the Media Regulatory Agency that I have to say that it does nothing, that it fully tolerates the domination of one or two parties, and that is such a domination, such a relationship that it goes into disdain. So it's just not possible to tolerate it. A man who resists democratic thinking and thinking cannot be reconciled with those facts. We have daily sheets that, say, we've run 13 numbers, you have the same guy on the first page nine times, twice from the same party in the next two numbers, etc. Or, that in the same list you find 4-5 images of one and the same leader, because that leader, because the political authority that put the full media under its control in RS, has replaced the leadership of earlier, the editors-in-chiefs and if they do not work in their function, in their propaganda of their party, we call their ideas, unfortunately not ideas, these are exhausted ideas, failed, past, past times this, simply these papers or their editorials cannot function without the obedience that it is required to give to these leaders. Therefore, there are many reasons, there are many reasons to open this process and in some ways to at least partially reduce this torture that goes towards media space, of course to smaller parties that have no easy chance of saying what they mean. In BiH, I say, there is a free word at risk. The free word is compromised, please. So we're going back to '48, at least in some parts of BiH. This is such a reckless, reckless 54 relationship with the other and forcing one of the same, or two parties, truth in this process wants one dead of the party to be brought back to life and put into the first plan, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25761	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25762	So, like this, I would remind my colleagues, and also the legislator, that not so long ago we had amendments and additions to this law and that the task force that worked for months to prepare this law, was beginning to think not only about reducing this electoral threshold, but also about increasing it. Although little is now being said about the procedure, it is important to point to the content of the law because it will then depend on the relationship to the procedure. So the task force was even considering increasing the electoral threshold. It is rightly indicated that there is no need to go to an increase in the electoral threshold, as this could then mean that those who are in a position to determine the rules of the game in Parliament are making it difficult for smaller parties. When there was talk on a committee that I attended, then there was a lot of talk, so in this House, in the sense that the current government, however it could now be characterized, and in whatever form some parliamentary majority could be defined here, but therefore the sintagma current power has no legitimacy. The reason and reason was said to be that below 50% of the citizens voted, went to the polls, and that the fact that the electoral body is available is 50 per cent and some per cent, to which those who did not go to parliament in the elections that were not full 4 years ago. I finally said, so the biggest argument against reducing the electoral threshold is precisely if it's true that 50% of the citizens have absorbed unsatisfactory current power, and then some of the parties that are small, large, or others that are already in Parliament take those 50% and least of them, here by this, 10-12 can cross the threshold of 4%, even if it was 4%, because 10 times 4, 40 and another 2, so 12 parties could even enter with a censorship of 4%. Why did I tell you this? To say, this is not a question of democracy, and as much as I could personally have the sympathy for this one, to cut the threshold, I simply don't accept the argument that the 3% threshold is non-democratic and 2% democratic. This is not the story, and I simply think that no matter how much the assessment is that although the elections are called, we are in electoral procedures and the real electoral threshold will only be applied when the election results have and apply according to the vote's will that it does not affect the procedures, it would nevertheless be correct to say, from the time the elections are prescribed until the elections are held, there is no need to change the rules and I will therefore, of course, be against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25763	Thank you very much. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the request of legislator Sead Avdić, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Election Law in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. 55 means discussion of a request for procedure, a statement of request for procedure. Stand by. Vote now. The request was not received by the general majority. He's going into a regular procedure. We're going to the 16th item of the agenda. That's Ad.16. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure The draft law of the Council of Ministers delivered to Parliament 2.08. This is about a request for a procedure, a shortened procedure as referred to in Article 104. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Please state your request for a procedure as referred to in Article 104. Stand by. Vote now. The request has a general majority, no entity. I beg your patience, let's see what happens to the third member of the College, excuse me. At the request of procedure in the second round, only those who are against it vote. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So it's a request for a repeat vote. Stand by. Vote now. This request was not supported. So we have 2/3 against RS. And the request of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers' Law, goes to regular procedure. We're going to the 17th agenda. That's Ad.17. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider a proposal for infringements under the procedure of Article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25769	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25770	Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25771	Thank you, Chairman. I think that for a year and a half, the efforts of both entity governments and the expert inter-minor group, the inter-resor group between the entities and the BiH state and the Council of Ministers, have taken place and created a new model of the law on higher education. A new model of the Higher Education Act. This new model of the law, the new law has been passed and it has not been passed twice on to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. That's one dimension. The second dimension is that the Law on Science and Technology has been prepared within the BiH Academy of Sciences and Arts. And he's also waiting to enter the parliamentary procedure. Now there is a real question of the purpose and impact of these laws which will be all the malts no longer in parliamentary procedure. I would ask that the Council of Ministers be shown, what about this law on higher education and in this context, that we also observe this proposal in this spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25772	Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing up. Of course, to be expected from the Council of Ministers and from the last Constitutional and Legal Commission, the request for the team has gone, for the reading here we are waiting for. We're moving on to a statement on this request. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. The request doesn't have a general majority, it goes into regular procedure. We're going to the 21st point of the agenda. That's, uh, Ad 21. Request from the party's representative for BiH to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, in a shortened procedure 14.08. you got this proposal. We were later given an additional explanation for the passing of this law, which was also passed to you. I'm opening a debate on a request for a procedure. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25774	To say, or to explain that we have abstained from our original intention to try for the urgency of going to procedure 105, but still because of the importance of the law and the need for MPs to do this force of material that we have provided to read, we have nevertheless chosen to go to procedure 104. And I sincerely hope that we will give it a chance to discuss and make arguments in one procedure, because I fully assure you that this is of general interest. So it's not partial. I'm sure it's a general interest. And I'm really asking you to back this up, to go to 104. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25775	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We also heard this further explanation from Mr. Belkić. We're moving on to a plea. Stand by. Vote now. We have a request for a repeat vote. Prepare to make a statement on the request of the party's party for BiH representative to be considered under the shortened procedure of the law. Vote now. The request has a general majority, no entity. Can we go to the second round? So we're going to the second round of voting. Only those who are against it now vote. Stand by. Vote now. We have a request for a repeat. Get ready again. Vote now. 2/3 are against the RS and the request goes to regular procedure. We're going to agenda 22. That's Ad.22. The request of MP Sead Avdić to consider the draft labour law and recruitment by a reduced procedure of 104. Rules of Procedure I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. Mr. Sead Avdić, please. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25777	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, motive is next. This law was once in parliamentary procedure at the beginning of 2000 and, at the beginning of this term of office. Unfortunately, it didn't pass, but then some things happened. Integration has taken place, I would say, and the creation of a confederate of the BiH Trade Union. And the Syndicate was doing this proposal, absolutely in line with the International Labour Organization. It was due by May 31st of '99 and not 2006. And in this context, surely, there are many reasons for this law to be considered under Article 105 more than we can expect in the next 3 months, I would say a stalemate in the work of the highest legislative authority and I think this law deserves to go under Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25778	Thank you, Mr. Avdić, for this explanation. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the request of MP Sead Avdić to consider the draft law on labour and employment in BiH by 104. Stand by. Vote now. It has a general, no entity majority. Can we get along again? Okay, let's go to the second round. Only those who are against it vote. Stand by. Vote now. There's no repeat request, so say I can't read the mind. Okay, we have a request for a repeat. Vote now. So we have 2/3 against RS so this request also goes into regular procedure. We're moving to agenda 23. That's Ad.23. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act, also under procedure 104. I'm opening a debate on this request. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Stand by. Vote now. So now there is only one vote missing, we have a significant shift in relation to the shortened procedures of the RS entity and here, the College has finally reached agreement with this legitimacy, so the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure under Article 104 for the Central Record and Data Exchange Act has been accepted. Thank you very much. 60 We move to the 24th point of the agenda. That's Ad.24. Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in BiH in First Reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25785	We're on the suggestion that we seem respected, this professor made one conclusion here and that's to pass the law, so this dom has come to the conclusion that the Law on Corridor 5c.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25786	That doesn't rule that out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25787	Yeah, yeah, that was a proposal and a commission. I think Professor Kunić went with that proposal once, too. Now we're practically in a situation, so when we have a conclusion at home to make the law and we have a decision, which definitely defines everything the law needs to define. I think that, regardless of what the Commission has found and accepted, and has found or suggested that it also accepts home, I think it is necessary for such a decision, if nothing else, far more consultation than at this level, given where, meaning the territory through which Corridor 5c passes, given the very different views that are last, it seems to me, two months carried out in the media and in relation to, with a decision on concessions or the law. So, it would be good to have this question today, if possible, not to make this decision, but to leave a little space for it to still be seen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25788	Thank you. Mr. Belkić's question, then Živković, then Križanović, then Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25789	Whether this decision, but I don't know if there's anyone in front of the promoter who might answer me, this decision practically prejudges whether or not it exclusively foresees financing the Concession highway. Or someone from the Commission gave it to me. Reading it, building the highway, reading this decision, carefully read it, I interpret it as being defined, practically just for Concession. Nothing credits, nothing this, nothing different variants, own resources and so on. I think that, that we should do well, think about whether we're narrowing ourselves down, in a way, the possibility of a combination, and whether, if we're not in a position to find interested concessionaries and so on, or those who would take it under concession. Well, I, I should leave an alternative. I'd be begging someone, but there's no proposing, and this really is a very important thing, this decision as small as it looks, short as it is, it's very important. I don't know if anyone on the committee can possibly tell us what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25790	Mr. Živković 63
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25791	For objective reasons, I was not present at a meeting of the Transport and Communications Commission, since it was parallel to the College of the House of Representatives. However, if I had been on the committee, and I see here that it has been stated that it has been unanimously adopted and is proposed to this Parliament to accept the decision, I would be absolutely against it for several reasons. One reason is that we in this House have been discussing, for at least three years, Highway 5c and there was nothing there. This Parliament has concluded that the Council of Ministers must work according to the Law on Highway 5c and it is very ugly that the last session ends in this way in any way, the story of Highway 5c, which is how it puts cowardly eggs in our hands for us to now prejudge the way this whole business is going to end. I must also remind MPs from Republika Srpska that the Prime Minister said in correspondence with the Council of Ministers, that the whole concession procedure, or the whole project documentation, of the part passing through Republika Srpska, should be assigned to the government of Republika Srpska and discussed at that level. Therefore, I warn them now that we should think this through and not support this decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25792	Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25793	I thank you, unlike my colleague Belkić, I think this, this text of decision doesn't actually say anything. It's very, to say this in general. And you see, let's say that, this subject of decision is the size and kind of concession. There's an object, come on, the object is defined on the highway to Corridor 5c. But you see, he says in terms of the concession, the entire length of the highway or the stock depends on the course of the bidder, and then the kind of concession builds it, manage it and transmit it, and he can take some other form and so on. I know no meaning, no purpose, no need to make such a decision. That's why I agree that it would be a good idea for the promoter to say why this is necessary at all. I think I'm surprised something like this comes without any explanation, without any reason. I don't think we should make this decision at all. We need, brother, a law on road construction, and we need to get past one job. This is for me to draw on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25794	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25795	My colleagues and colleagues, Corridor 5c has not yet been defined or the route has not been defined to the end and is persistently trying to bypass this Parliament. The method of construction and financing is also not the definition until the end and cannot prejudge it to be a concession. I don't agree with what Mr. Živković said. The thing about Corridor 5c is that Deyton is in the jurisdiction of the state, but that's not the subject I've already said this, this point. 64 I represent that Parliament rejects this until the other things around Corridor 5c are cleared to the end, and above all, I would say where the path of this corridor will be because it is in Parliament's jurisdiction and not the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25796	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanović, Mr. Novaković. Here's the word just that this one, so it was a replica Mr. Novaković asked for a replica. I didn't know I thought you were answering again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25797	Well, I just wanted to replicate to Mr. Živković that I didn't state my position because that's what Mr. Milorad Dodik said. So I don't care what Milorad Dodik said, but I care about the government's position in Republika Srpska. So we didn't have the government's position here, but I don't need the government's position to know that position 2. Decisions are absolutely inadmissible, or unacceptable. So it is clear that part of the corridor that goes through Republika Srpska cannot be defined in the way it is defined by this decision and for this reason, so we are not prepared to support the decision. I'm, I think it would be good to return the decision now, given this all, I don't think, but we will, so we will refuse to support this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25798	Thank you. Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25799	Well, we were on the Commission this morning in a bit of a hurry. Here I see that Mr Bajrambašić has arrived, and he was a rapporteur on the Commission this morning. He will probably now say that this decision, that the ministry worked together with the concession commission. And in accordance with the Law on concessions,.. The Parliamentary Assembly should adopt this decision. I say, I repeat, we were a little quick to say 9:00 this morning and we had a few points on the agenda, but here I'm glad Mr. Bajrambašić arrived, so let me say maybe he'll try to explain this, whatever this law contains.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25800	Thank you very much. I'll dati a word to the Ministry's representative if he's there, there is. Please introduce yourselves. So the debate is over. Here's another opinion, if you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25801	I would like first to welcome you and to thank the Commission for the traffic and connections that have supported this project all along and, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly which has given us very important conclusions that have helped us in our work. This decision, taken by the Council of Ministers, constitutes only one of the decisions in the procedure for granting concessions, which includes the Law on concessions. We were already looking for this decision at the Council of Ministers in the early 65th stage there in February, but the Council of Ministers refused, believing it to be a very early phase of the project and until we got the exact results from the feasibility of the study, the Council of Ministers did not want to make such a decision. We are in this decision, in the physibilities of the study that we now have, it is precise that in fact this project is from an economic aspect, so through the borrowing of the state we can carry out, but given the burdens that we have from the aspect of the state's duties, and the inability of its duties, we have been working in parallel with another aspect and it has awarded concessions. We've applied the so-called model here. the partnership of the private and public sector. And, uh, the physibilities of the judges of the sub-terms and the participation of the state. So the entity's involvement. We have defined here that the Federation government would participate with a maximum of 20% in this study itself. It's a built road and what they have to negotiate now. I, I must be honest, was pleased by the RS initiative that they are committed to building Corridor Vc which has not been the case so far. We didn't even have the space or plan defined in RS in this respect and for this reason I think the study can expand and that RS' participation increases to these 20% that we have in the Federation. So, all the greater participation of the public sector, the more attractive the project is for private funding because it reduces risks and makes the project more attractive. After this decision, if Parliament confirms, we, after reviewing the study, are delivering a study to the Concession Commission which gives its opinion whether positive or negatively, on the whole study. And beyond that, it would only then be possible to implement the procedure for selecting concessionaires and signing a contract with international financial institutions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25802	Thank you very much. We had two more requests to discuss. Mr. Belkić, then Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25803	As for my request for further explanation, I received it from Mr. Bajrambašić and as far as that goes, I am satisfied and it will help me determine according to this decision. alui, I want to say a few sentences. Here today, I'm really sorry about maybe making a retrospective of what's going on today. Here today, I'm accused, although here's the man gone, to constantly force something overvote, voting, etc. Today, however, I find it totally incomprehensible to accept anything offered to this parliament. These procedures 104 for some law, Procedural 104 for this, here is the decision that passed the concession law procedure, part of the procedures that we have to do, people are already suggesting that they will not support it, that this is out of the question, that RS has its plans, that RS Prime Minister has recommended that it has its own concept of highway construction, etc. Guys, what's this about? What does this Parliament mean? Can he do anything and what he should do? I'm strong, of course, voting people as they wish but it's really not right to accuse 66 of someone pushing for a vote and today all day press the button, stop, press the stop button and no arguments, no arguments whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25804	The replica of Mrs Milićević, then Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25805	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Actually, it's not, this is an explanation. What's this about? Go, if we vote on procedure 104 at the time of the end of August of the month, before us September, voted regularly or in 104 formally, Mr Belkić, this procedure will actually be regular until the new assembly of Parliament, you will have the same number of days. Eh, I mean this, you don't need to trouble it because it'll come to an argument like it's in a regular procedure. That's the point. That's my reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25806	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić, here's your replica, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25807	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I just want to say briefly, I wasn't, of course, giving a tone, nor thinking of voting in one way or another, but I want to say that we worked productively today. All procedures of the Council of Ministers or 90% of the legal procedures have been accepted. The other thing is whether... the procedure is accepted, but here I am begging you, so I'm asking to be taken care of, someone might be unsatisfactory but I think we're needlessly accusing you, here's a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25808	All right, let Mr. Špirić finish. She was another replica of Mr. Novaković, then Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25809	I think we unnecessarily opened a new story today. Regardless of how anyone voted, we're crossing the agenda and we've been working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all the time it seems to me that we've managed to stay at the level of the Rules of Procedure. And if you're asking me why I was against the procedures of some law, I was because I disagreed with what the law says. So I disagree with extending the Council of Ministers to two ministries because I think it's a transfer of jurisdiction if you ask me. And, anyway, when I was against it, I didn't agree with the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25810	Thank you. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25811	Here's the thing. I don't want to explain why I was against it. I just don't have to explain it to anyone. The problem here is that the Council of Ministers is not the advice of 67 SNSD. So we don't participate, whoever has members has the right to defend them and to support them. It should think carefully in a pre-election campaign and after the elections with which it will go to power and who it will support and thus exercise power in BiH. Therefore, we will not support the decision. This decision is narcissistic and is not in line with our programming.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25812	Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25813	Dear colleagues and colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25814	No more reports, I've concluded the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25815	Let me just say
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25816	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25817	That the Transport and Connection Commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25818	I'm sorry, Mr. Bešlagić. I've sanded Mrs. Sopta who was announced. I apologize to Mrs. Sopta for real.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25819	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Me colleagues and colleagues, just doing the elevation of our commission that has worked today under extraordinary conditions i.e. She worked just before the beginning of the session, to say that the Commission did not go over this issue lightly. The fact that we haven't had time to get this short material yet, to get more information, but we have also asked the general Corridora Vc and within which the Roads Act is mentioned. The rapporteur in front of the Council of Ministers, or in front of this ministry, explained that they were trying to process the Corridor Vc at which, frankly, we have today withdrawn the question of the Law on Corridor Vc. And we're being explained that they're trying to solve it with the Law of Roads that we don't have yet, by the way. So we don't have the Law on Roads, we don't have the Law on Corridor Vc and we make very important decisions like this. We're being explained that it's just a matter of procedure, but I now have one dilemma since the gentleman has discussed it and I have, I haven't heard it right. Now that I've turned this material, the other side, and I see that our memo comes from the Ministry, it's not from the Secretariat of that Council of Ministers, it's from a certain ministry. I am now interested in whether or not it says, a decision signed by Mr. Terzić. I'm interested in whether this decision was approved by the Council of Ministers? If not, I'll withdraw my vote for this, 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25820	Yes, it is, it says it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25821	It says, but he, I say we haven't, was the first time we've had such a memo from this ministry. This is from the ministry, the memo is not from the Council of Ministers' Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25822	Ružo was approved for the 123rd session, to help here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25823	I've read it, but we've been getting it so far, but from the Ministry's memo, not the Secretariat where it was proposed, so it's written, so it didn't go through then. I'm saying that we didn't approach this unseriously. This is explained to us that this is the subject of the general procedure needed for Corridor Vc. I'm also not the one, I'm convinced that whether or not you're going to go under a concession will be subject to another body's re-debate and that this is just a space for procedure to go into some other undertaking to avoid being braked. That's how I understood that argument today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25824	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25825	I'll try to be very brief. I must stress that the Transport and Communications Commission has made an exceptional contribution to defining Corridor Vc and you know that this Parliament has adopted that Corridor Vc is a state project. Even, this parliament insisted that the Law on Corridor Vc be passed in which they participated, I would say all MPs, which in other words does not have a discussion in my opinion to which it belongs. It belongs to the state of BiH. The second thing is that the ministry is trying to get Corridor Vc into the Roads Act, and we said today, we are looking for the Law on Corridor Vc that will give the right to this parliament, future parliaments, to discuss all the elements that will benefit the construction and completion of this Vc corridor. As you know, this commission has also held a public debate on Corridor Vc in this House, in which all those involved have contributed, even one conclusion that the fact that Neuma's question must not be an obstacle to the construction of Corridor Vc. So, I'd say we don't throw in here, I think there was one remark, just one article that the gentleman wrote, that the fact corridor belongs to either the state or if this parliament decides it belongs to the entities, then that's how we do it. Because to me, if he belongs to the state, that the state is obliged to find solutions, and if he belongs to the entities then we know, then in Tuzla, we'll be looking for our own cookies and money to be taken. However, Corridor Vc in this Parliament's decision belongs to the state and should be defined accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25826	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Živković. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25827	It is not at all disputed, it is disputed that we do not have the Law on Corridor Vc and in the Law on Corridor Vc, Mr Belagic we will agree on and what is the draft of this law, which provides for this law, to whom it belongs, entities, municipalities, where it comes out and where it ends, Corridor Vc and everything else. Until we have that law, we're not gonna make any different decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25828	Okay, thank you very much. The debate is closed. We move to a vote on confirming the decision on the subject, scope and type of concession for the construction of the highway on Corridor Vc. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Come on, let's go to the second round. So, the plea, the compliance within the prescribed Rules of Procedure, which is now the College's position. We're going to the 28th agenda. That's Ad.28. Report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission on the work of the BiH Security Agency for the period 4th month 2004, 7th month 2006 You've reached report 27.07. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Joint Security Intelligence Commission's report on the work of this agency. Stand by. Vote now. So, with 25 votes for, without votes against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, we accepted a report on the work of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission for the 4th month 2004. - Seven. 2006. Thank you very much. We're going to the 29th item of the agenda. That's Ad.29. Report by the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period of 1 January of this year until 31.06.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25832	I will absolutely support, of course, the report, the views and opinions of our commission, but it's a little confusing that we're discussing the 2004 report today. Not a word of reason, let's see what happened. I mean, we have a report in September 2004.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25833	Do we have an explanation by the committee in charge? So we don't have any further clarifications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25834	I answered, but I got a little bit, so we discussed the report so when we got it then we started that debate. It was a little late whether or not it was by the Ombusmen, and we had some adjustments, requests, and we wanted to really do it thoroughly, and so here we are now able to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25835	So the ombusmen delivered that report. He'll be in the process. Mr. Sipović. Please, for a moment. Here you are, after I've concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25836	I'll be very brief. I am in principle in favour of the work of the Ombucmen of BiH for the protection of human rights, and it was delivered here in front of this house, and I would like to suggest to the distinguished colleagues as a lawyer that I am giving the view of most citizens that they are getting effective protection from the Ombdusmen of BiH. I don't know for what reasons they are ignored by the institutions of the system, not 71 respect their and positive opinions, and in most cases I advocate that the ombucmen as in all countries act more authoritatively with the institutions of the system in human rights violations. I must tell you that, gentlemen, because I am a practitioner and I have the opportunity to address the citizens and we lawyers to the ombudsmen, and indeed, to me, I regret to say that your opinions and your suggestions on human rights violations do not respect the institutions that have committed human rights violations. You're fully aware of that. In order to preserve credibility, I ask you to play a more active role with international factors, the Council of Europe and other factors that really treat the protection of human rights and, if you want, I consider you as, in practice, lawyers of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the protection of their human rights. I must instruct you, except in principle I support the work of the ombudusmen, to criticise that I did not experience this dignity and authority in your intervention with the competent authorities. That's what I have to tell you and that's what the public and the citizens are all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25837	I thank Mr. Sipović. I also welcome the Ombdusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić and Mr. Safet Pašić. If you'd like, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25838	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of fellow Members, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to explain anything but perhaps not to remain unarranged. This is a report for 2004 and this published report for 2005. As for the conclusions, as far as the situation is concerned, it's about the same as in this and certainly, I have to say it means that the objects in the area dominate, approximately, which have dominated before. The truth is a smaller number from the Annex 7 area, although our conclusion is this year and last year that there is no near-ending return, implementation of a sustainable return to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I appeal to all of you that even in the next one, it means in the campaign in your work after all that much more, that we all commit, meaning that question, because unfortunately I say nothing to me means anything if someone puts themselves at the disposal of just his ruins or something else. These ruins need to be built and ruins built between people. So dominating in this time objects of working relations, I didn't mean to speak especially from certain institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'll be open to say we have a large number, an increased number of complaints from, according to the Directorate for indirect taxation and some others. They dominate the area of pension-inhabitation and our unanimous conclusion is that something must be done in the area. As for that, I can say that after these few reports of ours that were quite sharp, so also here if you saw according to the Council of Ministers that the situation with certain ministries had improved and that it had also improved with some other authorities. I can't say that we're not satisfied, but a respected colleague here is another problem. You know how much this law on the unification of institutions went, and unfortunately there are three levels of resolution, and that is why we believe, if we consider nothing to be the quality of this law on the visible institution of the United Institution of the Ombusmen, which is that the citizen in any territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina was treated in the same way and that in the same way will solve their complaints and simply that it does not mean that man will not have a psychological feeling, a psychological barrier that because he filed in some place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, his case will be viewed differently. 72 I say, therefore, I appeal to you too, I can say that we have had support in our work, unlike the individual institutions, here I must say in the first row of the Council of Ministers, Parliament has supported our reports and supported our work and certainly in the future for us and for some others who are, if they are, instead of us, they will need strong support from Parliament and I agree that we need both more and more to rely on you and simply ask for support in action towards some. So I wouldn't, I don't have much to explain for a long time, I'd thank you for your cooperation, I'd like to wish you all the best and you who will sit back in these benches, that you will continue to support this institution and the people who bug in it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25839	I thank Mr. Ljubić. Well, there's no need, if you insist, but I think enough. Here you go, Mr. Pašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25840	Let me just add something... First question to MP Belkić, we're already sending a second report. We sent the one in time. So that's the answer to your question. And on the question of lawyer Sipović, you see, there is always a confusion in practice about the jurisdiction of the institutions of the ombudusmen. I wish such a question would be referred to entity ombudsmen. You should know that we are overly overseeing the work of state institutions and that we have drawn up a special report on this subject of consideration in this home and that they have conclusions in this regard, that we are supported, we are not at all satisfied with the attitude of state institutions towards citizens or the protection of their human rights against state institutions. That's it. And, therefore, it would be good to refer this issue to the federal ombudsmen, the ombudsmen of the RS who oversee the work exactly in matters concerning you as a public service attorney. And I ask you and I urge you to join us in protecting human rights, you know. Because it could be done a little bit more than a passionate bar of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25841	I thank Mr. Pašić. I think they were useful to these words and the debate was concluded, Mr. Belkić, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25842	Just one sentence. When I mentioned it in 2004, I thought it would be good if we had today in 2005. I didn't claim it was you or me. It just doesn't make sense that it's not good in 2006 for the 2004 report. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25843	Okay, thank you, but we've heard that the issues, the questions and the suggestions here are going to be the same in this report. I think it was a useful development and suggestions that we got today from both MPs and the ombudusmen and the commission. 73 We move to a statement on the Annual Report on the work of the Ombdusmen for Human Rights in BiH and the Commission Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that unanimously with 29 votes in favour, we accepted the Ombdusmen's Annual Report on Human Rights in BiH for 2004. Thank you, everyone. We're going to the 31st point of the agenda. That's Ad.31. Special Report of the Omdusmen on Human Rights in line with the conformity of the Criminal Procedure Act with Article 14(5) of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact And this report was considered relevant, our Human Rights Commission. We got the report. The Commission fully supported the Special Report and adopted the relevant conclusions set out in the Report. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Beriz Belkić, then Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25845	So here I was really interested in this, and this general general report, these special reports, etc., so of course I'm not professional, nor am I thinking of questioning the content of this report, nor do I have the right and I have no doubt that the disputed finding and ombudus is not, that there is no full compliance of our law on criminal proceedings with Article 14 of Article 5 of the International Civil Rights Pact. However, these recommendations, etc. They ignore the following facts that need to be said. I would like to remind you of the Council of Europe Resolution, where certain recommendations to BiH stand, the rest mention police reform, etc. and continue the reform of the judiciary. That's not what you're talking about. So we have one complete stalemate. The resolution sets out the establishment of the Supreme Court of BiH. Of course, we have the next situation, the entities circled the systems. Therefore, the following should be taken into account, that BiH has not completed judicial reform and BiH has no instance of the Supreme Court of BiH. And of course, certain consequences then exist, such as this, I do not claim that it is in direct, completely direct connection to Mr Gligorić's case, etc. but I think it's a fact that needs to be kept in mind and called by the Justice Department, which is to invite us to continue our work on judicial reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25846	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this report you yourself said went through our committee, the subcommittee, the commission, and now it's before us. They saw very 74 professionally, responsible people from the Ombdusmen Institute for Human Rights under the request I made, given that my human rights were at risk at the BiH State Court. It was difficult, it was painful, it was really a struggle against the windmills, but here we have come to the fact that competent people, i.e. institutions, have said that they violated the Civil Rights Pact and the European Convention on Human Rights are members of 6.13 and so on. Here is the question, the one who exceeds our laws, such as the Ministry of Justice, and the Council of Ministers accepts it because it always bears the responsibility of the ministry proposed by law, simply because of the story that we need to accept in the package, what Mr Belkić said, in terms of judicial reform, we should then pass this package of laws and we have received assurances that human rights are not being violated. In the meantime, I experienced it on my own back. I would ask that we accept this report and it is perfectly normal that the recommendations would go to Mr. Belkić in accordance with that request and that, you gave one width, that's fine, but I say, these reports go regularly when it comes to the Ombdusmen for Human Rights, so on the other hand I don't think we're going to lose anything in terms of those recommendations. In any case, I would just like to say in this House that it is at my request, on 20 pages and that it will be precedentd in our judiciary and that it has been found, that we have had a conversation as a subcommittee with the leadership of the Ombdusmen for Human Rights, that we have really respected everything. We have also come up with such stories as Mr Belkić speaks of, with a eloquence. But here at this point we have this report and I would suggest that we don't change it, not supplement it, but simply accept it now as a whole. There, thank you very much. Of course, it's theirs... for which they have the right but I'm saying, to simply be correct with that institution who really faces a lot of problems and to do their job very professionally and responsibly, not really looking at who's in front of them, but if a human right is violated, they stand behind that man and say it's defended by some law, the Constitution of this country and the international convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25848	We all have everything, so plus a report from the Commission. The debate is closed. We move to a vote on the Special Report of the Human Rights Ombdusmen in BiH in connection with the compliance of the Criminal Procedure Act with Article 14(5) of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights with the Commission Report. Stand by. Vote now. The Special Report was unanimously accepted. Thank you very much, very much. 75 We're going to 32nd. That's it, Ad. Thirty-two. Human Rights Ombdusmen's Special Report in BiH on the Law on the establishment and method of reconciliation of the internal debt of the RS and the Law on the Determination and Method of Measurement of the Internal Obligations of the Federation of BiH You have received a report from the Commission on Human Rights and this Special Report. The Commission has also adopted this special report with conclusions which form an integral part of the Commission report. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the Special Report with the Commission Report. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 22 votes in favour, and enough entity majority, we have adopted the Ombdusmen Special Report with the conclusions that form an integral part of the Commission's Report. Thank you very much. We're going to the 33rd item of the agenda. That's Ad.33. Information on export and import licences for weapons and military equipment issued in 2005
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25852	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to thank the MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly who have unanimously supported the formation of this committee. I think that in this year, which was otherwise declared an international year of water and BiH has shown that what is called a compatible advantage of BiH, which is high to say, good water quality and for this hydropotential should not fool us into having no problems in that area. And we've been thinking in our work whether today we should give this report that's something to say, less than he would otherwise be, if we'd gotten an extension of 3 months in our work, which is objective and necessary. Afterward, however, we were afraid that this congregation would no longer be called together and that perhaps some other call would discuss this account. We have had 6 meetings, 1 public hearing and 4 visits to relevant institutions in Sarajevo, Bijeljina, Mostar and Banja Luka. Everywhere we went, we were well received and people listened with interest to what we discussed and I can tell you that they were impressed that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was taking care of this. As I said, the fact is that in BiH we have good water quality and... hydropotential, but something that is not good is our relationship to this wealth that we have. Should everything in BiH be broken first in order to give me a lot more money to fix it than to maintain such a good condition as we now have. The fact is that state regulation or transition and privatisation of business entities have changed the position of BiH in particular. So before the position in which the social sector was practically in social property, polluting social property, or polluting our rivers, we looked at it as something that had to happen. However, in the position where we privatized all economic operators, something called pollution of the natural environment in which we all live, quite on the other hand, is to be viewed. It is necessary to adequately burden these economic operators and financially for the damage they are doing and the fact is that we currently have a principle, I don't know what to call it, the prince of cohabitation or the principle of closing his eyes to a crime that is happening and all because of peace in the house and social peace. We can't ban the operation of 77 factories that don't have certain installed equipment for the simple reason we're going to get social unrest, people who work in these factories, and then we're trying to say, close our eyes before what's going on. However, the commission that could have seen this way extremely extensive and to say an extremely specific problem, we have given the conclusions that are summed up in them 14 at the end, with the contributions that are all here, lie as stated here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Library. These contributions... or no, there were over 20 big books, which are CDs, people who wanted to help us in our work. It's true that most of the waste in our rivers produce municipal of wastewater cities, it's over 70% of the water, since industry doesn't work, but what I wanted to say, and what it doesn't say here is a fact, and we have to agree that the city that's most affected by this, and that's Dobo, which is practically the wastewater collector of the three rivers most polluted in this report, is going through this city and the people who get water, of the rivers that come out of these pools, are the most affected. With this I am pleased with the action of some cities, I see it is in the town of Sarajevo which before the war had a collection of waste water, in the town of Mostar and the announcement is that there will be an increasing number of cities that have a wastewater collector, that the river of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the river Presje, or the river Usora, will be cleaned and that Doboj will also have adequate water. Here is only in a few words, what would describe the work of our commission and I call on the MPs to vote in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25853	I refer to Mr. Živković and I think, and to the members of the commission and him on the obviously conscious and responsible work on important issues for all of us here and for our future. I think this practice should also be promoted in the future in terms of conducting investigative actions on important issues for the health and life of every BiH resident. I'm glad we put this on the agenda today because the job is done. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25854	I join the chairman in assessing the meaning, activity and effort of this commission, I think that everything that we have received here in the material, as the chairman of the Commission has said, is only part of what all the Commission in its work has had the opportunity to consider, or what it has had the opportunity to meet. In that sense, the report itself is entirely acceptable to me. Also, when it comes to conclusions, I find almost all the conclusions acceptable. I say almost everyone, namely, this first conclusion that speaks of the need to create one environmental protection agency, uh, I think that, that it could not be the result of the work of an investigative commission. So it couldn't be a result or a conclusion, after everything that's here, at least what I've been able to read, I haven't gotten the impression from this to get past this, that it's necessary to do this. Or that it's necessary to do this. Now, of course, it means, in principle, that amendments should now be made to the conclusions, etc., which would go to who knows where. So here I don't know if it's possible, therefore, to correct the first conclusion in terms of this, erasing the text with a special accent. So watch out, because you see the text special accent giving a special dose of this. 78 So, if, without text, a special accent is meant, therefore, if the need is determined, if EU guidelines point out, etc., in the area that the Agency needs to, it is not disputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25855	Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25856	I'm sorry I didn't explain all these conclusions. If I have to, and I'll explain every single one of them individually, but because of the fatigue of the MPs and all these sessions, it's impossible to do all of that. So, even I insisted that this first conclusion is done for a simple reason, I will read to you that in the strategic paper on enlargement of the European Commission in the part concerning BiH, it states that BiH has taken certain steps towards protecting the environment but that the problem in their implementation is the follow-up of insufficient human and technical potentials and that the establishment of a well-equipped state environmental agency is a priority in this regard. The EU Council's decision also highlights the need to form an environmental protection agency with the aim of strengthening capacity in the country's area of the environment. In that sense, if we are alive and healthy here and next year, that ministry that is foreseen in this regard, however, even entity ministers have agreed on the agency. It's more of a technical and procedural problem than the transfer of some competences now, so I've only handled the documents that were adopted here. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25857	I didn't seem to have any words at all challenging the need to form an agency, but I disputed that the result of this research should be that. But of course I don't argue at all with the need to form an environmental protection agency. Watch out, that's guidance. So that's my point. So the result of what it says, I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25858	Please, I mean, please, Mr. Špirić. I think Mr. Novaković that we can really accept these conclusions, here if we analyze them a little bit, and this first calls for the EU acquis and not for anything else. So on the standards, and I really want to do this one more time, and congratulations, here I am looking at the conclusions that need to stay, which is one mirror that actually needs to form the approach of an area of general importance in BiH, measures and standards, and I don't think we really need a vaccine here. I propose that we make a statement on the report of the Research Commission to determine the degree of pollution of hydro and ecosystems in BiH. Stand by. Vote now. With 28 votes, without abstentions and against, we accepted this report from the Commission of Investigation. 79 We're going to 35. That's Ad.35. Confirmation of the Regulation on international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly You've got the materials. The Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs at the 20th Joint session concluded that this was our confirmation instructions. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25860	Very short, then. I appreciate the effort the Administrative Commission has made, but I can't help but say that there is actually a substance in this Regulation that obviously doesn't belong to this act. I understand the reason for this regulation but a significant part of it should actually be the content of each other and even acts and even Rules of Procedure. But if it's the mood to support it, I won't be against this, but here's what it says, let it be known, and I think this should have been a little bit more sensitized. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25861	Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the confirmation of the Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Stand by. Vote now. With 26 votes for, without votes against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we have confirmed the rule on international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. We're moving to agenda 35. That's Ad.36. Proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint a member of the Board of Appeals, experts in the field of public procurement You are familiar with the procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of Appeals. The BiH Council of Ministers submitted a proposal to appoint one member to 708, which is Nikolina Silak, as an expert in the field of public procurement. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 80 We move on to a statement on the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, which is Nikolina Silak. Repeat. Glamour. I'll vote for it because Nikola's well-informed. ...for, without votes against and abstentions, we have confirmed the Council of Ministers' proposal and appointed a member of the Board of Appeals of Ms. Nikolina Silak. We're moving to agenda 37. That's Ad.37. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25864	I don't think we should sign a single agreement with Slovenia as long as BiH citizens have to take out visas to go to Slovenia and they can come here freely. I don't think we should sign means as long as that relationship is with the Republic of Slovenia, we shouldn't sign any agreements with them. And I will vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25865	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanović. The word was requested by Mr. Živković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25866	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's a good idea to make sure BiH's citizens feel bad. We received an explanation on the Commission that practically 3 million per month BiH is losing money by taxing the pensions of our pensioners who earned it in Slovenia. It would be good if they asked us to, so we won't until the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka is solved. This is what we're going to do means the opposite of what the interests of BiH citizens are. I therefore ask Mr Jovanović to vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25867	Thank you very much. So there are two dimensions to this question. Certainly one, what Mr Jovanović pointed out, and the same Commission has already warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers that there is a need to have a more precise strategy to regulate relations with Slovenia, but this agreement concerns directly the rights of our people and I think we should support this agreement and the Commission has done so under this agreement. 81 I suggest that we make a statement and give consent, to see how it sits fine in your ear over four years, and if we weren't persistent, we'd already be ruling some other variants totally. I don't have anything against them, just to harmonize the state of relations. We move to a plea and give consent to the ratification of this agreement. Vote now. With 27 votes in favour of, 1 against, without votes to a state-owned, entity-sufficient majority, we agreed to ratify the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes. Thank you very much and we're moving on to the last item of the agenda. Ad. 38. The motion for a resolution tabled by MP Mirsad Sipović was under review yesterday by the Human Rights Commission of Mirsad Sipović's proposal for a resolution. You have received a report from the Commission. You saw that the commission supported the text of the resolution. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Sipović, I'm asking who's in charge of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25868	Well, I have indeed been in a dilemma whether because of the importance of this resolution that I have proposed and with the addition of that constitutionally-ustavno-zakonodavan, I have also given a positive opinion on this resolution, and given that you are familiar with the text proposed by this resolution, the legal basis that I have supported and these certain details, and that the point of the last agenda is and that I see the general mood that you will support unanimously this resolution, in the interest of both Parliament and our capacity as MPs, where we all advocate democratic rights in elections and protect human rights and I think that this resolution will really reflect political maturity and Parliament and political parties, and that there will be guidelines for institutions that will consistently implement the Electoral Law and all European Conventions and all the provisions and the Constitution. If I didn't, I'd have a counterproductive, thank you for understanding, and I think it's a success, no matter what, don't go in. The text of the resolution will be the one proposed. Maybe he's a little too big, too big. I wanted to cut it short, so I thought for a few hours whether to cut it short, but if I cut it short, then it wouldn't have any effect and explanation, without an explanation, and I explained it wouldn't go any further. I thank my colleagues in advance. I express my gratitude for the understanding of the committee members who have given me the support of both of them and of this Parliament, and I believe that this resolution will indeed contribute to the democratic processes in total, especially in the stage of the elections and to the overall democratic process. I don't want any further details. I could talk about a resolution on individual issues if it didn't talk too long and wide, but that would be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-08-29-0.u25869	Thank you very much, Mr. Sipović. A little more patience. Thank you very much. So, two commissions have been considering it. You have a report from the committee responsible, it's the Commission on Human Rights, and I suggest we move to a statement on the resolution with a report from the committee responsible. 82 I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. With 25 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned and enough entity majority, I agree that we have accepted the motion for a resolution of MP Mirsad Sipović, with a report from the committee in charge. Thank you very much. At 17 hours and 10 minutes, I conclude the work of the 84th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
