ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25068	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening 83th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the representatives at the session, our regular guests are invited to attend. In order to discuss their reports, representatives of the High Court Prosecutor's Council and the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who I also welcome, as well as representatives of associations which are, the savings association which are here for the agenda item on the revision of the Old Foreign Savings Act. According to the Service report, I find there are 35 MPs, 21 from the Federation and 14 from Republika Srpska. The absence from the session justified Mr Mehmed Žilić, Adem Huskić, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Mehmded Suljkanović, for the time being. I don't have any other excuses. And Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija reported that he was going to be late for the session for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation to the session, you've received a draft agenda. Meanwhile, the session's call so far has been subject to the entry into the agenda of other points, so the agenda is complemented in the following way. First Topana – Request of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Second Supplement – The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Communication Act, also in accordance with the procedure of Article 105, the Third Top – The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure and Fourth Supplement – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading, the proposing representative of Momčilo Novaković. We have informed you in due time about the inclusion of these materials, so I ask for your understanding and I am convinced that you are ready for discussion. The last item was added – Credit agreement The Hospital Modernisation Project between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federation of the Government of Republika Srpska and Export Import Bank of Korea and 2 Credit Agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain for crediting the purchase of slope trains for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina railways. The agenda was downloaded – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, in the light of the fact that the committee in charge did not meet in good time and the MPs received the report late. He also agreed with a joint consensus that because of the scope of the agenda today, no point is being discussed – Agents' questions and answers, and that MPs can still ask their questions in writing today. You've received an updated draft agenda and I'm opening a debate. Mr. Elmir Jahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25069	...human rights isn't that she wasn't in a timely session, she was in a timely session. She had to wait until the period for the amendment to be submitted, and only after that we could sit, but from that commission to the Parliament session had to go 48 hours, so we couldn't do it. So the appointment was Saturday, we couldn't schedule a session on Saturday, but we had to do it Monday, and from Monday to today it wasn't 48 hours for the lecture of additional amendments. So that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25070	I thank Mr. Jahić for his clarification. Before I give my word to Mr. Sipović, then to Mr. Andrić, I would like to inform you that there have been several more procedural and time issues related to some other laws such as the Law on Medicinal Products which also did not arrive on time so that we can say that the next session of the House of Representatives, regardless of the holidays and election campaign, will be held after 20.8 and that you plan to do so. We'll have to work and hold sessions. Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25071	Mr. Chairman, I am using my parliamentary right and constitutional right to respect the situation that the agenda is very large and pragmatic that some points of the agenda have been removed from today's session. I don't think it's right to remove the agenda point – MPs' questions and MPs' answers. I suggest that it remain as a point, because within that point, some MPs, and I personally want to comment on the answers and ask the question. On the other hand, I am the chairman of the Office and the Secretary of the House, and also to you to whom it has been forwarded, the media and representatives of the international community have submitted a proposal for a resolution and the text of the resolution, which has been submitted to you with one proposal, given that the large part of the agenda is, today, a lot of agenda points to suggest that this item be classified as a item of the agenda, that this high House be only familiar with the content to be shared, and that at the next session of the House of Representatives, it is discussed and to take a position on the proposed text of my resolution. It is a violation of the legal, constitutional and human rights in the implementation of the democratic 3 electoral process under Annex III of the Framework Peace Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all those international acts that I have cited in the resolution during the run-off phase. I think, I find my proposal very attractive in that part that only this home is aware that it is a very current issue ahead of the upcoming elections, and that later when the debate is opened before the House, the text of the resolution can be corrected, supplemented or in some form asked to be adopted. I also initiated such a resolution, given the political importance and importance of this issue that I also raised as an advocate to discuss it and the House of Peoples, given that our Parliament is drawn up, the two-member Parliament, and that it is always fine and normally religiously imposing that a complete Parliament should discuss some current political important matter in which protection of fundamental human rights and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is guaranteed. I would think from that point of view that my proposal is acceptable to supplement the agenda, just to get to know that MPs are familiar with the content of this, and that the debate on the proposed text of the resolution is led to the next session and that such a conclusion is made by the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25072	I thank Mr. Sipović. The word is Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25073	I would also like to propose the addition of the agenda to one conclusion which the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina would oblige the Council of Ministers to immediately suspend the further admission of officials and deputies to ministries, as it seems absolutely unreasonable now at the end of the term of office when we have two months until the elections, counting on there and on annual holidays that someone has now thought of massing the ministries and thus leaving one burden to the next Council of Ministers, or to the next Parliamentary Assembly, who will probably decide whether to leave or not, and I am free to judge that the only motive for such treatment may then be to buy new votes in the acquisition of people for personal candidacy and for their own parties. So I think this conclusion would be for everyone's benefit. I've written the conclusion, signed in writing, and I'm going to deliver it, and I'm asking you to make a statement on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25074	I thank Mr. Andrić. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. I'd like to ask the honourable MPs who were at the Extended College to stick to the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25075	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dam and gentlemen, that's just one suggestion. I remain with what we agreed on at the Enlarged College and I suggest that my colleagues adopt it, but in part of the parliamentary issues I said there I will say that at the next session we should certainly leave the possibility of the agenda point, respecting the reasons why we are not going with the second item of the agenda today, because you simply have the need for citizens to ask you a question and for you to have relations with the citizens, I think we should have the opportunity to send a parliamentary question to the authorities at the next session and that here today we respect these reasons. Thank you, but this must be for the citizens' sake. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25076	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25077	Thank you, Chairman, I do not know what the motive of the College, or the Expansive College, is to simply do this part of the agenda – questions and answers. I don't know if you have a legal basis for it. You're establishing the agenda, but I don't think I've looked into whether you have a legal basis for doing it. I personally had several questions, especially issues concerning the execution of some decisions by this Parliament, and very important decisions. I personally believe that the Kolegijum bears great responsibility for this matter. The issue of public service and the transfer of Parliament's sessions, a year ago and something made a decision in that direction. College, I have information that he disagreed about it, some say they were for, others against it, etc. I usually don't have any information that I think is relevant. The second thing, this parliament has made a decision to approach the draft Budgetary Law, on the salaries of budgetary users. This is a very important issue for the joint institutions. This is a very important issue, especially what he has found to be an x-way for individual institutions within the common institutions to establish their own salaries. So things happen almost without control. I don't know what he did to the College in that direction, so that decision is over a year old. And there are a number of other questions that could be spoken of. Let's say it's a very interesting law on the highway that Parliament has also unanimously accepted to ask the Council of Ministers to approach the making of the Law on the Highway. The question arises if it is transferred to the next parliament and does not pass such a law – is this country able to spend billions without law. And it seems to be. To talk about the rule of law, and Kolegijum behave like that. Of course, the Kolegijum was very zealous, very active when it was meant to travel around the world. Especially some members of the College. But for questions like this, they didn't have action components to push the thing to go right away, not to stay like this, of course, we've now come to the election campaign, and they should even deny the MPs and ask them questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25078	Here, Mr. Kunić, thank you, but you're all you're about to say, so you're allowed to say about this speaker and in front of all the MPs and in front of the public, so nothing is questionable. Everything you are and that's beyond the agenda point so I don't know who's running the election campaign, I don't want to go into that kind of story at all. The College can't order a public TV service, regardless of several meetings and requests to transfer, because there is no legal basis, they claim technical assumptions and that responsibility to transfer to the College why there is no TV, I mean at least it's not correct. And as far as the Council of Ministers' relations are concerned, it is not just a matter of the College, we are on several occasions discussing, the stakes of this Parliament and have found to be the extent to which the Council of Ministers' conclusions have been realized towards this Parliament. And for the last time in the last session, we requested a report from the Council of Ministers on these issues. All right. The rational reasons prevailed over this and it was decided, not by this college in a narrow line, but by representatives of all political parties and clubs and the Independent Club, the Mixed Club. So here, it wasn't any intention to deny anyone, it was a common judgment. 5 I conclude the debate if there is no further discussion of the agenda. Let's get to the bottom of the agenda first. Before I give my word to Mr. Sipović, Mr. Sipović, about your initiative. Please wait just to read the Rules of Procedure. Could you sit down, please, you didn't get the word. I just want it to mean that your initiative, the resolution is in line with the Rules of Procedure, Article 121, where it is said that the House can express its position to relevant political issues, social issues, it is necessary to establish the policy guidelines to be implemented by the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, or by other institutions and under 2nd, that each representative can submit a motion for a resolution, and the motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House meeting unless the House decides that it is necessary before, that the commission is previously considered. And this is about the previous question, and the House needs to be made aware of whether your resolution will refer to the committee in question. As soon as she enters the procedure and after the hearing has been held on the commission, she comes to this house for debate. Here's an explanation about your initiative. Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25079	Chairman, I'm gonna replicate you a little bit. Well, by your argument, I'm practically not allowed to launch the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25080	It's the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sipovic. That's my secretary at home.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25081	You later interpreted the Rules of Procedure, and then you told me if Dom decided whether to refer to the parliamentary procedure at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25082	I ask the Secretary of the House to read the Rules of Procedure precisely, because I do not interpret the Rules of Procedure, but I read it, which is why the Secretary of the House is in charge. So I didn't intend to do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25083	Let's get this straight first. Do I have the right as an advocate to propose an extension of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25084	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25085	Do I have the right by Article 121, as it's called? 121, 122 and 123. Should I propose a resolution?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25086	Yes, you do. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25087	In the last article you said, the House will decide to accept a review of the resolution, whether to refer to the opinion of certain committees previously. This argument that you gave me turns out that I have no right to propose a resolution today.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25088	You're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25089	But I have explained because of the scope of the agenda and another proposal, what the esteemed colleague Kunić said if you cancel, if it was taken down by the College's decision to keep the question – MPs' questions and answers, I will remind you that the College practically assumes competence to channel, to structure the full conduct of the procedure in front of this home. That it practically does not make it impossible for a representative to ask a specific question. These were constant questions and I think if that question were lifted, then as a representative I don't see the purpose of sitting in front of this house if I don't, I told the chairman, I was very simple and pragmatic, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25090	You have a word. I give you my word every time and you can say anything you want. Go ahead. Please, colleagues, I am asking you, this is a very serious issue that is important for this country, for this home, and if this home prevents me as a representative of that right, I will, I have the absolutely moral right to seek immediate intervention and inform the High Representative of the international community, Mr. Švarc Šilingo, on the obligation to implement Annex III of the Dayton Agreement, its implementation of the current BiH acquis. And this resolution is only in favour of this and for the reason that the media has been informed that the Commission, the Central Election Commission, has given me an unsatisfactory answer that it is not competent to intervene in cases where harsh violations and discrimination of the right to run. Gentlemen, this is an extremely important democratic process that binds you to Annex III of the Dayton Agreement and all international declarations and the European Convention. I think that the House can do so much to conclude today that it realizes that my procedure, that my proposal for the text of the resolution enters into the discussion of the introduction, and that at the next session, it is discussed. If they're gonna argue about it, it's home again. It's a matter of political maturity and everything that behaves as a public function. And I would ask that by some interpretation, I would only ask you the spirit of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure cannot be contrary to constitutional rights of MPs and general declarations. Then I don't see the point of sitting here in this high house unless we allow it. The College also has the right to propose, i.e. to remove certain points of the agenda. I'd just ask for the seriousness of the situation where, I would really ask you not to underestimate what I said. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25093	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the College of the House, just to get out of this situation, I would like to remind you that this is not the first time that we have a motion for a resolution tabled by MPs as mandated promoters in accordance with Article 121, and we have always acted absolutely the same way. The reason is the provision of Article 121, point 2, which is decadent – any representative may submit resolutions. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the commas unless the House decides it is necessary to consider the commission first. So the essence and the first question, we call this a transitional question, is the right question – who is for the House to be shown on the issue, who is in favour of having a preliminary resolution already in the parliamentary procedure referred to the competent commission today. If this is a positive position to be addressed to the competent commission, then it goes to the competent commission. If this is not decided today, this resolution shall be put on the agenda. So far, it's been a rule of conduct we go to the competent commission, there's a report from the competent commission and a motion for a resolution with a report from the commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25094	Okay. Mr. Sipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25095	I have to intervene. Interpreting law is a very subtle business. And please there can't be cured from context. First, it is undeniable that I have the right to submit the resolution. The resolution is coming. And then Dom decides when he accepts her to discuss it, decides at that stage whether to forward her to the House. Therefore, in this context, I am asking the Secretary of the House to interpret the norm that it cannot be interpreted restrictively to deny the right of the representative to submit the resolution. And I made a very correct suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25096	It's not a dispute, Mr. Sipović. We will plead, this home will today declare the inclusion of your resolution in the agenda or the sending of a commission. Nothing's disputed. I can't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25097	And the addition point to the agenda. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25098	So if the MPs accept it then there'll be a agenda point, if they don't accept it, they'll go to the commission. So it's not my call, it's Dom's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25099	Now I agree with such a procedureal one.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25100	Well, it's like that all the time, I mean, it is. Okay. Any other objections? I'm concluding a debate on the agenda and we have two requests on the agenda. So there is the first proposal for a resolution by Mr Mirsad Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25101	...to reach a conclusion today to refer to the committee responsible and to discuss it on the next. Let me just help, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25102	Okay. Who is to do this, I ask the MPs to prepare themselves for a plea, who is in order for Mr Mirsad Sipović's resolution, which was delivered to you in writing and according to his proposal, and according to the Commission's proposal to be included in the procedure and directed to the competent commission for consideration. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. He realizes we're 20. Just to repeat this vote. With 29 for, 3 abstentions, no votes against, accepted. You want us to vote again. Mrs. Komšić has requested that the vote be repeated. I'm asking the MPs to get a hold of each other. Vote now. So the same is the result of the vote, 29 for, 3 abstentions, no votes against. The proposal for this resolution, Mr. Sipović, is addressed to the committee responsible. The College will today, this will be my proposal today to determine the relevant committee and inform the applicant of the resolution and to set deadlines for the debate. Thank you very much. We are going to the second proposal by Mr Filip Andrić to include in the agenda a point that would mean the adoption of a conclusion by this House concerning a request by the Council of Ministers to suspend the admission of new staff to the establishment of power after the October elections. I ask the MPs to prepare for the plea, as a point of the agenda to enter, yes. Vote now. I conclude that with 23 votes for, 13 from the Federation, 10 from RS, the sufficient entity majority was accepted by this proposal to include this conclusion proposed by Mr Filip Andrić on the agenda. 9 I thank you and thus move on to the realization of the agenda. I have to read it for a stenogram even though it's large. I'm asking the representatives for patience. 1. Journal of the 82nd Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 3. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer Momčilo Novaković), 4. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report on the Proposal for a Law on the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer Momčilo Novaković), 5. Report from the Commission from the College on the attempt to reach an agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions between Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer of Representative Jelina Đurković), 6. Application by Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act under Article 105. Rules of Procedure (Law of 07.07.2006), 7. Novaković for a Bill on Value Added Tax in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 A request by Representative Milorad Živković to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Safety and Traffic on the Roads of BiH under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the reconciliation of obligations under the account of the old foreign Filip savings Andrić to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 11. Request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Central Bank Act under the procedure of Article 105, 12. Request by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Communication Act under the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 13. Request from the SDS Club representative to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax pursuant to the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 14. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on electronic signature following an emergency procedure, Article 104. Immigrants, 12 / 15 Request by the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act under the procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with a Report from the Commission on Finance and Budget (Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH), 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Law of 17.05.2006, 18. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Law of 29.05.2006, 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Border Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations based on an account of old foreign exchange savings - first reading (proposer Tihomir Gligorić), 10 21. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer Momčilo Novaković, 22. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proponents Milorad Živković and Momčilo Novaković, 23. Proposal for a law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Information Society Agency (first reading), 24. Proposal for a law on the rights and duties of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – first reading (proposers – group of MPs), 25. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, 26. Annual Security Intelligence Platform for Bosnia and Herzegovina, 27. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council for 2005, 28. Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and international commitments for 2005, 29. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General for 2005, 30. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, 31. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 32. Proposal for a conclusion by the party's representative for BiH for the establishment of a commission to investigate civilian casualties in the area of the General Prijedor in the period 1992-1995, 33. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the general principles of Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in EU programmes, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Austria on Financial Cooperation, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the return of their own nationals and foreigners whose stay is illegal and the Protocol for the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the reading of their own nationals and foreigners whose stay is illegal and the Protocol for the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bank of Croatia and the Government of the Bank of the Republic of Croatia (Nazina NC) and the Agreement on the Credit Fund of 15.665.42 euros – Credit Fund of Bosnia and Herzegovina (A. The House's decision as the 34th item of the agenda included a proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Filip Andrić, which is being instructed by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to immediately suspend the admission of new officials, seconded in all ministries until the government is established after the October elections, that means 34th item of the agenda. Thank you very much. We move on to the realization of the agenda, that's the first point, that's the Ad.1. Record of the 82nd Session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a discussion on the record. Mrs. Sopta, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25104	Thank you for your kind word. I'd like to ask you, given that today's item of the agenda of the Question and the answers of the MPs has been removed, I would ask you to invite the service to organise the collection, the questions in writing, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25105	Thank you very much. So all MPs today who want to ask a question in writing can and the services will take those questions. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25106	A little technical correction in the record. In fact, the formulation of my question is obviously about a manuscript that wasn't read. The last sentence in the record says: research on the approach so far would be an expression of non-domestic behavior. Actually, instead of the word research, I wrote perseverance. Obviously it was inaccessible, so here's what I want to make a record of, although with a request like this obviously the parliamentary question went further, but it doesn't matter. It's important that at least this is registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25107	Thank you very much. I think this correction is justified. Any more interventions on the record from the 82nd session. Mr. Sipović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25108	I'm just principled. I would ask the service, if the MP asks certain questions, so if the service is not clear that it formulates the right question to consult a representative because I would not now elaborate more widely, I have a comment on mine, my question has not entered into the important content part of the form in which it was intended to enter, so I would ask, in order not to open the debate, I have spoken a lot of 12. Next time, unless the service is clear to invite an MP to authorise his question and forward it to the institutions. Because of this, it is very important that the institutions to whom it is addressed responds.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25109	Okay. Thank you very much, but you know that every question, regardless of whether it is asked in oral form at the House session, must also go in written form by the representatives addressed, in addition to the oral part and this part when I refer to the Secretary of the House and the Service to ensure authorization with the MPs. Any other objections to Zaisnik? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on the record. Please enter the minutes of the 82nd session of the House of Representatives. Vote now. They unanimously accepted the minutes with 30 votes, adopted the minutes from the 82nd session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. Moving to the 2nd point of the agenda, that is, Ad2. Commission Report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act under the procedure of Article 104. The compliance report you received. Consent has been reached, as I am reporting to the House and I agree that the Council of Ministers has adopted a request for the proposal to be considered under the shortened procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Moving to the 3rd point, that's Ad.3. Report by the Commission on the attempt to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer of Representative Momčilo Novaković)
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25113	Yes, it is. We vote for, against, abstention. It decides which ones are against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25114	So everyone's voting. You can vote for, against, or abstention, and decide the votes that are against. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote on the Commission Report. Vote now. Yes, it is. So we're pleading on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. We have demands to repeat the vote. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So the report has a general majority, no entity from the Federation. We're in the same situation, right? Round two. Now we're going to the second round of pleas. Only those who are against it vote. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Okay, let's go. Let's go, let's go, So we have 2/3 against it. If you insist, Mr. Blagojević, we will repeat, insist. Okay, we have a request for a second-round vote. So it's the ones who are against it. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So we have 11 votes against the RS entity. The Constitutional and Legal Commission report was not accepted. A new report should be submitted to the Dom’s Rules of Procedure. The only thing I can say from the board of directors. We're finishing this fourth item of the agenda. Moving to 5, that's Ad.5. Commission Report to the College on an attempt to reach an Agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions of BiH, in first reading, is proposed by representative Jelina Đurković You've been delivered a report. The college's consent is unanimity, so let's go to the second round of voting, since it was in the first reading. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. In the second round, those who are against each other declare themselves. So please vote all about the law means, and then we'll determine the situation. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Please, MPs, I'm really trying to meet all your demands, but this one, when a vote is announced to be prepared. Only if there are technical problems in the vote then. 14 So we are voting on the Law on concessions of BiH, Proposer of Representative Jelina Đurković. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So the law has a general majority, no Federation entity, and now we're going to the second round of voting. And now, in the second round of voting, votes that are against. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. And the law was passed in the first reading, it wasn't 2/3 against. Shall we plead in the second reading? So please, we have a request for Dom to manifest himself, if we're going to go to another reading. So now Dom decides if we want to go to another reading. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So now it's only those who are against the second reading today. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. So there's no 2/3 against any entity. Let's go to another reading. I'm opening a debate on this law in a second reading. First, MP Jelina Đurković reported, followed by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, Mrs. Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25116	It is about the Law on concessions and amendments in Article 12(3) of the Law on concessions in which this is actually said. Applications, requests are being considered and are being decided by at least four members of the commission, one of whom is a representative, no, no, I lost it somewhere. Wait a minute. It is said that there is no majority in the current law as the position of 3 12 members is defined, as it is said, they can make a decision of four members of 7 present, and if one is not able or dead, I do not know who put such a definition into that law, then I can make a decision by 3 members. My proposal for an amendment is that the decisions are made by five members, so that, if they were fulfilled, God Bog, there will be four left, which is a simple majority. So this is about every decision being made by a simple majority, so four members from seven who make up the commission. That's the essence of my change. There. I hope it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25117	Thank you very much. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25118	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25119	Thank you. Mr. Belkić. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25120	Well, after Mrs Đurković's explanation, I am even more strongly convinced that it was not necessary to vote for these changes and additions. But otherwise, our definition when it comes to the stranka for BiH, according to initiatives that go towards changing and amending the Law on concessions, is therefore about the amendments proposed by Mr Novaković. We have discussed this on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we have received information, i.e. I have obtained information that at the level of the Commissions of Entity and State concessions there are comprehensive amendments and additions to the laws which will practically be before the Council of Ministers these days and I think that by adopting these individual, partial changes and additions we will open up complications in the purity and harmonisation of the law. That is why, by appreciating, of course, all these initiatives, we will not support the law in any other reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25121	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr Nikola Špirić, please welcome the second vice president of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25122	..that I have actually declared and agreed on, say, a second item of the agenda, where the Council of Ministers is seeking a shortened procedure of the Customs Tariff Act, even though I filed a request three months ago and if we adopt this, what I have submitted is no longer valid because it does not apply to the same law. I just want to say how much we care about what we do, and to God, we're giving it to the Council of Ministers. I think this amendment, Mrs Jeline Đurković, is technically a correct amendment for the reason that the Commission for concessions at the state level can come into a situation that it cannot decide. So he only prevents the theoretical possibility of not getting into that situation. Why don't we improve the law? Well, that's the only way we're waiting for the Council of Ministers and we've seen the weakness of the law. So he can't be against anyone in the decision-making system either, so please, I think this is a short change, and that's why I supported Article 105's procedure. I don't see any reason to wait for the Council of Ministers, so we don't remove the weakness that the MP sees. That's all there is to it. Thank you very much, I will support this change of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25123	Thank you very much. We have Mr. Sipović, so Mrs. Đurković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25124	Well, as a man of law, I absolutely see that the foundation of such a proposal is, I think it's really unresonable to be against such a proposal. I mean, regardless of the essence, it doesn't touch, it just improves the text and even introduces legal standards, which is as normal as it can decide. I mean, I'm taking mine out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25125	Thank you. Mrs. Đurković. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25126	I want to thank Mr. Sipović and challenge Mr. Belkić's position. This is really about a very simple change. It's about respecting the principle of the majority, the simplest majority, and nothing more. This is a very important committee. And it is very important that this democratic principle of the majority applies. That's, that's actually the only reason I'm putting up with this amendment, sorry about the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25127	Thank you very much. The word was requested by Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the first deputy president of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25128	Dear colleagues and colleagues, things aren't as simple as they seem at first sight. In the existing Law on concessions, the decision-making method is prescribed and that decision-making means the appropriate type of majority. With this amendment, we can be in a position for the Commission for concessions to be blocked in its work because watch out, a provision is proposed that does not stand in any of the Rules of Procedure, not a single body in this country, which says, if a member is unable to perform a social or die, in the process of considering the decision-making process is suspended until the election of a new member. This parliament has been without one MP many times, without two MPs but has worked, we have not suspended our work until a new MP is elected. This could lead to the concession committee's blockade and the club, please nice I'm talking now listen to me, I've been listening to you, the SDA Club won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25129	Thank you very much, sir, please all of you will be given a word in a row and this one, Mrs Đurković first answered. I ask the MPs that when they get the word, they get off their benches and not before. Mrs. Đurković, then Mr. Sipović, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25130	Here, I'll read exactly what the change is. Applications and requests for approval or review shall be subject to review by the Commission pursuant to this law and shall be decided by at least 5 members of the Commission. If a member is unable to perform or die in the resolution process, four remaining members of the Commission may decide unanimously. Now, this is the member of Mr. Džaferović who's on the agenda. And this one, he's not in the process because he's obviously been misdelivered to you. And what if that one doesn't give Bog? Then it has to stay, actually it has to be most of the four. Someone's done it before, I wish they didn't have this to die, but some smart guy's already done it, and I didn't want to overlook...possibility, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25131	Here we go. Let's be a little rational. Mr. Sipović, please. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25132	Well, here's the reason why a respected colleague, Džaferović, presides over the doma, is not to accept your argument that has no basis either in sound logic or legal logic. Please excuse me, I do not accept such inferiority that no MP can launch an initiative to amend and supplement the law, any law and quality. We in a situation like this, when we are served by the Council of Ministers, we apriors must accept, and when some MP from any political party, if good is good, quality, I cannot human against it, against sound logic. I'm sorry, I cannot vote against such a quality, well-founded, healthy, resonated and highly important issue in this country for the citizens of BiH. And I have to react that it's not based on a healthy logic. And against that, then we'll come, I've been in a very important debate, when I've proven what would lead us to logic if we didn't protect this amendment that was adopted in this. I beg your pardon, and thank my distinguished fellow Members of Parliament for the support that most, unanimously 29, I thank them very much, who have given my resolution in the interest of this Parliament and these citizens to enter. And that's how I'm going to act, support, and act in the spirit of the positions of the busy, my political parties, but I can't for something that doesn't have a healthy logic.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25133	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, do you have any other Mr. Novaković here?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25134	Thank you. There's nothing. I think Mrs. Đurković explained a little because it seems to me that we did not have the same laws in front of us, according to what Mr. Džaferović said, at least to me. It seems quite logical to me, that out of the 7 members of the Commission, some decision to be taken should be four members, given that it is a concession. So it's not about minor decisions, it's about extremely significant decisions, and that's why we're going to support this proposal at the SDS Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25135	Thank you very much. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25136	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I have the text in front of me of the amendment law and additions of the Law on concessions of BiH, signed by a respected colleague Jelina Đurković. The law was passed in the BiH Parliament on 10.03.2006 and the text of the Law has two members. And, the first member of the dispute, in my opinion, reads; in the Law on concessions of BiH, "Official Messenger" number: 32/02 of Article 12, paragraph 3, the last sentence is changed and it is said – this is a suggestion that the future text of Article 12, paragraph 3, reads - if a member is not able to perform a duty or die in the process of consideration, the decision-making process is suspended until the election of a new member, the closed sign of the alleged. I am merely warning that this is a provision relating to the decision-making procedure in the Commission and that this kind of provision in the decision-making procedures of any authority in this country does not exist so far. And that is why he reiterated, the SDA Club, at yesterday's session, made a decision not to support this law and we are against this law. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Đurković. Come on, please, we're in another reading, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25138	It really happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25139	Here we could only argue if there were amendments
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25140	It really happened that he was let into the procedure first, but I pulled him out before he actually did, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25141	Different texts.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25142	So different texts and the one I read goes, that's the official one that's in the process. Therefore, the one Mr. Džaferović read, he was withdrawn. He's not the one in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25143	The truth is Mrs. Đurković has officially requested a withdrawal, and it is approved.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25144	Well, are we clear now? Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25145	Thank you. Are there any more reported? There isn't. We are in the second round of statements on the second reading, I, I apologize, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on concessions of BiH, representative Jeline Đurković. We're pleading on the bill's proposal in the second reading. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So he has a general majority of the RS entity, no Federation. Good in the business period shall be determined whether there is an agreement or not. Moving to the next item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The request of Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija, selo Bešlagić to consider the proposal for a law on additions to the Value Added Tax Act, by a hasty procedure, means Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Law of the 7th year I will remind you, SDP MPs, have submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the VAT law in the procedure following an attempt by the Finance and Budget Commission to bring 19 together with the applicants all proposals in one. Unfortunately, there has been no compromise, so we now have several legislative proposals on amendments to the VAT law. Therefore, SDP representatives have pooled their proposals in this request for consideration and adoption under the procedure of Article 105. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Jozo Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will indeed after this introduction and after an opportunity in the last year to discuss in this house on several occasions the attempt to amend and supplement the VAT Act, I will not, of course, harass you by re-assuming the need to amend this law, nor will I take away our time and what we have already talked about, about all the advantages and disadvantages of this tax law on additional value. Let me just give me four reasons to say which one of us has chosen to try this change again in a way by procedure 105. The first reason is that we have the fact that for over 60 years in the tradition of BiH we have one expressed sensitivity, to say according to a particular group of people or problems in BiH. It's health, it's poverty, it's information, education and culture. It seems to me the areas we've always had in the last 60 years have a certain sensitivity. And that's exactly the group I'm going to say that's being treated in a proposal to amend and supplement this law. The second reason for this is the fact that in the last year, something or more, since the adoption of the VAT Act itself, we have continued initiatives from this home in an attempt to improve this law. We have here if one 6-7 or more amendments to the law, including the Council of Ministers' proposal, would be added. And, mostly, they revolve around the same essence, which suggests that frankly, most colleagues and colleagues in this House are to improve this law. The third argument, which has defined us for this, is the information we discussed a month ago about the effects of VAT. In addition, we had information that we had an unexpectedly high VAT-based surplus income and that this amendment and the addition of the VAT law would cost significantly, significantly less than already achieved VAT-based revenue surpluses. And the fourth reason I don't owe it is to try to regain dignity, self-respect to this Parliament. You see, we have never, in reason, received more opinions from an institution on the amendment and addition of a law, as regards VAT. The latest opinion of the OHR Direct Taxation Authority is indeed offensive to this parliament. Please, we have a warning that by amending the VAT law, we could question constitutionality. So that we may, as Parliament, come to the Constitutional Court with such an amendment to evaluate the constitutionality of such one, the adoption of the law. So please, the Parliament that passed the law does not have the right to amend that law without the opinion of one institution because my Bog, calling for some agreement, is not some agreement, but beware of the agreement, not of the law, not of the Constitution, but of the agreement reached by the entities. Well, that's especially what I want to finish this story because I know there's nothing from it. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25148	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25149	I'd like to welcome my colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, no one who wants as much social justice in BiH should be against a law like this, but I thought that my colleague Križanović would not elaborate the content of the law itself but the need to go after 105th, and I would only limit myself to that part of why I'm not 105. Because I'm not for these six. I may be for all six but partly. For some, I am completely. So, I think the ladders or the rocks or how that, the ladder as it's called, can't be done by sticking six nails in one place. But if 6 were to be deployed to 6 sides, we'd get 3 rocks. And I think that this, and the SDP Club and everyone else who imagines themselves, and we all need to fix this VAT law, we should do an item per item. I think we'll go faster than this. I find this too extensive, especially some of these points in terms of here, pornography, in terms of art. So there should be one standardisation that will decide whether there are pornographic magazines in BiH, or not. So I'm not going to get into the essence right now. I'm overextended by these six points so I can decide this goes for 105. If it went into another procedure, I would support it. And I'm here consulting on the speedy members of the club, they're thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25150	Thank you. Mr. Križanović, then Mrs. Majkić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25151	I agree with my colleague Zorić, that I talked a little bit about the need for this procedure, and I left it out for the simple reason that I once said in a general sentence that we talked a lot about this. We've been talking for a year. I think a lot of this has already been selected, and we thought this was a necessary minimum that has full financial coverage in the current situation. That was the reason for procedure 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25152	Gospodja Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25153	Well, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Chairman. I would like to say a few words because of and state in fact the reason why it was very difficult for the Commission to make any decision when it comes to all these proposals. And today, I don't think it's rational to talk on the subject that this means six, so six groups of products and services in line with the 105th attitude, and I don't think it would make any sense to make this kind of decision because we don't know the most important thing. We don't know how much it costs. Freeing the products of services used by folk cuisine in providing its services is a unfavoury formulation. I know that people's kitchens need to be freed from the obligations of this, but in 21 of these insufferable formulations of products and services used by folk cuisines it is necessary to specify more precisely than this. Who knows who could be in this. That's one reason. Second, a large scale of learning that is also too large under point 6 and I don't know if it's possible that it's just costing everything 80 million. And at the end of the day, the hardest case for me is that, however, we have to wait, no matter how much we didn't like it, because we made such a decision that we have to wait for the decision of the Management Board of indirect taxation which is the only one responsible and measurable to say whether it's okay or not. Otherwise, please, otherwise I as an MP coming from Republika Srpska have no right to vote against my own budget. I have no right to vote in the end or against the budget that we have brought here. With this attitude, one would question all of this. For any position when it comes to VAT, we need much more analysis, much more seriousness, and ultimately to know what the real effects of introducing VAT are. Until then, I don't think it makes any sense to talk to any of these proposed laws in Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25154	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to support my colleagues, Mr Križanović, Bešlagić and Lagumdžija, and I think it is hypocritical to talk here about us not knowing or not being able to accept it now, because we have been talking about this for exactly one year and we are absolutely clear, but we understand that we do not want to help the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Especially when I want to highlight a statement or words from OHR. They are full of the mouths of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and all they do is make it harder for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They say for the first time we have funds, extra funds based on this collection of VAT. We took a billion and a half off that poor girl. And now we're in a position to brag about it. And they say we stopped the gray economy. You didn't, take away what you took from the poor girl, because I didn't vote for this law, so you'll see that the gray economy is still booming and that absolutely nothing was prevented in that. What's he doing on the OHR anti-corruption team? So who do they sell any fog to all the time talking about taking care of citizens? Come on, people, are we really going to be a factor in this country? Are we going to help our citizens? Let us set free, and even the King of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia did not tax the way we now do it in the democratic and 21st centuries. Well, it was domocratic, and I agree with the Kingdom, and I'm not much for it, but it was a domocratic compared to the current Bosnia and Herzegovina under the OHR's patronage. And let the people know that both Croatia and Serbia, without that OHR, have a stronger economy, they've solved it, here I am looking at these people and the old foreign exchange savings, and they've solved it without the OHR. We've got international brains here and we're getting worse. And increasingly poor people live in this country. Let's back this up, let's do something useful. After this, I tell you, there will be a people's joy, they say this is the People's Parliament. hurtić, you hit your forehead, I know this power is ruthless, the authorities don't care. I was with some of the authorities and the international community, so when I spoke people die they said so what does it matter what people die. That's who you are. You don't care about everything in this country, but it doesn't matter to an honest MP. And so I ask you to support this, these people do, when the council doesn't want to do executive power because it's unnatural, it's a normal thing. Let's support these colleagues of ours. Have you noticed today, all amendments and amendments have been made or proposals by the law of the Members. We have become the BiH Government. We took their job because they don't. And so I ask you to accept the procedure under article 105 and to do something 22 useful today without any pretentiousness in the sense that it will be political marketing for, say, SDP. It won't be for them any marketing. It's one human endeavor, and when we support it, it's actually our one, one expression of the need to help the citizens. And I think that so much we've said, they're telling us so much that the Board of Direct Taxation is more of a body than Parliament, so that it's more of a distaste. The OHR says it's a lower organ because it's legal. The transfer of jurisdiction is now struggling. So when it comes to getting out of that poor Republika Srpska from OHR, they get everyone alive through the transfer of jurisdiction. They killed those politicians in Banja Luka. And now that they're being defended by 2 billion, and they don't know where they're going to go with them, and they know they need to give the IMF and the World Bank credit, which is why the OHR gentlemen advocate. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Here I beg you, think about this any way you want. I can irritate you, I can irritate you all, but let's be MPs once and make up our minds without looking at leaders or anyone on the side. Let's take fate into our own hands. Let's vote for this to be in accordance with Article 105. And you'll see we won't make a mistake. Everything we've been told, this international mind, it's getting worse and worse in this country. Here we have two positions today. In the old foreign exchange savings we have this, do it, and you'll see what the citizens tell you. Well, I guess we're here because of the citizens, not because of OHR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25156	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić. Have Mr. Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25157	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25158	The replica of Mrs. Milićević. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I actually wanted to intervene, not to talk about OHR. We're talking about VAT today. I mean, we're talking about value added tax, the law that we've passed, and we're talking about a proposal to amend and supplement the law. Everyone takes their stand. We tried on the Commission, I have to remind you from your conclusion, to come to a unique solution. There are political parties that have actually shown a lack of desire to go into the VAT story, everyone with their reasons and I respect what the Social Democratic Party has proposed. But we stick to the subject. Now, let's not be angry at each other here so we can, but I don't know, we can't or can't because of that and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25160	Wrong quote. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25161	So he's blaming the quote in terms of this, the pronunciation that someone is protecting the OHR. But if gentlemen and I, together with you, get a letter from the OHR and we're given a lesson about VAT, the lesson of the most incredible, then in that case I have to say, if we have the courage to decide or this is exactly what it's going to be, I know it's going to be right by this letter, but I don't belong to that mile to think about someone on the side writing me something and I'm going to be an obedient. Eh, that doesn't come to mind. So find a letter, read it that says they're teaching us lessons. That's why I mentioned OHR. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25162	Okay, thank you very much. Please let us be constructive. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25163	Mr. Gligorić, our home showed courage when we were adopted two feet. And who, even when they've run out of courage, can be seen from the documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25164	Thank you very much. So, replica, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25165	I'm saying, just a little bit so there wouldn't be a dilemma, all those who speak, or hold lessons to know that as an MP, I voted a lot against and against what we're talking about with VAT. I've always been on the sidelines of having two feet, that it has to be liberating, and I didn't vote for that law. If there wasn't a dilemma because my colleague said, we can see the listing because in the document we would find Gligorić who might be something, I always say, well, I'm glad you didn't say that. Because I always say the same thing, always think and decide the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25166	When it comes to listing, please let's go to work. Come on. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I blanco sign what my colleagues are saying from the aspect of building a social state and a social policy mission in BiH. The fact is that executive bodies do not have that social sensitivity and have simply not done their part of the work that Parliament, or the House of Representatives, has specifically given in the power and obligation of the Council of Ministers. There's something going on, but it's not enough and it's not enough. I think the best way to destroy this strategic one, I would say fiscal reform, is to open Pandora's box and simply let's all of us here lead or say by leading a pre-election campaign, propose amendments and additions to the VAT Act and thus simply resolve social issues in BiH. It's a completely wrong way. The best way to destroy this reform is a dozen amendments and that reform is over. .... reform has nothing left. The other thing is flossula. There's no extra pair of people. The money's been picked up and who's trying to manipulate it? We have the extra money because the money has to be returned to the people, it's only beginning since June 2006. You're not familiar with that? So the money returns, simply to whoever was pulling the VAT according to our law. Under three, even though we passed the law, we have no right to give up our jurisdiction. What does that mean? The agency or the Central Board of VAT cannot prevent a decision from being taken by the BiH Parliament. That's where we're right. And what the OHR is interpreting, I don't think he's right. So there is no right to exclude 24 of any decision by Parliament from the Management Board for indirect taxation. We didn't even have the right to transfer that jurisdiction to the Department of Direct Taxation. We didn't have one. We were wrong. Okay, but we were wrong. That means, if I please, so it doesn't limit us, we can make a lot of things with our own free will simple and interpret and stand behind our decision. But once again, I do repeat once again, customs policy measures, VAT change measures, change measures and other fiscal laws to influence and lead a social policy is highly uninstructed and none of these countries are doing so. It's only been six months, and we haven't seen the effects of VAT yet. The truth is social policy doesn't work. The social programs we've drawn don't work, they only give a part of the answers. But once again, we really have three laws today on VAT change. Two per article 105. One per article 104. And I'm behind it, let the applicants really do a really good critical thinking, the best way to destroy this reform is to simply go to dozens of amendments and destroy this VAT law. And that's the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25168	Thank you very much. Let's go, Belkić. Wrong quote Mr. Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25169	I would like to welcome the chairman, colleagues and colleagues and tell Mr. Sead Avdić, this is no propaganda whatsoever. This is the SDP fight since VAT. I'm sorry, we're also in the conversations we've had with our, with you, you've always given in the hallway support. When he comes here, you're against it. And be against it. It's your right. That's why we made the motion again. Last time we agreed to withdraw all the proposals and go with these three proposals. And it was accepted here because that's how it works. I don't mind, don't give me a surrender about what we wanted. Why am I saying that? I speak for one simple reason. Please, it's been said that funds are coming back. Did our citizens get from those funds and those 10 marks? Well, it's been blocked for a month and a half. They can't return the money because it's not agreed whether it's 32 or not I don't know it 31.5. So where is the seriousness of both the Council of Ministers and the Council of Direct Taxation and all others. It's just that it's our fault that we're sitting here. I will not accept it for the simple reason that the work of this Board of Directors and these Direct Taxation Directorates is totally non-serious, with the Council of Ministers showing that they do not think about our citizens. And that's why we're constantly working on this stuff and we're going to go as far as we can as long as it's being debated here as Parliament for the protection of citizens. Not because we're going to propagate something, but because they're being fluent and they're creating social programs that are supposed to be part of this ministry's work. Therefore, there is no propaganda. If someone doesn't do something, I have to make it change. I'm sorry, Mr. Avdić. It's not propaganda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25170	Is it the same allegation? The first was Mr. Avdić, because it was referred to by Mr. Milorad Živković. Wrong quote, please, 25.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25171	It's absolutely not true that I have supported these failed SDP projects in any of the towers and corridors. Missed projects, which means I repeat again, means it's not true. Secondly, this is the highlight of the demagogy that my colleague Bešlagić is talking about. The peak of demagogy. And third, this is exactly the SDP election campaign, and don't lie there. A pre-election campaign that just breaks the VAT Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25172	Mr. Milorad Živković, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25173	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25174	Please, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25175	One part of this, however, is a false allegation, Mr. Bešlagić said correctly in this large part. I want to support him on this, that really the Council of Ministers is no good, that the Department of Direct Taxation and Defence is no good and that we change it together in these elections and then change this rate so that we can work and not for a month before the election to give in to these other people who want to make savings because they haven't been able to do it so far. And you know there's a year and a few days that we've been here every time and when the law was here to be two feet but now to make a month before the election... someone else, let's do it together in October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25176	Correction of the wrong allegation. Mr. Krstanovic. Is it a quote or was it a waste?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25177	No, it's just a guilty allegation. Or some replica, I don't know what motivated my colleague, Avdić, to tell SDP this as a pre-election campaign. You see, we can do this, we're pre-election, it's instructed when we talked about the flaws of a VAT law like this for 1.5 days, when we advocated a differentiated rate, etc. And we stayed consistent with that. Why do we, the program that we're trying through legal institutions to accomplish? We're recognizable here, when it comes to crime, when it comes to poverty. This is nothing new to your colleague Avdić, which you could hear today and you could keep quiet at the beginning of the mandate, nothing new is that. That's what we're supposed to understand. There is really no reason to reject this position, that this pre-election campaign is a legitimate proposal. You can be against it, it's your right but not with such an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25178	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Hazim Felić, please. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25179	I just want Mr. Bešlagić to make this all wrong. The essence of the VAT law seems to be unknown to Mr. Bešlagić because the return of money to taxpayers has nothing to do with any social payouts that entity governments need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25180	Thank you very much. Business intervention. Mr. Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25181	I'd just like to ask briefly, what I asked and at the beginning to discuss the request. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25182	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a discussion about the request. It's Mr. Belkić's turn now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25183	Here, thank you very much, yes, I've been patient and waiting. So when it comes to our position, we have practically in continuity and supported and initiated ourselves certain changes to the Value Added Tax Act, especially in those segments that we appreciated were of social nature, in order to facilitate the burden of imposing on citizens. However, after these recent developments and attempts on commissions to sublime all initiatives, etc. So, failed attempts, we will no longer support anyone's individual request under Article 105 for the following reason; this initiative does not include bread, milk, oil, reduction of the rate we would not support, Article 72, though it is still in some procedure, livestock food, young people, tax exemptions on first purchase, etc. So this time we won't support the procedure under Article 105. As for the change in these items, we're absolutely in for but not by article 105 for the reason I just said. So the way we treat it, we're even going to have one part today. One part is somewhere in some procedures, so it would be practical to support one part of the requirement in relation to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25184	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25185	Thank you very much. I will respect my colleague Zorić and will speak exclusively about the request for a member of 105th or so, since we also have a bill of law, later this one, a request for a member of 104th and after this another proposal. I'll brief the reasons why we won't support Article 105. Just because we think there should be more items than there are here, and what we have proposed by law and what we think amendments can be fixed. That is the only reason why we will not support Article 105, but when there is a debate on this law on this issue, surely it means to make a contribution in terms of accepting these but also extending the current to some other items. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25186	Thank you very much. Mr. Bešlagić, you asked for a word or did you use it? Okay. No more reports. I'm finishing my dispersal. I ask the representatives to prepare for a statement on the requirement to consider this proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, Mr Križanović, Lagumdžija and Bešlagić in accordance with Article 105. Stand by. Vote now. So 4 for, 24 against, 2 abstentions. The request was not accepted. This bill goes into regular procedure. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda, Add.7. Request of nostic representative Novaković to consider the Bill's proposal on Value Added Tax, also suspended under Article 105 from the 81st session of the House We received this request, Proposed Law 15/05, so the procedure of Article 105 is required. I'm opening a debate. We've heard a lot of arguments about this. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25188	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I don't think we've heard about this at all arguments, but we've heard about the law that treats two feet or more. This is about one attempt to find some possible, so in some ways, reduce the pressure that is clearly on ordinary citizens now and, if you want, that little economy that is currently living in this country. In fact, several times it has been and several attempts have been made to go at a higher rate and it is evident that we will find it very difficult to get support and administrations for indirect taxation and all others. But my thinking was that if we couldn't do it that way already, and I've heard it more than once in this place, we have surprisingly good results, when it comes to collecting income, so we have extra income, so more than we thought, etc., and if that's how it is, then that's probably the result between the other and the defined rate of 17%. So one possible way to reduce the burden is to question the rate, given that social programs have failed. That's why this proposal is going to reduce the rate from 17% to 14% and in terms of this is the only law that is in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25189	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25190	Respectfully, it is to think about reducing the tax rate as Mr. Novaković said, provided that before that we did an analysis that says that the tax rate should be 13 or 12%. Now I wonder why 14%? What argument is it 14 and not 13? So the proposal came without any basis in the analysis. Given that many of the VAT elements are related to state functioning issues, and that the error of Mr Hurtić, who said at one point that the results of VAT implementation are based on only some 3 months of analysis, such that the extremely large reserves of money standing, and that now all experts from that area and from the International Monetary Fund and those people dealing with this matter, say that this is a fairly easy assessment and that the question of return under Article 72 will take a good part of these revenues. Then I'm really asking if it would be normal to make such a decision at this point when we don't know what the real results are. Is it a breach of order in tax policy reform, if we take the shortcut decision that it's 14, and I ask why it's not 13? So I think this law should too, the bill should go into the same procedure, get the same consent, and I don't think it should accept the procedure under Article 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25191	Thank you. Is it a replica? Replica, Mr. Novaković, followed by Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25192	My Koleginica Majkić, 13 is an unfortunate number, so I didn't pick him. I might have chosen him if he wasn't unhappy, but he's unhappy, so then I decided 14. It would have been nice if you had suggested some other number with arguments and this, and a well calculated math, and then I would have thought about whether I would support it or not. Then I would understand your discussion as an honest and well-intentioned discussion here today, and I would really like your justification for why you won't support it exactly that way. You have to be honest and say this isn't about numbers. It doesn't matter if it's 14, 17, 13, 12, it doesn't matter if it's 2 feet 3 feet. Here's the identification factor for the keeper of the praam. Who's the one controlling the budgets? And if that were the case, the SNSD example, who was a two-foot advocate until he controlled the RS budget and is now a one-foot advocate because he controls the budget. And that's true, and that's okay. I don't blame it, but let's just tell the truth here that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25193	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Majkić, insolete.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25194	Dear Mr. Novaković, until yesterday you fought very hard not to change anything because you were in power and I understand your role in this, but that you do not offer any argument not to say that any rational report needs you to decide whether 13 or 14% is or why it is not 15% of how minimal the rate is under the law in the EU, or the proposal of many measuring institutions that were at the meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, then I would also take your proposal as good intentions. Don't call for the destruction of what you insisted on until yesterday, and your subsequent mind here means something. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25195	Okay. I think we can, just a little... permanent, yes, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25196	No, I don't have a custom really like this, colleagues know I'm discussing. I have to say, first of all, it's not about any subsequent mind. Those sitting here, and we're all sitting here, you know we said by April the SDS Club won't be going to change the VAT bill until we get the first effects and see if the social programs are going to be applied or not. Since we've received good assurances that no one has any social programmes at entity levels, or that no money is being sucked in by ordinary citizens, in order to reduce the negative effects of VAT, I'm talking about the negative effects of VAT, then we decided to take the step we decided to take. So there's no ex post sense about it. As far as numbers 14 or 15 are concerned. I was, of course, joking with the 13th. I have also read in the media from serious debates of people who decide on the proposals of this, in order to be a 15% figure or VAT rate. It was in all the media. But then there was a figure of extra income. Later, here in the report we got a bigger number, I asked where the extra income came from. I don't think there's any extra income. I don't think there's any extra income. I think someone takes the money and keeps it on the bill, and that's why they're not in the municipalities, and that's why they're not here today, they're being sucked out of business, and that's why the municipalities are squirming today and they can't pay their electricity bills, while we're talking about extra money. About billions or hundreds of millions of extra money. So there's no ex-post mind and no figure chosen by heart but an estimate if it's 15 for one level of surplus and for a higher level, then I guess it makes sense for me to make this percent lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25197	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. Our club will also support this initiative by Mr. Momčilo Novaković to follow Article 105 by emergency procedure, because we should support everything that can give some improvement to our citizens, although we will still not give up on having two steps again and if we adopt these 15 and 14 on your proposal. But here we would do well to accept this, and secondly, why the Council of Ministers won't give anyone, which also points to Mrs. Majkić, regarding this analysis. They told us 17% that it was ideal and that it was based on Hurtic's analysis. Well, at the end of the day, the ones who are his and Terzić's superiors said they could be 15%. They'll defend 15% immediately. That's why I think Mr. Novaković is right, and what he says, once, Mr. Lagumdžija needs to do on people's computers, not on brooms, so in this way I really agree with it, because all we've got so far is just like that, past logic, past computers, past some standards, but simply we have now, again you're holding on to the head, Mr. Hurtić, but let me tell you, so imagine saying in one country 17% and later saying 15%. So you get all the fuel tanks and you pay 17 marks on the VAT, and that's how it's on bread and everything. And people, do you have responsibility in this country for something to do, that you took someone more? Let's find a billion more. So who'd you get that from? That's why I'm asking you to back this up and not go through with the SDP proposal from the merciless to the unloved. We all know that people are right, 30, but we don't have the courage to support them. So if that's what the SDP suggested, here's what I'm going to say to them. I don't agree with them in my life, but if their proposal is smart let's accept in Parliament a smart proposal no matter where it comes from, it's important that it's smart. In this case, it's their proposal and it is smart. And in this case, the SDS who are my biggest political opponents. But Momo, you did a good job of doing this, and that's why I'm gonna back it up. You need to be a real man, I can't politically hate people because I have another political option, if they're right and they're smart. There is no such logic and thought in this House alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25199	Thank you very much. Mr. Sipović. Is it a replica? It wasn't, it used to be Mr. Sipović, so sir, I have the order of the reported, so Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25200	I am not going to be much on this issue since I am also a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, this Finance Commission and the budget where we discussed by the College when there were discussions on several amendments, or amendments, and to try on that Commission to resolve that it is heading towards the House, whether there is a need and purpose or possibility of amending the VAT Act during this period. I just wanted to say when there was a debate going on about VAT and VAT effects. I have always expressed my position that I have supported the government and that this reform of our fiscal system is going towards strengthening central institutions. Here we have one, forget it, forget it, forget it, easy when the international factors of the institution come to us to go to Europe we sign all the different directives. And then when international factors come, they put it before us, if you want to go to Europe, you have to meet those and those criteria. In this context, I have always advocated that a system that has given VAT certain effects of strengthening the central authorities and institutions to go. But I can't possibly understand as a man that he's an official, but I won't name him now that I've given ten of my proposals here to VAT, to the government, to the Council of Ministers, to the Council of Ministers, to the Council of Ministers, he said of 10. None of these 10 proposals that would amortise the negative effects of VAT on citizens, the social standard and this is not, nor are they realised, nor are there social programmes or other so-called social programs. assistive legislation to be implemented by the Council of Ministers. And I think, in essence, that the Council of Ministers with such an inert or, without finding a modus to create an exhaust valve for social categories and burden on the economy and all of these factors, is precisely creating a dissatisfaction with this law, which may have good in its elements globally but I must as an MP give criticism that the Council of Ministers is persistently sticking to its position and defends, with the help of the normal international community, and we know why this project should remain, the integration of Europe, but why you suffer such criticisms from MPs and such remarks when some other auxiliary mechanisms can be found to reduce some effects. As a man, I know the seriousness and maturity that makes it impossible for me to support certain changes in VAT at this stage, but that is why I must publicly refer to criticism as an MP so that the Council of Ministers or any institutions that implement this, as auxiliary mechanisms, have not done anything adequately, so as to facilitate these MPs who would defend their views to say at this stage that there is no change of this law. I think this is a cruel law, a fundamental law where this state has a responsibility to the international community. But he also has a responsibility to his citizens. And he who is capable will also reconcile obligations to the institutions of the international community and his path to 31 Europe and integration and also to citizens. I think it is the increation of our system system, i.e. illegal, intrinsic, intrinsic of the operational bodies of our executives and governments and lower bodies which, my esteemed colleagues, do not need to close their eyes on it, the right tells him. And then we come to a situation where Honorable colleague Gligorić speaks he really criticises whether he has the Parliament's strength to make certain changes. I'll tell you, Mr. Gligorić, and I'm in certain democratic thinking. We are going into a trap that is easily principled democratic, what is called, we adopt declarations and we adopt laws and we don't see what the effects are and we come to this, but then we come to a situation where we tell the citizens – if we are for it, we were for this. And when it comes to application, I'll say something, that my colleagues used to confuse me as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. That they proposed so much amendments to the law supplement, and when I came last as a member of that commission, they completely changed their views. And what the opposition has the right to criticise the current power is a legitimate right and should not be angry at it, and even, contrary to the current authority that is in power should use what the opposition is suggesting. I think the main problem is that we're just talking about this VAT. Let us, in essence, be aware that we and those who are initiating certain initiatives are fully aware that this is difficult and that this is at the stage of some debate, pre-election campaign and this. But we're getting into a situation where I really like some arguments from my colleagues, and on the other hand there's a constant attitude if this happens, if this goes wrong, then everything, you don't hit the system strategically and this. I don't think the government can, dear colleague Hurtić, you're one expert, and I highly appreciate you, but the transfer of the government can't stand so much, there will be another call for citizens and these MPs. Understand you and the role of the MPs the voters gave the vote to. Find some other modes to leave this system like this, not to be around it all the time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25201	Thank you very much. I didn't want to interrupt anyone, we're still in the process, and I'm asking you to respect that. Mr. Zivkovic is, Mr. Avdić is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25202	Dear Chairman, dama and gentlemen, I will try without politics and a story about social programs that, if I recall, my dear colleague Sead mentioned for the first time that they were standing in a drawer. And I say why SNSD won't support procedure 105 for very practical reasons. So one is the principle of law, and we don't think that a single rate is a solution. We think that the multiple rate of solution in this change is only proposed to reduce one rate. Two -- we think the time of the law is not ahead of the elections in half the fiscal year when it would endanger the budgets already passed. The solution is before the end of the year when the budgets are being created, whatever government is in power, whoever makes those budgets. Under three - the world itself is questionable because the damage has already been done. So I'll answer to all those who say that fuel is now taxed 17% to get those same bills at the same amount, only it wrote 14%. The damage was done by making 17% of the VAT. They've all raised prices and no one's going to cut them. I guarantee you that the same price will be given for fuel only on that account will be changed. The damage has already been done, and you know well that we have been saying that the damage will be done and should not have been done until April of the month, nor would there be any great expert that it will be known that this damage will be done. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25203	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25204	I would like to repeat once again, Mr. Chairman, that the social policy and social standards of this country cannot be achieved, I would say, at the expense of the devastation of the law, especially two laws, I mention once again – the Customs Policy Act and the VAT Act. However, this proposal cannot be classified in this category that I am talking about to the greatest extent. A colleague, Novaković, was considering optimizing the VAT rate, and that is not contrary to what I'm talking about. It's just a problem that's a real economic analysis that can back the rate down from 17% to 14%. And that's the basic problem. I don't think we should ignore this proposal from the aspect of possible effects and Parliament's relationship towards the rate we adopted. We didn't have any evidence at the time that it was an optimal rate for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can today argue that it is 19% from the perspective of the country's development chances. But it simply takes a simple serious, serious economic analysis and an account that would prove to us that this is an optimal rate not 17%, but 15%. So I propose, this fellow Novaković suggests a conclusion which would be instructed that the Council of Ministers urgently submits to us by August 25th this year a report on this proposal, means that the economic calculation for and against the reduction of the rate already recorded from 17% to 15% in public, and that then on August 25th, we could do best if we could confirm, or simply adopt a second VAT rate that will not disrupt the law, technologically organised and simply implement software, there would be no major problems with the aspect of the implementation of this law. But one thorough economic paper that would really prove that it's not 17%, but that it's 14%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25205	Replica. Who answered the line? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25206	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Ladies and gentlemen, we're fine now, I apologize Mr. Avdić has spoken to this version about Mr. Novaković's proposal. I just want to tell you, the replica is that when you speak and in the way you represent yourself from the opposition, do not confuse the opposition because these words are skillful because you are more skilled, I would not say Adnan Terzić. And don't be a spokeswoman to the government or you're putting yourself there, but don't abuse the opposition because in this way you've done harm to the opposition with a desire to change something for the better. That's what we need to clear up in this House because while, I'm giving you my hand. You're skilled, you're eloquent, you're doing great, but you're doing it for the government. That smell is so strong in this House it's,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25207	It was a replica, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25208	Replica defends the opposition, honors the opposition because if we get involved in opposition/talk at the same time, Raguž-Glilorić-Glilorić/ 33
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25209	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Avdić and Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25210	Well, it would be, it would be about time this one didn't go into the experience of fellow Gligorić because he, I don't use words this is smart, this isn't smart, and I'm defending a smart proposal, etc. So it has absolutely nothing to do with the government or the opposition. I do not observe this Parliament only in those categories of black and white, who is against who. I am watching whether the law is for BiH or against BiH and my colleague Gligorić and remember that. So, I am exclusively my relationship in this parliament is whether the law is good for BiH or against BiH and you are still dealing with the interests of the opposition or dealing with the interests of the position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25211	Here's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25212	It's because I think you're in the heat of that fight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25213	One minute, you don't have to describe the heat of the fight. You have to describe what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25214	I know, but he says this, my impression. Look, it's a guilty quote, I say to Bosnia, for BiH, I want to see for the citizens of BiH because it will give you space, what do you need territory, what do you need an institution for when you don't have peoples? And you know, you lost that soul, which is the people, the citizens of our BiH. This is directed against them. And counterpart Avdić, every time he voted, voted the way Terzić ordered it and that it was known. And he never practically supported the opposition's proposal. And that it's only known in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25215	Time, time, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25216	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25217	Please report for your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25218	...to stop because it will bring a relatively bad impression from this House. Ends this term, it wouldn't be bad for your weakness to spend this way, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25219	It's not about credibility, it's just about the truth. Even in this excitement, I can see that I was really right. You can serve power, and criticizing power and being on the payroll of government is ugly. I'm never 34.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25220	Mr. Gligorić, I think you've explained enough, I mean here. Mrs. Majkić was Mrs. Milićević. But they're all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25221	Mr. Gligorić, I can't help but think that after your speeches, we feel more and more like we're after the sweet cakes. We're sick of it. And don't be the only one who'll protect the interests here and say what's right, what's not right. That's one thing. And secondly, I remind you, even though you are currently protecting the interests of the opposition, that you are very disrupting and chasing towards a position to try to secure the place. I'm asking you to be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25222	Now, please, Mr. Gligorić, you don't have to take every, I mean, you didn't get the word and please sit down. Now I really need to react. You didn't get the word. I ask the representatives to respect the way in which they conduct the session and the Rules of Procedure. No one has been denied the word but that they do not rise before they receive the word and that within the time period provided for by the false assumption they end. Mr. Gligorić, please. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25223	This shows how difficult it is to be in power. It seems that some are burdened with Tihomir Gligorić, who always acts equally and equally votes, speaks equally publicly and equally in Parliament. Obviously, Mrs. Majkić, you're having trouble because you've spoken like this once in a while. And as for some functions, I'm telling you, I don't need any functions if you're offering me something, I really don't need it from you. I say clearly in this House, but take care of some other things like crime, and how the government should function on an honorable basis. And don't act like this here in the opposition in the morning or in the afternoon, when you come to power, you act differently. Eh, that's why I mean, always act the way you're supposed to act, not how pragmatic you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25224	Time, Mr. Gligorić, I must interrupt. Mrs. Miličević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25225	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I have to say that I've been irritated by this story, I've never had a dilemma, Mr. Gligorić has always been left, left, and so I respect man. And those who are left and right, I can't set a place for them, but I guess they'll position themselves. Now I want to talk about the law. Mr. Novaković has proposed amendments and additions to the law that means going with one step. And I think this attempt to change the law he's going with is actually on the trail of what this house or some future one is going to work on. Because the fact is that by introducing a rate of 17%, we overestimated that we were actually needed with the cannon and that there was space. Whether that space will be 15, 16 when a quality analysis is done, time will show but the option in which you go with one rate can be acceptable BiH and we are not this one, going with this change of law or 35 for the very state that lacks money, because it turns out that the money has, it just doesn't know whether it's 34 or 53% more, we'll find out what the amount is. This was proposed for the people, you see. It's because of the people, because of the consumers, because this is the tax they pay. And the state, I guess, exists because of the people, not just those whose audit reports we're reading today, and we're all surprised. So somewhere there's money and it's being spent, it's known how it's being spent, we just want to point out that it can be set aside for those who pay taxes. And, no matter what happened to the amendments and additions to this law, it is important that it remains a living initiative and that some new synergy realizes that it has to work on amendments and amendments to the law and that there are arguments that hopefully until then will be used as a scavenger and an analyst that will show where there is space, which is space and that we will have a fairer law that we will apply. As for Dom and what kind of impressions he'll make, it's unfortunate if you gentlemen leave here with impressions. You need to leave with concrete actions with effect. And with the impressions you're going from a theater show.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25226	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25227	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, Mr. Chairman, so I guess the impressions or... the overall impression of this House are also the actions that people have done in this House. So let's not on that basis that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25228	Okay, thank you very much. We don't have to react to every shade. I'm closing the debate. We are before a decision on the procedure or request for Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I would ask the MPs to prepare themselves and to make a statement on the request of Mr Momčilo Novaković to consider the proposal for a tax on additional value, the amendment of the Law under the procedure of Article 105. Stand by. Vote now. Eight for 19 against, three abstentions. The request did not receive the required majority and this request by Mr Momčilo Novaković is being referred to in a regular procedure. We're going to track eight, that's Ad.8. Representative Milorad Živković's request for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Road Safety of Roads Security in BiH also under Article 105. Rules of Procedure He delivered this request to the procedure on 11 July. I am opening a debate on Mr. Živković's request. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25230	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, by submitting this initiative, I believe that there are no conditions for starting to apply this law for several reasons. One of the reasons for the violation of the gentlemen's agreement that prevailed on the commission when the law foreclosed is conditional upon the adoption and 22 missing regulations depending largely on the implementation of this law are submitted to the Commission. On our inquiry, not one single rule has been filed so far. It has been said that practically reporting part of the job is done and that these rules are about to be completed, when it was talked about passing this law, and the law is to remind me, in December of last year's adoption. No Niko has given us enough assurance that these same rules will be passed by the end of this year. Another reason is the legal chaos that will arise if the law is applied and the rules are not adopted in the meantime. I will consider only examples of passing driving tests, criminal provisions in the law which will be treated in one way by the rules of the old proposal and the law will be in the procedure or will enter into force on 8.8 this year. New legal solutions, meanwhile, brought by parliaments entityally regarding the Law on Violations, also complicates the implementation of the law. It is necessary, meanwhile, to amend and supplement that law that they have done, to remind both the working group and the MPs and such amendments have a total of about 30. The general mood and atmosphere are not in favour of the application of this law. I don't think it was enough to explain traffickers, about the law, about its application, about how the penalty points would be. Those rules that aren't here in front of us, which should have been, would have made it very clear how this law applies. So my law in this proposal is very simple and delays the application of the law until the beginning of the new year, which would give the ministry enough time to make 22 regulations but also to the Commission or Parliament to consider these 30 amendments and to include them in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25231	Thank you. The first Mr. Novaković answered for the word, so Mrs. Majkić, and Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25232	I must say that Mr. Živković's proposal really has this, logic with what would be good now if we had someone here from the ministry in charge who should say what he's going to do, what the consequences of not applying this law will be. So, at what stage of preparation for law enforcement, something has already been done which could be a problem if we adopt this law. That would be very important if we did. Unfortunately, we don't. Of course, I agree with Mr. Živković that the mood is not to apply the law in the light of criminal provisions, of course the mood, especially with this one, is for us to delay application. But this, indeed, one analysis should, or rather, be more likely to produce negative consequences in some parts if this law were to be applied. I don't know what the solution is, what the way out of this is. Whether to go to regular procedure, because if we go to regular procedure he loses his meaning, since then we, the August 8th Act, start to apply and he no longer makes sense unless we accept it today. I don't know if it makes any sense to say making a decision without some kind of ministry attitude, I don't know if now, but whether Minister Čolak can help in this regard, whether he has information from ministries and entities, or canton, whether 37 of this law can potentially produce negative effects in some part. And if we don't have that kind of information, I will opt for indifference in the application of this law to those who were obliged to make an act, meaning a sublegal act, I will choose to vote for this proposal by Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25233	Thank you very much. Ms. Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25234	... led by a very bile debate and in the end, that's when those who voted for one of the worst laws this house has ever passed. Today, no one knows whether or not this law can be implemented at all. So we've heard that its implementation requires 22 sublaws and its implementation needs to start at 8.8. But imagine the absurd. In the next article alone, Article 253 states that the sublaw of this 22 will be adopted within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. Imagine the application of the law within 6 months and the production of sublegal acts based on which the law will apply for a year. I asked myself what stage sublegation was in, and it was from the members of the commission that she didn't even start. Working groups have been formed but working on sublaws has not even started. In what way the Ministry of Transport and Communications intends to start applying, Mr Šekar recently explained in a public appearance on TV, so he said the law would start to apply from criminal provisions. Only criminal provisions will start to apply from August 8th and everything else will wait for another time. The acquaintances say mid next year. And one more thing. Please take a look at your driver's licenses. They say you passed, for example. B category and then you got the gift subcategory B1 and BE. When did you pass the driver's exam for those two subcategories? On the basis of which the driver's license was issued in general when there are no sub-categories in the old law. The public needs to know that since 2003, when permits are issued under the CIPS project, it means that citizens without any verification of knowledge are added to the category they have passed and sub-categories they have never laid down. So, college hasn't started working and diplomas are already being betrayed. So this law, I think, needs to be thoroughly examined and amended because the law as it is will not apply. This assembly of Parliament will not be able to do the job and will leave it as a hot potato for the next term. Today, the only thing we can do is accept, correct this absurd mistake and move the law's implantation from 6 to 12 months, so to support the procedure under Article 105. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25235	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25236	You see, I want, as chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission, to inform this home that on 7 July of this year, we asked the Council of Ministers, or the relevant ministry, to deliver their opinion, as Mr Novaković said, whether it is possible to apply this law from 8.8 this year. 38 And Mr. Živković is also a member of this commission and I don't know if all MPs got on the bench, so the answer. So we didn't get an answer from the Council of Ministers, but we got a response from the Minister for Transport and Communications, where he said we didn't need to postpone the application of this law and he normally explained why. We have already had on the Commission and tomorrow we have two laws amending and supplementing the meanings of this law. One was suggested by Mr. Belkić, Bešlagić and Ćeman and the other by Mr. Hadžić Izet and Ćeman. We also have some remarks and opinions from the Ministry of Justice regarding the compliance of this law with the laws on violations but regardless of what I've been talking about, so I'm personally thinking and perhaps of someone's personal desires I don't think should be delayed. So I'm saying this, personally, that we don't have to delay the application of this law because there will always be some changes and additions, and now the question really is, if this law could come into force, given that we're really a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of power we've invested to say primarily as a commission and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to get to the law, I think we should start by applying the law and see this, in the very application of how it's going to show. So, personally, I mean, I'm saying as president of the commission that you shouldn't, means you should start applying this law as provided for by the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25237	Thank you. The word has Mr. Bešlagić, right? Well, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25238	It's just that what Mr Jovanović said, I suggest that these answers that we have received as members of the commission get out and delivery to parliamentarians and thus could now plead these things out. The answer is clear and decadent of the Ministry and Minister, and the Law should start to apply, and in that sense I absolutely support that principle because it seems better to me than to stay the way it is. So the law is defined. We adopted it, so as someone criticises other laws, someone can criticise this law, but it was adopted in this House and, at the explanation of the ministry and the minister, I would ask that we get that answer to all, or parliamentarians, and then it would be a statement on these things afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25239	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25240	I will be forced to speak differently than when I answered when I intended to speak in a different way. I didn't know that the resolution ministry even appeared in terms of the possibility of applying the law and the intention was to simply try to warn the resolution ministries to follow what was proposed here, to react, to provide information and to explain. And I thought that the only way we could vote for 105 today was to get the procedure started and then they'd finally react. But here's the information I got that they were reacting. Let's see what people wrote and see if that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25241	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović and I'm closing the debate. No more reports. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25242	And my exposure will be something different from what I was going to say after this information that there's some kind of response from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry. I fully appreciate the efforts and arguments given by my colleague Živković and my colleague, Majkić. However, it is unusual for the motion to postpone the application of the Law to come from Parliament. And Parliament's laws. There's someone here who's in charge of the realisation of those laws. If there is really no initiative, or needs and assessments of a particular ministry that the Council of Ministers has to postpone the application of these laws, I do not see that we are very welcome to do so. But in any case, if there is no concrete response, this may be transformed into one conclusion, in one request that, that Parliament is concerned that the preconditions for the application of the Road Safety Act are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25243	The debate is closed, only replica if it is. I've concluded the debate, sir. Are you looking for a replica, a correction to the wrong one, what do you want? ________(?) [[speaks from place, doesn't understand]] So say it, I'm asking you nicely. Mr. Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25245	Given that several MPs have been asked to receive written information from the Ministry received by members of our commission, I would ask the SNSD Club to take a 15-minute break to get it all and to try here means calling the minister who will in front of all of us to answer the questions that you have now raised, and it would not be for one to speak from the Commission without the ministers speaking on the other side. Let's see if there's any of those rules, where they're gonna be, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25246	I suggest we give a word to the representatives of the competent ministry, let's hear the argument, and then we can discuss the other elements. Here you go. The secretary of the ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25247	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs. I'm Nikola Šegot, Secretary of the Department of Transport and Communications. When it comes to these questions asked by Mr Živković and other questions raised on the Commission for Transport and Communications, before an official letter from the Commission, I called on all the people dealing with this problem in the ministry to address all these issues. Especially when it comes to these deadlines. In the preparation of this law, meaning before the adoption of the law, there were different proposals in force and law enforcement, the adoption of sublegal acts, so that there were proposals, given the complexity of the adoption of these sublegal acts, there were proposals to be 40 two years after the entry into force of that law, there were proposals to make it half a year. It is precisely because of these questions whether the law can be applied or not. The position of the Ministry's Professional Service, as well as the people involved in the preparation of this law, that the law can be applied in the part where it can be actually applied, especially when certain rules and regulations are at stake, and the adoption of sublaws of the legal acts shall take effect on the day of adoption. Because we have all these sublaws, mostly, that follow some kind of existing laws, and they were thought that these existing rules would apply until new regulations enter into force. I wouldn't agree here with individuals if nothing had happened on those rules. It's been working intensively on these rules and I think that for every one of these rules, a draft has already been made. Here's today's meeting I think the last task force to prepare draft regulations that will be directed to all interested ones who can make their contribution when it comes to these rules. I personally hope that these rules will all be adopted within the deadline that is around 8.2.2007, and in my view this law should start to apply on the scheduled deadline. Perhaps we have only a problem and a dilemma that the ministry has put as a questionnaire. We have different interpretations. The problem is that there are laws that apply to entities and counties. They were obliged to comply with these laws by 8.8. According to information the ministry has. There are many who have failed to comply with their existing laws with this state law. And now there are different interpretations that the law will apply. Is it the one who brought in one county or is this state law going to apply? We have different interpretations here. Fifteen days ago, the ministry directed all our governments to the counties, entities to give us, so as far as they arrived to comply with their laws with this law at the state level. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten any information from anyone yet. The only problem now is what law will apply from 08.08. In my opinion, again, there is no need to extend this law, because it can be applied in 60-70% of cases and what will regulate the rules, normally some rules will be passed before the deadline of 08.02.2007. So the adoption of any rule will take effect. What Mr. Živković said was that Parliament or the Commission for Transport and Communications should give a possible opinion before adopting that regulation. We will respect it, we will refer every rule when it is ready in the Commission for Transport and Communications to the opinion because by law it is stated that the minister is passing, adopting a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25248	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25249	It's not the first time Mr. Šegota says the sent ones have to react. Before the start of the session, I asked a responsible person from Republika Srpska who is a member of a working group for the production of sublegal acts until when did it come? I'm almost certainly quoting the answer. The ministry was supposed to deliver a draft to the task force 20, a month ago. None of them have been delivered. So, first of all, that's not the right thing to do. Second, you say you deliver to the Finance and Budget Committee. Your Honor, this is our last session. Article 253 states that you will make a sublegal act within a year. When do you think? And another thing you said earlier at the pay phone is that you're obviously going to start with criminal provisions. So it's the only member you're going to apply from this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25250	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25251	Thank you, Chairman. In this House, it is not the first time these sublegal acts have been put in the context of a semi-zag. Therefore, sublegal acts are acts that need to enable the application, their own application of the law in practice, to elaborate on certain provisions of the law. And that's why the responsible ministry, the competent ministry, said nicely that the minister would pass the sublaw, I'm surprised, it's a little self-government model still to send a sublegal act to the committees of the assembly. The minister, i.e. the competent ministry, is responsible for the sub-legislative acts. You can't regulate anything by sublegal law that isn't laid down in the law. Therefore, the sublaw must strictly follow the law. A sublegal act cannot create new rights and obligations. There's a rumor here that sublegal acts, in fact, create some new rights and obligations. It's not a function of sublegal acts. Parliament controls the ministry, not a sublegal act for that responsible ministry. And Parliament creates laws. It's our thing, and our thing is laws, not sublegal acts. I would ask that we differentiate, so that's the essential question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25252	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Živković was once again asked for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25253	Well, in order to be effective, I can see that the MPs have already received these materials, so there's no need to ask for a break or to discuss it afterwards. Now we can all talk about what we have here in front of us, look ourselves in the eye, and everyone from the Commission says, "Is any of the 22 sublaws done?" Mr. Šego came out then and said he wasn't one. Are they working, are they working group, do we expect them to be in a year? We can believe it or not. I doubt it for the simple reason that it was said in December that it was over, only there it was, only it wasn't. The belief was that practically by the eighth month, when the application of this law would begin and these sublegal acts would be completed, that the Commission would receive them and see them. Here goes the seventh month none of them are finished. Here's to say is one done? Is it working or not working? That's the question. Another thing, please. The law says the driver's license is going to hit the penalty points. Who's the one who regulated it with a rule book? We want 8 months to get the penalty points to keep it in the pocket or in a police facility, so when they're determined by the regulation the way it's going to work, from the new year, they're going to put it on our ID cards, on these driver's licenses. My people, it's true what Professor. Kunić said that sublegal acts only regulate what was passed under the law. However, we in this country have dealt with much more important things than the law itself has dealt with many times. And it's not right and it's not legal, but it is. And that is why we said that this sublegal act should be reviewed by the Commission so that there is not much that happens in the sublaws in the meantime. This is the cry of this parliament for the ministry's work, because they themselves will not submit a motion to postpone the law, but will act on the principles that others are now acting on to be responsible. We as responsible people, if they don't do their job we have to endure a change of that law. We can't wait for them. They won't do it. This is one of the reasons why this law is formed by article 105. Thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25254	Okay, here we heard the signs and the representatives and we got these arguments from the ministry and now the final explanation of Mr. Živković and since the debate is concluded, I think the conditions have been established for us to decide on a request for a procedure that this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Security and Traffic on the Roads of Representative Milorad Živković be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 105, and I ask the representatives to prepare themselves for a statement and vote now. So this proposal didn't get the necessary general majority and goes into regular procedure. And I suggest now, since we're from, from, like, eight hours ago, I suggest, if we can finish the 9th point, because it's about adoption, procedure 105, and adoption of the text declared by the High Representative. We can finish that, and then we'll give it a break for lunch, if you don't mind. Are you okay with this? Thank you very much. So we're going to move to the 9th point of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 105. Rules of Procedure This is about a law declared by the High Representative and in order to continue to do anything with this law, any amendments or additions, please, we know that we must adopt this law in the same text. I'm opening a debate. No reports have been reported. I'm closing the debate. I ask the representatives to prepare and vote on the request of the Council of Ministers to adopt this draft law in accordance with the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Stand by. Vote now. So we've accepted Article 105's procedure. Now we're going to make a statement on just the text of the law. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So I agree that with 25 votes to, 3 against, without the abstentions, we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers, i.e. we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm setting a break by 14 o'clock. Please, let's be specific. We'll keep working. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, distinguished guests, we continue our work. 43 We move to the 10th item of the agenda, Add. 10. In Filip with Article 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article Andrić(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25257	Dear fellow MPs, I have made a proposal to amend and supplement this law, and I ask that, in accordance with Article 105, we decide on this because it is really a very simple and short law that we want to delete one of the conditions in the verification process, namely the setting and levelling of claims of old foreign savings, where in the law that we have adopted requires them to sign a statement giving up any subsequent action. You don't say here on what grounds or how or what. In my opinion, this provision has caused very negative effects on the ground and created one mistrust towards this home, according to all of us, that we really want to solve the problem of old foreign exchange savings that I don't think there's any basis for such mistrust, but here's a provision that we may have missed recklessly. As I recall, there was an amendment, so it didn't go through the same number of votes for one vote. It doesn't mean much to me for sure, but here she has produced such unwanted effects that it really hurts our head too much. So I suggest that we delete this and thus show, in addition to this, what we will later discuss through the long proposal of amending and supplementing the law to show the savings that we really want to return their money truly and honestly. This way I think and the state will win and we'll all get it together. I don't think anyone's gonna lose. After all, if anyone is afraid of the institutions of justice, then, indeed, it is necessary to be afraid of the means of reconciliation. I winter more reason to wipe this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25258	I thank Mr. Andrić for this explanation which was both brief and clear. It is here that it is really just about eradicating an item that, which has indeed caused some controversy among people who are directly interested and here I am opening a debate on this issue. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25259	Ladies and gentlemen. What Mr Filip Andrić has now said regarding these amendments and the additions of the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings, which is to be deleted in Article 6(3)(c) is very important and important, and I think that we should support this by way of Article 105, given that he explained very well what the reasons are. Here I only regret to point out that it would not be good for Parliament to violate human rights in the sense that it has the right of a citizen to complain to judicial authorities, but in a law that has previously been adopted and which is now in force to treat this issue of the return of old foreign currency savings, it is precisely such a possibility that we have not even missed such a provision that makes it impossible for a citizen, i.e. in this case someone who wants to use any norm of this law, to practically make it impossible for him to press charges before the judicial authorities. We are thus simply 44 to include it in international conventions and ultimately in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why this is important to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25260	Thank you very much, Mr. Gligorić. There are no more applications for discussion. All I can say is that I consider this a legitimate request and we move on to a plea. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So it has both a general and an entity majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the We move on to just a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations based on the account of the old foreign currency savings. Is there any need for further discussion? We heard the explanation. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25261	Very short. We're talking about the law. It is said here that this law, this provision actually violates human rights. I don't think you can interpret this law that we're talking about. There are some provisions that, of course by legal coercion, given the economic possibilities of the state, regulate a very important issue that is not disputed, of course, by a single category of citizens. On the other hand, one of these provisions, when it passes and if it passes, and why we voted for it last time, has the elements of an agreement between the person who is obliged and the state to whom the obligation is to which, in particular, the foreign currency savings. Therefore, it itself, since it is not, does not result from the obligation to sign a declaration, in fact, is not an attack on human rights. It's a manifestation of free will. I just want to point out in the sense that there is no such thing as apriori, understanding that it is necessary against human rights and the attack on human rights. If the law had committed, it would have made it impossible for a citizen to do something of his own free will in this segment, then that argument would have stood. Here's only because it's recorded and otherwise, of course, let everyone define themselves as they think they should.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25262	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrić. Correction of the incorrect quote, so Mr. Gligorić too. Short, please, everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25263	I'll take a minute. I just want to correct my colleague, Ćeman. This is not about the agreement, it's about the condition of the owner of the foreign savings, or the coercion. Because in order for the owner of the foreign savings to exercise his right to return savings, he must sign a certificate in the verification process. And the condition for that confirmation is the signing of these statements. Therefore, he cannot come without confirmation of his funds, and he cannot obtain confirmation until he signs a statement. So there's no misunderstanding. There's a simple condition that's set before saving, and he doesn't have a choice. Or raise your hands and don't ask the state or sign this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25264	Thank you very much. Would you like some more, Mr. Gligorić? Come on. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25265	What Mr. Andrić said, I'm behind it. We still have this one false quote when Ćeman spoke, the agreement between the state and the savings and so on. There's no deal here. Only the state has imposed its will on this country by forcing something to be respected. They're not partners at all in this case. They, in this case, are the only ones that are subject to conditions and demands. If you don't do it, you're even cut out for real so you can lose your right to make money. And that's already the Constitutional Court thing not to go that far. So in this case there is no agreement, there is no agreement, but only one will has imposed another will of respect and, among other things, imposes such a standard that is conditional in the sense that, if it does not, practically no verification, there is no means available. It's a one-sided will. It helps me, Professor. It's a Kunić. And that's why I don't think we can talk about this in that sense. If these are two wills as they are regulated by the contract when they buy some real estate, then we could take Mr. Ćeman's argument as correct. And in this case, I'm sure they didn't. Because why the Association of Old Foreign Savings wants to run changes and complements, they want to come up with a new law, because they're unhappy. So I'm saying, we can't accept it because it's about two wills, an agreement, because there must be one will here that suffers.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25266	dobor, thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the very proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the settlement of obligations based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings of MP Filip Andrić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. So there's a general majority, there's not one vote from the Federation. A little while ago, I don't know what happened now. Shall we agree on this? Then we'll go to the second round. Is there a request for a re-election? Come on, please. So there's no demands. We're going to the second round of voting. It's the ones who are against it. Please prepare yourselves. Vote now. So eight against, they don't have two-thirds. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Alignment of Obligations on the basis of the account of the old foreign exchange savings of MP Filip Andrić under Article 105, means the Rules of Procedure have been adopted in the proposed text. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The request of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to Article 105. The Bureau delivered this to us on the 17th of this month. We put this in the mail indicating that we're going to put this in today's order according to the Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the procedure under Article 105. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 46 I implore the representatives to prepare for a statement on the procedure of Article 105. Vote now. I konstatirati that this request was accepted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency by 23 votes to, 2 against, 3 abstentions. Consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Central Bank Act under procedure 105. Rules of Procedure. Now let's go to the law itself. Is there a need for recovery? Mr Špirić, second vice president of the House of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25268	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members. Here is a bill amending the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is, therefore, that the Central Bank should, on the basis of the regulations of the Central Bank Management Board, provide for mandatory reserve rates. I'd like it if the Central Bank or the Bureau had analyzed the current movements within the Central Bank based on a 20% rate. Given that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank is operating, not as a classic Central Bank, because it has no transmission function, but as a matter of principle, the rents of the board and here it is noted that it is for a more liberal relationship related to crediting the system of crediting business banks. I'm not convinced that the explanation we got on the line of what's going to happen. I supported Article 105's procedure, but I think the presidency should still have stayed in order to define the mandatory reserves and by law until we get to the point that the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina exists as a classic monetary institution in all other countries. So, she's here in a special regime and pulling these segments slowly out of the legal framework I'm afraid we'll get into something we wouldn't want. I won't support a change like this without that analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25269	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for a statement on the very request of the Presidency, i.e. the proposal for a law amending the Central Bank Act. Stand by. Vote now. I find that with 22 votes in favour of, 3 against, 6 abstentions, the entity's enough House of Representatives has adopted a bill amending the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. We're going to the 12th agenda, that's Ad.12. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Communication Act, also referred to in Article 105. Rules of Procedure I'm opening a debate on the procedure. There are no reports. 47 I'm closing the debate. Prepare for a plea. Vote now. I find that we have accepted with 20 votes in, 7 against, 4 abstentions of the procedure of Article 105. We're going to make a statement about the law. Is there a need to discuss it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm closing the debate. We are declaring ourselves on the very proposal for a law supplementing the Communication Act. Stand by. Vote now. So he's got the general, he's got most of the Federation out of RS. Can we agree on an eye? We're going to the second round of voting. What do we do? Okay, so it's a deal with the Rules of Procedure. Moving on. There was no consent in the College, and there was no entity majority. He's got a general. At the next session, we'll brief you and conduct the procedure. Thirteenth item of the agenda, that's Ad.13. Request from the SDS Club representative to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax in accordance with the shortened procedure of Article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25272	You can go to the second round right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25273	You want to do it again? We have a request to repeat the vote on the procedure. Stand by, please. Vote now. So he has a general, no entity majority from the Federation. We're going to the second round of voting. It's the ones who are against it. Stand by. Vote now. There is no two-thirds opposition and this request by the SDS Club has been accepted to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act in accordance with the procedure of Article 104, i.e. shortened procedure. 48 Moving to the 14th point, that's Ad.14. Request by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Signature, also the procedure of Article 104. I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. I'm closing the debate, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25275	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to make the point that I said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I don't think this law has a constitutional basis and we couldn't even conduct a debate about it at all, of course, that's my point of view. Otherwise, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has established that it has a constitutional and legal basis. So, I won't support this request or this request for a shortened procedure, and even when the law is in the process, I won't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25276	Okay, now we've been to procedure. Please keep that in mind. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We declare the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for an electronic signature law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Prepare to plead. Vote now. So I find that with 23 votes for and enough entity majority that this request by the Council of Ministers has been accepted that this law, Proposal for a Law on Electronic Signature, be considered in accordance with the shortened procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to the 15th point, that's Ad.15. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also under Article 104. Rules of Procedure I'm opening a debate on a request for procedure. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. Vote now. So he has a general majority, no entity from the RS entity. I suggest we go to the second round of voting because it is about changes and additions to the Council of Ministers and the dynamics that we have. We can decide today. So we have no consent to regrets in the College and the College will go to an agreement within the business period and report you to the next session. 49 We move to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act with the Commission Report on Finance and Budget, Proposer of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25279	We'll leave this for later.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25280	Okay, I was really willing to deal with this today, but here. So in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the College has an obligation to agree, i.e. to submit a report to you, it is possible at the next session. We're going to the 17th agenda, that's Ad.17. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina Police Officers Act in First Reading This proposal for a Council of Ministers bill delivered 17.5. We've adopted a shortened procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional Commission you've received. The Commission's report, the Joint Commission for 50 Defence and Security Policy, was received on 17th of the month. There were no amendments at the commission stage either. The Commission supported the draft law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Police Officers of BiH in the first reading. Vote now. - 23 for, 4 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. So we're going to make a statement to decide in the second reading. Stand by. Vote for second reading now. - 24 votes for, enough entity majority, 2 against, 1 abstention. So we decided on a second reading. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. We move to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on BiH Police Officers in a second reading. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that with 20 votes for, 4 against, 4 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we have adopted the proposal for a law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH and in a second reading. So the law is passed in this home. We're moving to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on BiH police officers in first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25284	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, when we discussed the commission phase of this law, one of my questions was. Is there anyone in line with this name? Namely, if anyone matched this name with anyone, and I got the answer that it didn't. I think that in this way it could not have been suggested, or should not have proposed in Parliament, simply to change the name of the State Border Service to the BiH Border Police, given that we know well enough how much effort and time it took for us to agree this name, which is current and so far is valid. Given that, the SDS Club will not support the Law amending the State Border Service Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25285	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on the BiH State Border Service in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. He's got a general majority. No entity. So there's no consent. He's going to get into college. 52 We move to the 20th point of the agenda. Ad.20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account in the first reading, Proposer of Agent Tihomir GligoriGligorić 24.5. We got this proposal. At the 81st session, the procedure was adopted with effect from Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Commission for Finance and Budgets was responsible. She's the one who delivered the 6.7 report to us. The Commission accepted the proposed text of the law with one amendment. The finance ministry delivered an opinion yesterday on this law that was delivered to you. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Commission, to explain the report which, it seems, had an effect that caused a lot of reactions, but, like this, subsequent reactions. So, on 24 May, we received all the amendment and addition of the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings, sent by Mr Gligorić's promoter. The proposal was also addressed to the Council of Ministers. So, to whom we delivered it, we got it to Parliament, we discussed it on the 52nd session of July 5th. By July 5th, we had no opinion on this law, nor did we have those present from the Council of Ministers who would comment on this law. We were given a legal deadline by procedure of 104, so we had to consider the bill of amendments. We only had one amendment submitted by Mrs. Sopta. The amendment was accepted and you saw of the 6 members of Commission 3 were for, 2 versus and 1 abstention. It is strange that we are only after the meeting, so, the Commission, after ten days, have requested talks with the Commission when a report has already been made and a debate has been held on the Commission. I wonder why we get the Council of Ministers' opinion in Parliament on July 24th, when they had exactly two months to give it early on time, which is negative? Why do we get a negative opinion from the Federation of BiH Finance Ministry on July 19th, then, who, on behalf of whom Snežana Rudić signed on July 20th, has no title, nor does it say who wrote the same negative opinion and the last of the Brcko District of the Brcko District's income management negative report? What I mean. Something happens that when something has passed on the Commission, a fat procedure has entered here in this House and will it be decided, of course, by the MPs, that we are then getting opinions and the arguments come out? Why doesn't the executive authority give an opinion, react at the moment when the law is directed, when we are here, when we have declared ourselves to the procedure, when we know what kind of bill we have? Why not respond to the Commissions in time, but at the last minute we get an opinion in front of the session itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25288	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Gligorić, Mr. Gligorić, pa Belkić. He had a question, Mr. Belkić. I agree to ask a question sooner. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25289	I need clarification, because I didn't get the best idea of some of the solutions Mr Gligorić is proposing. 53 Therefore, in Article 12 of the proposed amendments to the law, the position of Article 2 of the 18th basic law is changed in a manner where it says that the deadline for the payment of the old foreign exchange savings is 31.12.2011. The other provisions of Article 18 shall not be amended, so that Article 3 which speaks of a maximum cash pay of 1000 KM remains, until the end of 2007. Something doesn't agree with me. Since your intention was to satisfy the savings, if you say that the deadline for the cash payment of the old foreign currency savings was 31.12.2011. it is something more unfavourable than this deadline by the end of 2007, if I understood correctly, I allow that I did not understand it well and in the explanation advocates the basic principle, therefore, that the state of BiH, which I highly appreciate, is mandatory, etc., financial commitments, but the amendment of Mrs. ruža Sopta, which was adopted on the Commission, has changed the basic principle completely. Payment obligations are assumed by entities. Well, a little comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25290	Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will answer these questions, but before that, as a proposal to give a basic introduction. I have proposed amendments and additions to this law, primarily to the conclusion of the House of Peoples, which have reached the conclusion that changes and additions of this law should be carried out within 90 days and that the deadlines be reduced be taken into account. When I suggested that he go according to a shortened procedure and when the House of Representatives accepted, then we were practically in the 70th Lady of the House of Nations. We've broken that deadline, but it's not really a problem. We are in a position to decide today. I am saying this because it would be good for us to respect ourselves, because Parliament, the second part of the Parliamentary Assembly, has clearly said that it should be done and I think it should have been done by the Council of Ministers, but since they haven't done, otherwise, many of the conclusions of this House or others, they don't respect, here I have done and offered to amend and supplement that law and, precisely to appreciate what our colleagues from another home asked us to do. I had in mind the international contract, Annex G. The International Treaty was signed on 31 December 2001, and this aneks g. speaks of private property and acquired rights. It says private property and acquired rights of citizens and other legal entities of the former SFRY will be protected by the successor states, in line with the annex's provision. 1.a. In Article 2 of the right to movable and immovable property, which is located in the successor State, to which citizens or other legal entities were entitled until 31 December 1990 will be recognised, protected and returned by that State, in accordance with established standards and standards of international law and independent of nationality, citizenship, place of residence or domicile of those persons, etc. Since contracts are being treated here to save clients with a bank, in fact, signed a contract, this applies to them, and that is why I stress that this International Agreement, which we have signed, obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, along the way, perhaps an answer to Mr. Belkić's question. Since Mrs. Ruža Sopta has made an amendment and it stands there in fact as it is now in law. The guarantee is BiH as a state, and entities would be obliged to return it. But simply the state, when it comes to this kind of obligation and under the International Agreement, whether the state accepts the continuity of everything it was, then the state must be guaranteed in this case as well. I don't mind, so I'm, I think we've satisfied practically everything we're talking about, what we need to keep in mind. 54 In short, here we said, five years is a deadline, not 13 now by law. That there's no more verification with the APIFA agency, but that it's a leveling in business banks, a business level as it is order as anywhere. At the same time as we talk about bonds, we've made it possible for that securities to actually be valuable paper. On that basis of three billion, let's put together all the domestic and ino banks, one billion and a half of the budgets that we've made are possible in this way, practically, to free the state from cash and then we taxfully listed what we mean from the shares in state systems, from buying business space to, practically, issuing building permits. Not to waste time, you looked at it, and that way we think that we can save important finances in BiH when they take care of the pay, when we adopt this law. Of course, in the bond, we said that those within the maturity should be in euro or that the client, or the savings, accept to be in KM as well. Such an alternative has been left in this law. And, of course, we also have the opportunity here to reach the maturity of these bonds in fact they can, where we are taxing here in the proposal to use these securities, bonds and for some other purposes, during their civil requirements for buying some business space and other things. This was about interest. We have said this by means of new financial means, as they have said in the existing law. We didn't stress anything special here, except that the interest issue should be arranged with banks like that everywhere in the world. What Mrs Milićević said, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned. I wish we had been present here from the Council of Ministers, I mean, first of all, Mr. Terzić and Minister Mrićka, who, when we passed that law, were so energetic and explained why that law is good and, in my opinion, it's against the constitution, but we'll have a chance to hear more about it than the Constitutional Court, because Mr. Prof. Dr. Nikola Špirić has launched an appeal at the BiH Constitutional Court. But they respected nothing but the deadline required by the Constitutional Court remains human rights violations based on the rights to their property, immobility or cash money, all one thing. And they were not satisfied to deliver within two months the opinion that the Finance Commission had asked them to deliver. It is truly amazing how negative opinions are now being sent that this is necessary practically to refuse such a law. I want to say the same thing here, which is, many say BiH will go bankrupt. That we don't have a source of income. I am here asking first of all the Council of Ministers for one creativity in that direction. I'm asking here and the OHR people, who are helping, but I think they're getting more time off, because they're just saying there's no money and we have to have as long a deadline as possible. Creativeness is seen by one authority in that. That they try to find resources. Well, does one respected expert like Mr. Jure Pelivan need to say, there are sources of resources. He's also telling you what the resources are. If I have to, I'll do it again. But no. The executive government is silent as if there's no way to find funds on that basis. Here, we have the OHR people here. Here I am now asking you as a citizen, as an MP, as a man, so find that controversial, perhaps a billion through some mini donation in this country and thus help the citizens of BiH. Your mouths are full of BiH citizens, and BiH citizens are becoming more and more difficult to live in this BiH area. We have international brains in BiH. How could the Croatian Republic resolve the issue of old foreign savings? How could Serbia? I guess they don't have OHR, so it's easier for people. So please, if you're our sincere friends, ask for a mini donor conference, come on, then you can tell the citizens, etc. You lecture these local politicians whenever you want to go out there for a pay phone and you say local politicians take money. These in Parliament take money. Citizens can take it. How can citizens put up with us and you together in BiH? They're getting harder alive. No jobs, no economies, and people don't make sense. Do we have any regard for these citizens? 55 And that's why I have to say this, because they asked me from the association to read this, because people can't get a word in and if we're a citizen's home and I think we're working in the citizens' interest and that nothing can be foreign in this room, but everything that's available to them as we are. The requirement for OHR and the High Representative to leave BiH's territory for agency news that the Office of the High Representative and OHR is against cutting the deadline for paying off old foreign savings. This association does not hide its indignation by meddling in BiH's internal affairs. With this kind of pressure, the High Representative and the OHR, for the goat some time, have shown impertinently that their intentions in this country are honorable or fair. It is obvious that their stay in this country has only one goal, which is to achieve the political goals of their employers. The alleged transfer of their stay in this country as guardians of peace and human rights is just another one in a series of eye rubdowns to this country's tormented people, with the goal of keeping war-to-human tensions and preventing the country's economic prosperity and its citizens. That this is the case, their best testimony is to continue the robbery of old foreign currency savings and some kind of construction of BiH's economic stability on robbed citizens' money, individuals of old foreign currency savings. If the High Representative were really concerned about the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its economic sustainability, then he would certainly be working to find other sources of funding for the country, and certainly not by robbing their citizens. We're just interested in whether Mr. High Representative and his country are in favour of the robbery of private property and the financing of obedient politicians by robbery of money? We are also interested in whether in the State of the High Representative and his associates, without any responsibility, private property can be usurped and held with it as if the owner of that property does not exist? We know that we do not have the power to deal with such a force as a powerful state apparatus, which is supported by alleged peacemakers and human rights fighters, but we can move initiatives that such peacemakers and human rights fighters leave our country's territory and enable us to finally live free and fight for the economic prosperity of ourselves and our country. As the High Representative and OHR, a public pawn, urged representatives of BiH authorities to continue to violate the fundamental human rights of its citizens, it is obvious that it has given the green light to members of the Council of Ministers and their groups, to continue robbing this people and creating huge wealth, while most BiH citizens live on the edge of social survival. For all of this, and in the inability to take some other measures, this association has called for an initiative to sign a petition to leave the OHR and the High Representative from BiH. We call on all BiH citizens to join this initiative, sign this request and thus contribute to the better future of BiH, its citizens and future generations for the Management Board, Svetozar Nišić. People didn't get a chance to say this. I read this on behalf of them as a representative of citizens and peoples, the old savings I didn't and perhaps this is what Mr. Zorić said well. Well, since he says old savings aren't, but a lot of people have said why I'm so in favour, it's not political marketing. Then in that case, let me tell my colleagues. I didn't run. Yes, the party has proposed to me for the BiH Assembly to be the bearer of the list. I gave up. I informed my party and informed the Election Commission. Because the citizens said they have no one to vote for, always the same people, so I listened to the voice of the citizens and I seem to be lonely. But, okay. 56 So I don't want a political promotion, because I won't be in this assembly. I won't be on the lists, and that's how I want to say, that as an MP, we really need to make sure that we help citizens to get their rights, and since I heard that Mr. Džaferović will run, then I didn't give up on my own. And finally, I ask you, if we're really honest people who won't allow human rights to be violated by citizens, if these people have earned hard money, lost their health, today are not in a position to single out a hundred marks so that a man who doesn't have two kidneys would go on dialysis, that people die because they don't have the means to pay for the cure, and I know a man who has a million marks, is the government supposed to write the privatisation process and end the privatisation process, taking these people's money, and these people can't become factory owners, and other of their money become owners of factories in BiH. So, guys, is there justice? Is there any honesty? Is there any morals in this country? If there is, we will support these amendments and the amendments to the law, in those five years new sources of safe funding will be provided. We're not gonna keep hearing the same story that there's no money, let the OHR help us get the money, so we're gonna raise a loan from the World Bank and the IMF. What we propose to them is projects or they approve of the funds for the projects they want. We'll take it, and here we want to finance the old foreign savings and let them help us get to such a loan amongst other things. We now have 300m dollars in the Central Bank and Mr. Kozarić said that we can make those funds available to pay off the old foreign exchange savings. We have the Central Bank's profits. We have the possibility of selling out a business space bank, we have a succession. We also have foreign borrowing, because that money will practically come to BiH. It's the best project, because these people are going to buy, spend, buy factories, invest that money, and they're going to regain confidence that citizens from abroad are going to gain trust in the state and are saving in it. Unless we have any reason to accept this, all those who today care as the SDA Party for the financial bankruptcy of BiH. BiH will financially go bankrupt when we refuse and people go to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and instead of three billion will have to give nine billion, so BiH will financially bankrupt, and imagine what Minister Ljerka Marić says. He says, we'll make sure you don't get your rights in Strasbourg and you know it, you're told. Imagine how they interfere with the BiH judiciary, when they have the courage to exercise power, interfere with the International Court and send messages to people that it will prevent it. You can see a lot from that. I ask you to and, what you're saying and all of my nausea, misery and bile that I present about this problem, nod you to Mr. Džaferović's head, but if you're a moral man you'll vote for these changes and complements and then I'll give you my hand and then I'll say you're fighting for the citizens of BiH, not on the robbed money of these people you're building a position. How you're gonna get into the village and tell people that these people are right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25292	Please, Mr. Gligorić, don't speak directly to anyone now. Finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25293	Thank you. But just when I was talking about how much I care and explaining that I'm not going to go on the list and I'm not going like you, Mr. Džaferović, in that case, then you realize that sometimes a man speaks honestly and you try. Look how you react. So try to understand that at least I'm telling the truth once. But the worst of it is you never will. Well, you know what they said about a smart man having a right to stupidity, but it's a stupid obligation, so now you see who I told. As for this until 2011, it was said that in five years, Articles 12 to 2011 and 2007. I do not see any contradiction, but it is thought that in the first year, payment is made for the powerless, sick, and that 57 is in 2007, and that this part of the period remains to be paid, to provide the dynamics which, of course, we said there would be a need to adopt regulations at the entity level to harmonise and bring all of this into line, and in that period of five years, this dynamic can also be harmonised. That's what you're thinking. We offered a solution. It's on the table. I beg you to, however, support it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25294	Mr. Zorić answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25295	It is an incorrect quote from counterpart Gligorić that he is the only representative who has not run for this election.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25296	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25297	Well, look, I have a dilemma now whether to go with this replica or not, but I really think there's some things to say already, because this parliament is where to say what MPs think, or MPs think, but they really need that rhetoric to be appropriate to this home and to bear in mind that they don't insult others and to watch what they're saying. So there were a lot of these words here about calling for justice, about morale, that those who don't support this law would be contrary to justice, against morality, against honesty, well, here's the vice president, how, in fact, it's immoral, because it's not morally his behavior, it's mentioned to the party whose president I am, so, the Party of Democratic Action, as you say, robbing people, we're building positions, how we control financial flows, how we don't know how we influence the judiciary, etc. Mr. Gligorić, I really didn't mean to say this, but not that it's not moral to talk about morality, justice and honesty on your part when you're the only person in this House that I think is verified you have that you're accused, you have a judicial verdict and you talk about crime, and you're the only one who has the paper that you are, i.e. a conditional but judicial verdict on this and don't ask you to hold the letter of justice and morality, you are the last to have the right to speak of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25298	Okay, thank you. Replica Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25299	Now I can really see that this has really hit you. When you... that decision to make the subject a Tihomir Gligorić. Let everything be as you say, and you know it isn't. My problem is the appeal, and you know here on the committee that there's a special Ombudsman report on human rights that in my case he broke and that we've passed one law that doesn't have the opportunity to appeal in the second degree and it will come to you here at this Parliament. We're going to have to make changes and supplement laws, and you know how that court did and what it did. First I was released, and then they were ordered, and so I am my dear Elmire Jahiću being punished, and you know it, and you know it, and you know that there is no crime, but it was one legal interpretation of the issue, not crime, etc., but it doesn't matter. It will be dealt with quickly in both the Constitutional Court and the State Court, because it is still an open question. That's nice of you to keep it quiet, but I'm putting you back on the agenda. Please come out on behalf of the SDA club when you're so proud of this party 58 to say if you'll support it or not. Have the courage of a citizen, and don't make any dribbles and turn away from the right subject and produce some new...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25300	Replica was a gentleman. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25301	Yes, it is. But I'm just saying, let them say clearly whether they support it or not. Well, I know you won't, but you're a lawyer and it's a shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25302	There's a log-in order. Please respect the order of the reported. Mr Špirić, then Mr Novaković, then Potočnik, and then the minister, joined the deputy finance minister Kumalić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25303	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, I first thought whether to report for a word at all, following an intervention of the amendments to the law, concerning the old foreign savings, which we adopted just a few points ago, these are amendments and additions of fellow Members of Filip Andrić. You know that I've been a friend of this project since the beginning, that I've run a motion several times before the Constitutional Court, that even now there's a submission to the constitutionality of the law we passed, but what I can't understand or I'm not, there's something wrong with me. That we think this problem is solved, and that we are in conflict with the state government, entity governments and Brcko District, where this problem is located and, in the end, we are also facing OHR. There is no law to ask for room for compromise and reason, not conflict. So, I'm sorry when I passed the tariff law, then they passed it to the Council of Ministers and the Direct Taxation Directorate. Since here the debt of old foreign savings under the bill is located, therefore, on entities and on Brcko District, then it is quite logical that the commission, don't be angry, I have no objections to the work of the commission, asked for the vision we received. I voted against the laws adopted by people when the old foreign savings were at stake. I don't think he's good. I think the Council of Ministers should have found a mechanism to deal with this mathematics permanently and to shorten this deadline. I'll support it for five years, if you calculate the condition that it's possible. I don't need old foreign savings, I'm sorry, I'm an old foreign currency savings officer for speaking for them good, and I'm an unreal law. They need a law that solves the problem. It's almost certain that it's possible to cut the deadline by 13 years, in 3, 4 and 5 years, but I'm not convinced that it's possible to cut it to five years. I wish I had that math. So this is not a matter of conflict, it's a matter of state mathematics. And don't worry about it now. It's pre-election time. I respect people. From the beginning, I've been looking at this problem and I've been looking at the Constitutional Court and let's see if the Council of Ministers, the entity government, is looking for space and they say this isn't real, that it's breaking their financial condition, let's look for a new report to ask what's real. It's a solution for old foreign currency savings. It's not the solution to adopt five years today, to get the answer tomorrow that it's impossible. That's all I ask. If we get an answer that's possible, why don't we support it? Now the question is 59 will we make a law that affects the desire of old foreign savings, which is impossible to realise or we will seek a solution, force the Council of Ministers and entity governments to make budgets, to come out with the correction of the law. It's a dilemma for me. I must say, the dilemma is for me. So, the easiest way to vote today for this five-year change is the least of the problems, but tomorrow the issue of realisation, the functioning of the law opens up. Who's supposed to enforce this law? So, entity governments and the Council of Ministers. If they warn us and say that it is impossible to realise in five years, then they write a letter to Parliament, whether we will remain deaf or ask to work on the problem. Today I'm not even about to turn this down. So, I ask you to try to look for a new report together with the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments to see how realistically short the deadline is. I claim it's possible to shorten, so it's possible from 13 to 10 and it's a shift either from 13 to 9 or to 8. But if a really five-year-old condition breaks financial endurance or raises a question of responsibility for us as Parliament. Someone will be in Parliament tomorrow, someone won't. No one should be interested in that, especially right now, but it's almost certainly a responsibility here. Well, in that sense, these are dilemmas for me. I ask you, we do not need to open conflicts with the Council of Ministers or with entity governments, especially we do not need OHR, because it is about the easy transmission of the European Union's office and then we will need help. I'm convinced we're going to need help, God forbid we don't need it, and I think they're the least guilty about this situation, when it comes to the law and when it comes to the old virgin savings. Thank you very much. I didn't come out here to prove I'm a friend of the OHR, but I have to tell you that we can't behave when they do a good thing, it's good, when they do a bad interest in BiH. When we produce a better political establishment, they will leave even when we propose and vote for real laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25304	Thank you. Replica Mr. Gligorić minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25305	I mean, Mr. Špirić, when he said five years from now that we don't have the necessary indicators, we also haven't asked for 13 years, it's okay, then I apologize. And as for this, I just want what Mr. Špirić was saying, that we should let it be seen. I suggested and I want you to vote on this. All well-intentioned people, who want to get out of this problem today, may they propose new amendments to this law, but I want my changes to vote today and to end it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25306	Thank you very much. We have the next situation. The word was still sought by another member of the College. I suggest that after that we give the word to the Deputy Minister, he expressed his wish, if the MPs agree, well, eventually I can still ask the question, and if not, I think it is useful, then he will be the first Mr. Novaković after the deputy minister. Now the word is Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25307	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we here in Parliament some time ago had this topic on the agenda and we brought, as far as I know, a law, which saves foreign exchanges, obviously not satisfied, but this law reflects the real possibilities of the BiH state and all 60 institutions, which should aliminate the law. I know that today it is popular to support foreign savings requirements and I know that it is not popular when these demands are not supported, it is quite clear to me, I am one of those who goes out of course to the elections and whose party goes out to the elections and with full responsibility I am talking about what we are talking about right now. I don't think we're going to help the state or foreign savings if we put the state and those institutions in the state that are supposed to aliminate this law in a position of financial collapse, financial breakdown. I don't think we helped the state or the foreign savings then. We here in the package of cases have clear warnings both from the state government and entity governments and from the government of the Brcko District of BiH. I beg you, we take these warnings and those attitudes, simply if we want to be responsible we can't disobey. Otherwise we'll take full responsibility for ourselves. I am not, the right to tell you, after these warnings, ready to take responsibility and, if I consider myself to be a friend of both these states and foreign savings. And that is why I cannot support the amendments, that is, this proposal tabled by Mr Gligorić and only Mr Gligorić to tell you, you may find it appropriate to leave the OHR from BiH, which is why you read it. It doesn't work for me. OHR needs this country still. I spoke publicly about it, and I need to tell you here for this pay phone. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25308	Thank you very much. Replica one minute, please, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25309	Dear Mr. Džaferović, to answer that he needs OHR. I don't need it, because OHR came after you took over, your party power in BiH in '90. and after you said we would have democracy in Švajcarska, then you caused war in BiH and then people came to the side because of such and such policies, that we have mentors and tutors here, not because of Tihomir Gligorić and his political options and, of course, that suits you and these citizens should be clear that we have mentorship here as if we were retarded because of the Party's policy of democratic action.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25310	Replica Mr. Džaferović. I'm asking after this to end up in this section, to move on, we've got a lot more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25311	Mr Gligorić, who started the war here, take the UN tribunal's rulings, if you don't believe me, that it is your political mentor Slobodan Milošević, if you don't believe me it is him, then take the UN tribunal's verdicts and read them, even if you believe them and don't hesitate to bring us into such political discussions, on a very important issue that we must find a solution in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25312	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumalić, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25313	First of all, I want to point out what the condition is for this law to be passed, meaning the Law on the settlement of obligations under the old foreign currency savings. My position, in many of these two previous discussions of Mr Špirić and Mr Džaferović, has made it easier for me to say that BiH 61 is an extremely indebted country. BiH's debt is 63.8% in favour of this today. That according to the Treaty of Mastrict in '91. This means that the European Union rules are allowed up to 60%. The external debt debt structure is 4 billion and 258 or 29%. An old interest savings savings of 2 billion and 300 million or 15.60%. Other internal debt, war claims, which are already regulated by law in entities and District Brcko 19.30%. When this is summed up, it's 63.8%. To point out that the state has one obligation to an international one, to resolve the issue of restitution, or denationalisation, that the commission is at the end of me, here I have this physibility study that space is not easy to solve and the issue of restitution, so we'll go through some compromise, to go natural, and only in due course in some later period financially. Secondly, the IMF and the World Bank's position, which are otherwise maintained by the financial sector in BiH, must be respected here and that concession loans can only be obtained for certain purposes, further, that we have already violated the principle that it suggested, so to speak, the International Monetary Fund. In short, BiH has no opportunity at this time to charge these deadlines on the basis of the old foreign savings to cut short, especially I here stress the state is only a guarantee, but financial obligations are borne by entities and the Brcko District. That the views were, I also spoke to the entity governments, that they were terrible and energetic in the fact that these deadlines, even earlier opinions were particularly from the RS that it was 13 years old, that it was too short. I would point out that I really need and have a lot of understanding for old foreign savings, but my family has no huge claims based on old foreign currency savings, but not to quote one great military leader from... a century ago who said that the state is a liability. That means I suggest that Mr Gligorić be completely rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25314	Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25315	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I would not introduce the concepts of state and foreign savings here. I'd say it a little differently. In fact, there is a state and there are citizens of this country, whose citizens as well as all over the country care about citizens and citizens care about the state. In that part, therefore, in this offer of the state on the one hand and the demand of a part of its citizens on the other hand highlighted through the law that Mr Gligorić offered was to seek solutions and, right here, there was a problem that the state had no will to seek this solution, but after two months of time to look for this solution, the state came to the conclusion that it could not help its citizens. I see it that way. The responsibility for accepting or not accepting the law is not only at this home, but also on those who should have given this home the opportunity to discuss this law differently. Perhaps Mr. Gligorić, who proposed this bill, would have satisfied himself, I would have banged at nine years old, if someone had been willing in two months to account for whether there was a nine-year or eight-year-old variant, not five? Unfortunately, this is not the only law proposed by MPs and not addressed enough attention until it comes to this stage. Eh, now we are in a phase where the law should either be accepted or rejected and someone should take responsibility for all the negatives and, of course, no one for all the positive ones will have the credit, if, eventually, there are positive decisions. It's not true that all these and every provision proposed here in the law is unacceptable. I expected it to be said in this report, i.e. what they wrote from the ministries, what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. Maybe we could have come to a solution in that direction. This is a very simple solution. Everything is unacceptable, the law should not be accepted. Much 62 easier than looking for a solution that was acceptable and, unfortunately, for who knows which time we found ourselves here in a position, which, only needs to bear responsibility for the future of this country, or for the future of the state, but also for the citizens who, behold, are not damaged by the error of this country, means by no mistake of this state, but of course this country has taken over and must take over, inherit the problems of the country from which it has arisen. I wouldn't be talking about other difficult issues now when it comes to this foreign savings, which is why some other things aren't solved here, where the money from the Ljubljanska Banka is, etc. We better not open those questions, then we'll get in trouble. And, most of all, from one inert state to its citizens, I will support the law proposed by Mr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25316	Mr. Potočnik, get ready for Mr. Avdić and Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25317	I didn't ask for a word. I was just reacting a little more temperament.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25318	Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that this law has at least encouraged the thinking and response of all the BiH authorities, who have found themselves responsible to implement the provisions of this law, and this is good from the aspect of what the law is encouraged and what is simply proposed in the parliamentary procedure of the Representative's House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, normally and the House of Nations, with the law binding and passing laws binding entity governments and the District of Brcko and giving them a job and a task which, at least according to their statements, cannot be carried out. And now it's really hard to meet here and how to discuss and how to take responsibility to take this home to simply pass a law that entity governments and legislative authorities cannot carry out what is required over the next five years, so it's really uninvited and extremely conflictable if it can be said, think and simply give a vote for this law. Which means that my reflections are going towards the fact that in the truth how not, the BiH state has a feeling that it does a little bit for its citizens. Some say nothing at all, but feel free to say, give an assessment that it does little for its people, for its citizens, and that in this context it has a responsibility. But that responsibility cannot be encouraged in this way by a law that simply goes beyond the real possibilities of this country. It is considered that these are practically two billion commitments from BiH, two entities and Brcko District, then it should simply be serious and cautious from the aspect of the adoption of such legal projects. So I'm not going to comment on everything that's on the benches, but I'd say one little cartoon that saves us this House. With what words they seek our cooperation and our understanding. It is not appropriate to say that the adoption of this law is a real test for the BiH state, when it comes to its relationship with individual citizens. So far, the laws that have been passed for the whole country have mostly been laws of repression and imposition, believe it or not. Read that text a little bit. So there were laws of repression and imposition, such as tax, military, police, etc. Thank you, gentlemen, for saving up when you sent us a greeting letter like this and looking for our cooperation. Since fellow Gligorić has simply done everything possible to reject this law, he has done everything really on his own to reject this law and to create such a high charge of animosity and against this law, that I will be very happy to vote against this law. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25320	Mr. Križanović, then Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25321	I thank Mr. Chairman, I would briefly say about this bill, trying not to repeat what my colleagues were saying and not to repeat the debate we already had two or three months ago. I would respect the fact that this is essentially about the state's attitude towards its citizens. When we bring it down to that plane, then we can conclude that the state has mistreated the citizens of BiH, towards its citizens. First of all, she joined the adoption of laws under the Constitutional Court, not out of her own understanding of the needs and responsibilities of her citizens, but out of necessity and coercion of the Constitutional Court. Second. In the adoption of this law, this also showed a debate two or three months ago, it was thought that simply in seeking a solution, in particular the payment deadline was not an effort to find all possible sources to secure these funds and reduce the payment deadline. I will not say here that it is essentially legal, private property, that this is about human rights, but we must also bear in mind that it is about the one and economic interest of the BiH state to give its citizens the funds, which will remain here again. They're not funds to be disbursed from this country. And I am not simply convinced that the effort has been made to find all possible sources of shortfall in this deadline and I support what my colleague Špirić said. It's a shame that, on one occasion, the polarity of the Council of Ministers' stubborn stance, that nothing can be done and, on the other hand, I must now criticise the motion to direct one to a very radical proposal from the point of view of the deadline. We come into a situation where one good intention, one to say a job that would be significant, it simply fails this proposal, and then we're going to race like a VAT, which someone will invent for seven years, so someone eight, so ten, and we're going to circle around again without a solution. I would suggest that we keep this bill alive, which is quite good for me, except for this five-year term. You know, they don't even have to save any of it, like fellow Špirić said, if we pass the law... for two years, what have we done if it doesn't work out? Or it's unreal enough that we don't have any argument that it's possible. I would suggest that, in conclusion, the Finance Commission should meet again with the Council of Ministers and try to find arguments, whether it is seven, eight or nine, and I don't know how much to do, and that, however, something would be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović, before Ljiljana Milićević, intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25323	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have called earlier about Mr. Špirić's discussion and now Mr. Križanović. Gentlemen, you had 45 days, you had a bill. No one's ever made an amendment. So he didn't ask to be erased or changed. The Commission considered it. The council of ministers positively ignored the code of this is not in the story. They only showed up the other day, before the IMF people drew attention to what was going on. Now we have negative opinions from all governments. 64 floor one. I cannot understand the law on which Mr Gligorić operates has proposed a Council of Ministers. The changes and additions that came, we sent to the Council of Ministers. The entity governments have not proposed the law to which this applies. How can you expect me to send it to the Brcko District of Amendments and Supplements now? I guess the Council of Ministers, who was the promoter on their behalf of the common original law, was supposed to deliver this as well. I don't see any new needs that are all reports, if it's... The RS government negatively, everything is negative, we all know what it's about to say or if time is going to buy, say you're buying it, but why the commission will meet again. We didn't have an amendment, one was the only one and accepted by the promoter, the Rose's amendment passed. So, what's the new moment? The new moment is that a law has passed on the Commission, so let's get rid of it as a home and everything is fine. I don't see the need to call the commission back.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25324	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović asked for a word, so Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25325	Only to my colleague, Milićević, to answer briefly why I did not invest the amendment in this sense in which I discussed it. I couldn't simply submit the amendment, I didn't have the documentation available to justify the reduction of that deadline to five, seven or eight years, because I don't have it, so I say I'm asking if it's possible to ask for one firm argument and the possibility of seeing as much as possible of cutting this deadline. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25326	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm listening to the presentation of a representative of the Council of Ministers, surprised that we have contradictory claims. Last session, when we discussed the same law, BiH was said to be a medium-indebted country. Now we have information, here, we heard earlier, says BiH is an overindebted country. What's true about the ministry? That's my question. Please, I want you to answer that a little later, I'm going to look back on the foreign savings obligations, actually BiH's obligations to its citizens. First of all, I think BiH is obliged to respect the right to support justice and to find solutions in that direction. You have not assured me with your arguments that you have worked hard enough to find solutions for the return of old foreign savings. You did not show good will to co-operate with foreign savings on all those ways to compensate for the return of foreign savings, where they were in the mood, to take over old foreign exchange savings based on the values that BiH had and has and provides for the possibility of using ransoms, leases and others not to list all values, which were available only to everyone, who had left their value at BiH's disposal for 16 years. Does it take 16 more years for someone by this state to fulfil the right, the obligation. I have the impression that BiH has made commitments based on the return of the old foreign currency savings, that it does not meet either the divorce and the derelict. I think not only did she not give the attention needed that a valid analysis had not been done, that not all the resources that BiH has with it had not been looked at, in order to restore citizens' trust. It's not just about returning old foreign exchange savings to people who have left without their resources, usurping and 65 available to institutions or the question we've asked here. Where's the money from the old foreign savings? We never got an answer where that money was. He was, he really existed. And to talk about, that BiH will go bankrupt, it has bankrupted by devalued its citizens and devalued the right to justice and the right to compensation and when it is said here what is popular, popular gentlemen. Is it popular not to pay back the debt? It will be that today it is unpopular not to repay debt or produce debt. What's a message? A message to anyone who is powerful and capable of having something to spare. First and foremost, it is essential to restore the trust of citizens in this country, who will build this country. The country rests on BiH citizens, on their work, on their contribution. Oh, it's not about a small number of people. There's a parallel to the war damage. Of course, it is an obligation to damage those to whom war damage has occurred, material damage. We hear so much money from the public and it has officially entered BiH, based on reconstruction, reconstruction and damages to the war, simply incredible that now the old foreign currency is being put into the same plane. Give people what's theirs to make available, I think it's basic and it can't be questionable. We can all wonder why we're in this situation. The Dayton Agreement was signed long ago. The war has passed a long time ago, and today we are discussing the return of old foreign savings, which is the property of people who have invested their lives by working out, investing, investing. That money turned around and used it to build this country and institutions. And I wouldn't ask the question of coming back at all, but just the question of when, as soon as we say which way, we're actually going to figure out what that way is. The responsibility of the executive is to find solutions and therefore you are set up and receive salaries. It's our place to stand in the way of justice. To demand that rights be respected, and your gentlemen, that's why you've committed yourself, you've entered these functions, you've committed to finding solutions, you're full of experts, and you're doing your job. Don't lecture us, and don't take any further part in making these citizens sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25328	I thank Mrs. Perkanović. The word has the chairman of the dom, gospodin Raguž, and let Mr. Beriz Belkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25329	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there have been several very important grades here, so here we are, as representatives, speaking our opinion. First, what the state can do and what's more important to the state or people. It's a very important question, and I've heard from the deputy minister of evaluation, so it's much more important than several hundred thousand people. You need to be very careful with those grades, because what a state without people is and who does actually state. The point of establishing a state and a state order is to be in office of your country nothing else. It's the meaning of the existence of state existence. These people have waited 14 years, as far as I know, you know what 14 years is, and now it's been offered another 13 years, it's 27 years. Take the population average, here's the few hundred thousand people, so look how many of them will welcome. I think those parameters at least one of you executives lined up here in public. How is it even possible for all of this law to remain that these people exercise these rights, and what percentage of them would make it real? Here, first question. Second question. Can we once look ourselves in the eye and say what unspeakable blind listening means to international economics and social policy organisations in this country? It's in action, and where we are. On the last scale of the European 40 and some percentage unemployment, 66 do not use resources and a number of other things. And from where we are going to aliminate not only these needs but some others, if we follow that policy further. For me, there is a serious question of the credibility of such a policy when it comes to the top priorities of Bosnian Herzegovina's people. I also say that here in public when it comes to the launch of energy, water, infrastructure, roads and everything else, without saying when it comes to balance in debt service and serviceing the needs of its own citizens. Let's balance it out, here, we won't do anything else. And, what one real percent should go to the IMF, the World Bank and the rest of them, I think they stand a little better than those people, well, here on behalf of those people should at least offer a balance in service. We have a single account, we have stable financial flows, we've introduced VAT, I guess these reforms have been in a more high-quality service of this country's needs and I'm responsible here. I think this home has shown one maturity by opening a public debate, speeding up the adoption of this law to create the possibility that after two months we can look at its effects. Unfortunately, the executive government doesn't follow. Don't follow that, and we can't, holy is the true private property of gentlemen. We cannot, with this attitude of the institutions to this issue, say to ourselves that we are a legal state or that we can meet the European standard. I'm not going to say that five years is a real deadline, but I mean that it's a lot more real than 13 years, and if I'm in a position to define myself between 13 and 5, I'll always be here in five years. If there was a willingness to communicate, a calculation, some resented me for asking some of the experts to make a calculation. I wish they'd given it to the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, because it's their job. So let's see, I'm telling you that there are real sources that can do this for 13 years, at the very least, I can cut and not just halve, but that the resources from which this is going to be allomented are being strengthened by gentlemen. So who are we going to sell the telecoms to? What do we do with them if we don't serve our own people? So we're in an administrative bureaucratic network that doesn't have, after all, creation or a step up, and that's one alibi for entity governments and the Council of Ministers policy, and I'm not going to stand behind this thing and have nothing to do with the pre-election campaign. I haven't made a single statement on this political matter, and I don't want any political point. It's an aspolute principled issue. We had an obligation to analyse the effects, application and effects of this law, according to what we adopted within 90 days. We're doing this, those who haven't given enough instructions to answer, I'm not about to dismiss this law. I can, possibly here if there were constructive stories to make another effort together on additional reports and arguments, I wouldn't run away from it, and I'm not running away, so maybe it's the most mature thing if we could go in that direction, but let's give it a deadline. I think it's, but ignoring, formal approach to this country we see, her people, where she leads. I think it is time to break this practice and enter more courageously into legal solutions, concerning people, their private ownership, so I will either support this law or if we think it is mature to give a reasonable deadline for a new report by the Commission, but on the trail of precise guidelines that would mean a maximum reduction of this deadline, a precision of the resources from which this can be alimated and that it will be within 15-20 days, so that we can consider it in the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25330	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go. Here, we'll see the chairman takes over, I don't know who's next on the list, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25331	Here, I first answered the question, unfortunately I didn't get a completely clear answer and I'm not convinced that the intervention on Article 18 is correct to the end, I think it will produce, in the least 67 words, a certain dilemma. That was a good intention, but here I am also to determine myself about the proposed amendments and the addition of the law, of course with the right to make a few brief comments. So here, on several occasions, it has been said that it is forced by the Constitutional Court, i.e. by the Constitutional Court of BiH, etc. The state finally passed the law, which is true, however, not because the state did not want to solve it, but because the state was not allowed to do so, that we are clear and it is clear that these are the jobs that entities have declared their own and did entities. Furthermore, it is very important to me that there are no MPs here, I am absolutely sure, who is not ready to go in the direction of solutions that will satisfy the old foreign savings, but should be understood that there are MPs who have a sense of responsibility for their function in that legislative authority, which is directly related to the executive power, with public finances etc., therefore, there is this kind of responsibility. I am inclined to be clear, I am inclined to preserve this initiative, namely to preserve this proposal or to better say the will to amend the law, but unfortunately, the Council of Ministers, or executive authorities, which are in some ways only quantifiable to give an assessment, so I insist on the following. I don't need to, or I don't respect an evaluation of persons outside institutions, persons I won't be able to ask in three years, and what about that assessment? So we need an assessment of an institution that will be alive and responsible to realize it. I respect Mr. Jure Pelivan very much, but the assessment of Jure Pelivan is optional. He has no responsibility for that assessment, but if the assessment of the Ministry of Finance is not Ljerka Marić, but the Ministry of Finance, as a document, then it is something that a man can, in some ways, calm down. So, if nothing, the government has to recognize that it's an inevitable change of law. There are no MPs who will keep the law from changing, to speak openly. I guess the Council of Ministers realized that it was such an atmosphere and that such a mood of these MPs here, well, now that that's how it is, someone was saying, come out here and try to find a solution. If it's not 13 years, if it's not five, it's six or seven and, secondly, it's a question. There's a cash payment here. So, in five years, cash payments. That's not what anyone's talking about, in euros. I'm in order to pay off tomorrow in such a way, absolutely alone for, but please, someone should say if they can do it. Or whoever proposes and whoever decides also has responsibility for such solutions. Two things we have here, not just a deadline, we have a way of cash and if that's the article I'm talking about, Mr. Gligorić is talking about the total cash payment, etc. by 2011, it does not change that amount up to 2,000 KM so that one confusion is created, one dilemma. So here's the conclusion. I wasn't able to make an assessment, and that's why I wasn't able to give the amendment. Is it seven years, six years, because I'm not able to make an assessment and my evaluations aren't binding, because I'm not going to be here in 2011 and I'm not going to be that kind of inconclusive and responsibilities. It's the easiest thing for us to get our hands up now to vote and pass the law. So, to conclude, I will bow down to the particulars that have been brought here by Špirić, Raguž and some others, Križanović, therefore, to preserve this law, but the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers will surely tell you that on August 25th, I will raise my hand to pay off immediately. Unless a compromise solution is offered. If a compromise solution is not offered, which is acceptable to everyone and to the authorities and saves, I will raise my hand here to pay off immediately and this five-year deadline will be fully acceptable to me. I no longer have the power to defend or defend against the arguments that people make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25332	Thank you, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Potočnik, so Mr. Kunić, so Mr. Andrić. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25333	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the problem is not at all difficult and it is very simple to solve. Savings can be paid in five years of this 2.3 billion mark, if this country is reorganized in the right way. We have 6.5 billion budgets per year and you know the unorganized administration of entities, cantons, etc., with only 10% savings on it, with an organization can cover the costs of these savings and no great assessment of high mathematics is required to do so. I say this on purpose, I say this deliberately because all problems are solved if there is a good will and if we want to help each other and we save our savings and save us and the state to the citizen and the citizen of the state. If we're playing this political game and we're always getting away and we're putting our problems off, we're not going anywhere, you realize that our time is an ally if we work fast, if we do what we do, we're not going anywhere. I will vote in favour of this law for these five years, to force the state to organise itself to be such that it can cover the needs of its citizen.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25334	Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25335	Thank you, Chairman, I've said some things about this law in the past two times. I'll do it again. Certainly, I accept this law and I think that the state must treat its citizens correctly. In other words, the protection of property, as someone said, is the uncompensated right of every individual. We can't go with that rhetoric, and when things like this come up, we act completely different. We need to be more specific, more honest and more responsible to approach these problems for sure. But in the debate, I didn't hear any of the things I did last time, and I wanted to hear it. Of course, a desire cannot be fulfilled over and over again. I asked the question last time what about Markovic's loans, which were shared before the war. Is that back? Do you even know how much these loans were given and who they were given to? Have many citizens built cottages, how late I am in Banja Luka, many have built cottages based on these loans, which are divided by hand and hat. Where's that money? Why doesn't the state step on the stage and ask for that money? That's number one. Number two. Organized crime and corruption in this country, you can't find a point where there's no crime, period. What have we done here? We have control organs. We have implemented reforms of the prosecution's judiciary, in one word of the judiciary, the supervisory authorities, etc. We still have the crime to bloom. So, what have we done about it? Please, so how come so many rich men who didn't have points before the war now have fairies, planes, so I don't know what they don't have, pools, so if this country will question where they stole it from. Whose means were they when they were naked before the war? So these are very serious things for me, without such things, the international community or anyone else will help if we don't do it alone. The people don't like injustice. The people destimulate injustice when they see such things. They didn't do anything about it. Neither did the judiciary nor other supervisory authorities, control, etc. That question must be opened in this appeal. Privatization. How was the privatisation done? Are we in the RS that there will be a review of privatisation, here, there are resources, here is the enthusiasm of one, so we accept these things, fantastic thing. They're going to review the privatisation, we're going to get some funds into the budget, etc. None of that was a simple lie. We're all witnessing how privatisation was done. Organized crime was it. We all know and we all keep our mouths shut and we're all going past it. This parliament, if I were to give a final 69 mark, therefore, according to my own criteria, I would not give a negative assessment to this parliament, I would not give it, but there was no executive authority for four years to monitor this parliament. It wasn't. The Executive Authority shall use the so-called "executive Authority". The dictatorship of the majority, the dictatorship of the majority. Obviously, we did not take democratic prularism seriously, and we allowed the dictatorship of the majority to be implemented, the one who has the majority can implement what they want. The others we're in opposition, we can talk about, I don't know what. It may be such a smart thing to point to a solution, but it's not worth it, because most people who do that will, it's so-called. The dictatorship of the majority. It's not just here. It's both in entities and in counties, or cantons. So, the democratic consciousness is still with us, unfortunately still at that level. Obviously, it suits someone. We have concluded, I have already said this today, we have passed a law on budget users, or some officials, some bosses have six thousand marks of pay, imagine not to give people their salary, and these institutions make their own wages. You're on your own. So we didn't solve it. We'll get out of this Parliament. The mandate will pass without being resolved. We didn't solve it. The same thing was not passed by the entity parliaments, and there is the same situation. Unfortunately, I was in the entity government. I suggested the same thing as here. I worked for three months on the board and everything ended up being. So the essential things are not solved in this country, the essential things. Namely, these are essential questions. You can't talk about not returning foreign exchange savings to people and keeping the oil industry in the boat for the last 15 years, like a loser who's a golden coke and nobody's answering today. So where did these funds go all the time? So, finally, let me get this straight. It's all crime and corruption in this country, and we all seriously have to deal with this phenomenon in every part of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25336	Thank you very much. Mr. Filip Andrić. There are no more applications for discussion. You'll be short on your word, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25337	I thank Mr. President, before I begin to tell my colleague Kunić that we didn't even know about Markovic's loans, you see what advantages you're in. But that doesn't mean we're not about to re-valorize today and come back. However, these people should not be blackmailed and waited until the one who took the loan is returned to him by the state to repay his savings. It's hard to say anything new here, but I might try to make a summary. If there had been a little more understanding and seriousness in this matter by the Council of Ministers and other lower levels of executive power, I don't think today would have discussed this law, but would have ended the issue on 17 April when we passed the law. However, since there was no understanding then, here we are again again today, and who knows how many times we will return if we do not care today. The fact is that the Council of Ministers, along with other entity governments, has made no further effort to find additional sources from which this could be returned. The fact is that the grant funds have been spent for other purposes, and I don't know, among other things, when officials from some services have been fired, that their salaries have been paid from the grant funds, that's for every conviction. Privatisation procedure and all the donkeys. Today we're talking about the privatisation of three telecoms, the finance minister said last night that there is no more than 10% generously he gives back the old virgin savings, and I suggest we make the conclusion that it is 90%. They have both the electricity industry and the rest of the state, which can be properly damaged by these people. We also had a story about system reforms. I wanted to strongly believe that they had a basis and that they would give results. When we talked here about VAT, then half a billion people were told to run away from us in the gray economy. By introducing only the VAT system, we are controlling half a billion a year. Then what's the problem? Then what's the problem for five years? So I say, the Council of Ministers has done nothing in that sense, and I think it's a good way to force them, if in no other way, to adopt this law, even though I'm willing to think about some sort of solution, let's say, if there's still a chance of making things better, if not, let those who have failed to fix it, let's fix it now, and we can finely adopt the law and repay these people there. It's not just a deadline or a euro. I'm saying, maybe it's unfortunate that the euro went away, and I'd be happier today to take a conversion mark than the euro, while you'd make all those conversions I think you'll lose, but we have interest in talking about, but we have, no one so far, I don't think I've mentioned the verification process, which they're saving, absolutely unsatisfactory, because it's the wave of people in the third lifetime. They're being driven into cowardly bureaucratic procedures, in order to revive some... agencies and I don't know what's behind it, and by the way it costs the state, they're going to have to hire banks, to complete the verification process, if it ends as provided for in this law, they're going to have to make a deal with the banks afterwards to pay off. Therefore, there is no reason not to conclude with banks immediately a contract to conduct a complete procedure and avoid this unfortunate verification, leave there a leveling of the situation, a determination of the real situation, against which no one is normal in this room or in this country. I think it would be the things to talk about, where this law can be improved, and that we can come up with a satisfactory solution. If we keep this up, I think we're gonna do ourselves some damage. With that, if there is understanding, or willingness to further amend this law, if there is no, I suggest we support it, adopt it, and then let those who are obliged to implement it, let them seek solutions as they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25338	I thank Mr. Andrić. Before I give my word to Mr. Nikola Špirić, who once again asked for the word, we have several written suggestions here, in a way, to open up the possibility that one of the representatives of foreign savings should address this home. I think we need some time, to the soul, rationally and briefly, here's to show that here we want to hear the voice of these people, by making it a three-minute deadline and then moving on to a statement on this law, because that's something that I think we need to show by gesture was still a precedent when we were discussing those agricultural issues. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25339	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that today, at least by my assessment, is not a waste of time we discussed this proposal. What I would like to suggest, to ask the Association of Old Foreign Savings, which is, please, to preserve the dignity and dignity of this Parliament, we are discussing serious matters. I pray for patience and if they have shown too much patience in this country. I'll do it again, it's no problem to pass the law, and we have a message from the executive that they can't respect it. So, my suggestion is, I ask you to understand it and be sure that I am a friend of this project from the beginning to give a month to the Council of Ministers, if he needs a consultation with entity 71 governments and a commission to offer a new report. For you, the shift, for the old foreign currency savings that I am, is to move the deadline to be reduced and to see in what way, this is what counterpart Beriz Belkić was talking about to pay for, to determine the condition that will be mandatory for all the authorities that are coming. I beg you, I didn't want to say these days that we're not making any policy and pre-election campaigns, and my goal is to give a month to the Council of Ministers if he needs a statement with entity governments and the Commission to offer a new report. For you, the shift, for old foreign exchanges who save themselves, is a shift to cut the deadline and to see in what way, what counterpart Beriz Belkić was talking about, cash pays. To determine the condition that will be required for all authorities to come. I'm begging you, I haven't been hasty these days to plead, so we don't make politics and pre-election campaigns out of this. And my goal is for you to make a contribution to that, even though my submission is still on the Constitutional Court. So let's let the deadline for making state mathematics where I'm a friend and saddening the deadline. Don't just happen to vote, say two years, three or five, and in two months we get the answer again. That would be the most embarrassing thing to do if we were to ask for changes and extend the deadline to 11 years or to 7 or 8. So, please, this is in the interest of old foreign savings. We've had a good debate, don't say that the law falls or that the law is passed and that we get messages that it's impossible to realize what's in the law. To commit the Council of Ministers, therefore, to the conclusion that it is obvious and offers authorities and its vision of amending this law in terms of cutting payments. That's my suggestion, and I think he's the most rational in this sense. The easiest thing to do is raise your hand and vote on this. I don't think we have enough state math today to stop as responsible state people without finally finding out that we haven't made a good assessment and that we've made a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25340	Thank you very much. We have a situation here now that we have more demands from the representatives of the associations, I think that now, if you could agree and if you can agree on one thing, I don't think we can open up a public debate here about the differences in approach, this one don't get me wrong, but I think it's good for this debate and conclusion. If you have a consensus on who's going to address you, I'm standing here, if you don't, then don't go any further in opening those questions. My suggestion is, I think I'll best interpret this, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25341	Thank you. Since colleagues have proposed some other solutions, it is quite appropriate that I say something about it as a proposal. But before that, I want to say, because we were talking about the Council of Ministers, we were talking about entity governments and Brcko District that it was a guilty allegation, and I didn't want to answer, and I kept calling not to irritate my colleagues because what we got on the bench shows that Minister Ljerka Marić asked and that they called on her letter and that they sent. It was sent by the Federation Ministry, not the Federation Government. Sent by an official from the Republika Srpska government, not the Government of Republika Srpska. From the Brcko Ministry and so on. So I'm talking about this relationship, how the minister is jealous to inform and ask for support in the way she suggested she asked the question, because we have the law, and maybe people have answered that. And we don't talk about governments here. I offered the second proposal, given that Mr Belkić correctly asked the question in terms of whether he had given it in the euro. No, it's not in the euro, it's in cash but it's offered 72 alternative bonds, so to speak, that 50% in compensation and we talked about what kind of compensation that is. We needed to focus a little more on such an alternative bond offer that significantly changes things when we talk about analyses of what we're going to get at the end. Not cash, not cash, but we'll get a whole other position. But we've kind of already defined ourselves for and against, and that's why it's not good. So I would like that, and what the Deputy Minister said was a public debt, not so the Bosnia and Herzegovina Human Rights Chamber made it clear that the old foreign savings cannot be treated as public debt and explained why so. Well, it's not that we're not in a position in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to deal with such important things, we accept the reality that it's not a public debt, as someone wants to say, and it's known that the period of which foreign savings has been treated as a problem. __________(?) What do you propose to Gligorić as a proposer? I suggest that my fellow Members vote on amendments and amendments to the law. Ask for a new deadline from the Council of Ministers now, in the next month when we almost may not even be able to meet her correctly because we were completely ignored for almost four years. Asking the Council of Ministers now is not correct and I cannot be as a proposing in such a kind of confusion that something important will happen. They explained well their colleagues, especially Ljiljana Miličević, within the period left when they had the opportunity to submit amendments. Mrs. Ruža Sopta has made an amendment, he has been respected, and I suggest, if what fellow Špirić says about the deadline and it is not realistic, let us today pass this law at five years and then at the next meeting, the Council of Ministers asks, according to Article 105, six or seven years, so let them be on the move. Not that we're some secretaries of the Council of Ministers. And that's why I'm asking you to take that into account, don't ask me as a pronoun to take it back. I want you to vote on it. If there is not enough will this law will fall, but then I ask my other colleagues who will be here in Parliament to raise that question. Here, Mr. Chairman, as far as that goes, I gave up on those replicas to Mr. Džaferović because Mr. Milošević is an innocent man and Mr. Elmir Jahić because... the president of the court was and he was president of the SDA Municipal Committee and the organs, and that is why he may seem to punish me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25343	Thank you very much. Have you reached a consensus? If it is, well, I'm staying with the word, so if there's a deal. Here you go. Please, this debate has concluded that we just understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25344	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. We heard a lot from you today. We followed you a few months ago. We've seen you push for it, try to correct someone's mistakes. I think we should be grateful for that, but I can tell you another thing, what's most important here, is to restore the trust of your citizens. Believe me, I spent 45 years in the world, in Europe where the rule of law, and so on, but believe me, hundreds of thousands of our citizens today have turned their eyes on you right now. 73 In all the world, we have a website and they're following us so that we shouldn't come back today without results. As far as reconciliation is concerned, don't worry about it. We'll get your foreign savings back on our own. Our citizens have money, huge money where we keep it 1.5 to 2% in foreign banks. We want to put it back here, invest it in our country. I've got over 300,000 marks, and here I'm saying I'm not gonna ask for any stamps. But she's five years old since I filed for construction, I didn't get a building permit, they don't give it to me for foreign savings. What's this about? So there's a way if we're ready and if we want to get it back, we're going to get it back, we're not going to be ordinary citizens, and we're not asking for this poor person to pay us back our foreign exchange savings, but we want those who are suffering today to be untreated, they have no way, we're looking for anything possible, and we're looking for 100 marks to be granted to them, we've got rejections. People die, they have nothing to bury in the ground. I mean, I wouldn't owe you here, I beg you to pass this law. We will take the obligation on ourselves to make it easier and make this come back that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have no big problems. The most important thing is the trust of our citizens who say if this doesn't come back to us we'll never come back, we'll never invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and believe that we can. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25345	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. We have the following situation means, we had several suggestions to give guidance on the trail of this debate, the deadline and I am obliged to put it to the vote. It means a new report by the Commission, with the Council of Ministers, but I think it can only go to prepare for the next session. Everything else is just on that condition. I'll put that proposal on the line. Well, we'll vote, if this proposal doesn't pass, this one will vote. Well, these are the suggestions that were discussed by this Mr. Gligorić. Well, you're always the first to object if something of yours isn't put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25346	You don't understand talking from a place
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25347	Please, there's no doubt here. I am obliged to put these proposals on the plea before Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25348	...changes and additions to the law on the return of old foreign currency savings. And a dot. We've established that. Where some side-by-side proposals are now being put in, they're getting priority. I don't know about those suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25349	Let's go read. The Commission's report on the vote. We're pleading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25350	New report, Article 95(3).
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25351	Put a new commission report to the vote. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25352	Just a second, please. I will remind you of article 95 means – the debate in the House will begin with the first reading about necessity. That's what we did today, right, and we're still in the first reading, right? We did. We're done arguing. The debate on individual members will begin if the House so decides. If the House does not so decide the proposed law is considered rejected and the House may ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new sessions within 15 days. So the proposal is to request a new report from the commission. It's a 15-day deadline. And I put that proposal to the vote. So if you don't pass the proposal for a new reading, let's go to the law. Well, you'll get parliamentary intervention. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević, then Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25353	I'm just asking you, I understand what you've read. Are you looking for a negative report from the commission? You got a positive, there was no amendment, Mr. Raguž. Do you want us to write a new proposal to amend and supplement the law? What do you want from the Commission? She had one amendment, accepted it, accepted the amendments and the additions. Well, he'll make a new amendment and supplemental proposal. You don't have any new moments here on this law. This comes down to you looking for a negative report from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25354	Not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25355	You had a positive
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25356	So don't talk to me. I've given my opinion on the law of the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25357	And I said and I just want to say one thing. There was nothing here that was asked of the Commission that we didn't do. They looked at the amendment, accepted the amendment, agreed with the motionary. So we entered the first reading. We should vote on the law on first reading. I don't know what you're expecting right now. What does the College expect here, now I'm going to say like a college. What's he expecting? What are the new moments? It wasn't negative, so let's take a look at the new moments. You have a positive.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25358	Okay. We heard. There's a business possibility, Mrs. Milićević, and that's the one I said. And it doesn't matter if the report is positive or negative. There's always that possibility. Mr. Sipović, then Mr. Zorić, business interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25359	Chairman, I really need to intervene. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25361	I'm not prejudged how anyone will plead on the bill. But I'm really going down, and I'm getting a pair of ears to interpret the Rules of Procedure in a way that takes away the MP's disposal that he insists on that vote. If he is a promoter, esteemed colleague Gligorić asks for insistence, and you have the Commission's Report – you do not have the right to reduce, to interpret that he is returning to re-proceeding and seeking reports. I think it's a wrong interpretation because it's all going in a sense to deny the rights of every MP. And whether the statement will be positive or negative, I intervene as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to respect the Rules of Procedure and the right of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25362	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25363	Let me finish. Mr. Gligorić found an alternative to re-proceeding
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25364	There are people who are authorized to interpret the Rules of Procedure. You got your word. That's what Secretary Dom warned me. So there are people who are authorized to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Nobody works here by heart. Don't accuse us of something that isn't and practice here in the House and business opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25365	Can I just say something? The chairman, I am very respectful of my dear colleague, but as far as I can see, you are often taking over the role of interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25366	It's my duty. Here's what you know about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25367	Please, then let me just say, let me intervene. For the assessment or if we are going to have an authentic interpretation, then there is also a Commission constitutionally-legislative.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25368	I agree. Anything can be checked. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25369	I'm on behalf of the club looking for a break from five to ten minutes, most of all, to think about it. You can look for it in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25370	As much as you're asking, Mr. Zorić, you weren't precise. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25371	Seven minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25372	Does anyone want a break from Mr. Zorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25373	I have to say that the club's position, this is that we should make a statement about the first reading, but since there have been some other proposals, first of all, to make a statement to the legislator of this law, and all those who are not satisfied with the proposing's position or proposal can put the same law in the process and then make calculations according to it. It's the club's position, and we think it's correct to let the proposer decide, decide on the law he's proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25374	Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dam and gentlemen. Dear counterpart Zorić put the problem right and asked me as a proponent to plead with him about it. I'm saying I can't give up my proposal. I want this proposal to be voted on. I see no new reason because the Finance and Budget Commission gave a positive opinion. We have defined the agenda and we are in the first reading and I would ask you to keep that in mind, because I am the promoter and it would not be correct that there are now some reasons for this proposal to disabling itself or in some other way that the chance of any conclusion even though I appreciate and respect another conclusion, simply and because we still have one session. The Commission, what in that case would really be if we couldn't, for who knows which, perhaps objective reasons, to respect that, then you'd be in a situation that I was some, let's call maybe the hard words, the scams of these people who expect us to plead today in one of the ways. I ask my colleagues to accept the amendments and the additions, it's perfectly normal to ask, but everyone has the right to vote against these amendments and the addition of the laws. In this House there has been and there will be. We are deeply aware of how important this issue is and that in this way we can significantly improve the position of these people who have been looking for justice for many years without success, and I think we are on the way to creating a legal state and creating a new relationship between the executive government to look creatively for new sources of funding, which I am deeply convinced that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25376	Here comes Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Avdić. Everything now can only be business interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25377	Ladies and gentlemen, this is business intervention. We can't have different arches according to different laws. The Rules of Procedure must apply. When the law enters the proposing procedure, 77 can withdraw it, but as Parliament will decide on it, it must be business. So here there's a proposal that the Council of Ministers, the committee responsible, the association, now I've talked to people, within 20 days, look at all the elements and offer a new report. That new report could be an improvement in this, it could be a negation of this. We'll plead. So please, I miss the elements to plead, I'm a friend of this project. And that proposal must go to the vote. If there is a majority and it falls there's nothing more to say about the law. So it's a logical business procedure. Is someone going to vote yes or against it is quite different, so thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25378	Well, here's a painful Rules of Procedure. I don't care, I run a session and I interpret the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also think we're introducing a procedure that is absolutely not according to the Rules of Procedure or the usual procedure. We've never asked the promoter whether you accept it or not, Mr. MP. And I was a bill promoter. As soon as you introduce the law into the parliamentary procedure, your property ends on this legal project. It stops, so it ends your property over that legal project and decides on it, Dom. So the absolute MP who proposed the laws and the document is no longer available with that document. What he can't even pull anymore. That's what I asked to withdraw the law myself. So we have established a procedure that is not according to the Rules of Procedure, which is not common and which is for the first time precedent in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I beg you, so I fully ask to vote on the proposal of my fellow Špirić who has the advantage of the legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25380	Mr. Novaković and Mr. Zorić. All business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25381	He is absolutely right, Mr Avdić, when he says that the law of the moment he enters the Commission has become the law of Parliament, so is our Rules of Procedure and there is no dilemma. So it's no longer the legislator's law, and he can't even pull it out in the commission phase of the debate. And there's no dilemma. And I didn't realize here that the motionary asked neither to withdraw the law nor this one, beware here is just a dilemma of what to put first on the vote? Is it logical to put Mr. Špirić's proposal first or to put the law first, so if the law passes or doesn't pass, I don't know how to put it, it's just a dilemma. The promoter has the right to request that the bill be voted first. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure shall be determined by the College. It's a business thing. I don't want to interpret this differently, but the College has to say this is how we interpret the Rules of Procedure. I of course, my, I think that priority has a vote on the law and only then on the conclusion(?That's what I think, but I'm not the one who interprets the Rules of Procedure. You're a businessman. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25382	Mr. Zorić then sir, he's blaming Mr. Novaković for a second, please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25383	So I just wanted to say that at the agenda points when we have to plead on the commission's report, it says, let's say in point 16. And that's what happens most of the time when it's a negative report. It says right here on the agenda that it's the first reading. I don't know what I'm talking about, so why don't we just say that we can, this one vote on another reading, but let's say whether or not we will. But after the first reading. So, everything under this point that we could plead, and that's what it was, Mr. Špirić, you know very well, about Philip's conclusion at the previous session. When it came down to who you blame for it, it went through with the law. And now, if the law doesn't pass, you can suggest whatever you want. You can suggest whatever you want, however you can't, what you can't suggest. Will it pass, is that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, okay, someone else's decision. I think the agenda point is accurate, after this one can vote on the second reading conclusions, on everything this one doesn't write here, but it says here that first reading is the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25384	Well, it's in the Rules of Procedure, man. Now I'm going to read the Rules of Procedure, I'm interested in the Rules of Procedure, so here's what the Rules of Procedure says. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25385	Can I just have one more sentence? I see you're consulting this, I don't understand why you insist that the law be alive often in this House. I don't see if most people are willing to knock this law down. And let him show it to the people here. I'm ready to uphold this law and I'll support it. Someone who thought it was a five-year-old period, why he didn't intervene. It's quiet, for me, the Council of Ministers said silently, a five-year-old is fine, because it kept quiet. And we're here now, because of someone's unhappiness we're nervous about. Let's vote so whatever the result, I'll be happy, I'll respect most of it, but let your people of the association know, not that we're buying time here until the election. That doesn't make any sense. Or, let's say, maybe the Council of Ministers or the Resort Ministry doesn't have time because it's already been on the campaign for a month. Where's the money? Where's the money from these savings? I mentioned in the O.R. earlier to my colleagues whether this savings should be saved, which is from banks and from various budgets, taken and shared to the people, so we'll owe these people 14 years. Or let's say 13, we're going to cut down a year and maybe eventually we'll come to zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25386	The Rules of Procedure are on the agenda. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25387	Wrong quote and business intervention. Mr. Novaković said it doesn't matter how you vote here. It's very important for a simple reason if you vote first on the law, 79 can happen that he doesn't pass and then there's no point in sending a commission. It's got to be a new bill. The possibility of not sending a commission opens up the possibility of voting on the law. So it's important how you vote in this house. In order to honor a full member of the 95th, we already went by members. Point 3 remains, which Decidantly says Dom can ask the commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines within 15 days. Such a proposal is highlighted here, and we need to vote on this proposal. The new guidelines are in the sense that both the Savings Association and our Commission and the Council of Ministers, which should coordinate the work of all other ministries, i.e. the government, try to find a compromise solution that would be made with one amendment. If it can wait 14 years, how long have you waited there, it can wait another 15 days and nothing will harm their civil rights or anything. So I ask you to make a new report to make this home known. If people here think this law is good, that report will not pass, or will not pass the commission, they will vote on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25388	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25389	Look, it won't be the first time we've ever used this plan and used it when we have to, so here's what I'd better say not to use it. So, it's not the first time we've had this session, and now if we do, we won't make any mistakes. But the fact is that whoever suggests it would have to say what new elements they are. For me, it would be a new element if someone had now stood up here in front of the Council of Ministers and said – we are working on it, we will have a solution in 15 days. It's a new element for me. And it is not a new element that the Council of Ministers wrote that it is not, that it is unacceptable. So the new element is that the Council of Ministers stands up here and says – in 15 days you will have a gentlemen solution on the table what is the possibility. Then we can decide on Mr. Špirić's proposal. Until then, the Council of Ministers sits down and says this is unacceptable for us, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25390	Ljiljana Milićević, then Mr Križanović. Just a little patience. It's obviously important, and please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25391	You see, no matter what variant Dom has given himself up, I'll repeat it again, most of it will decide as it pleases. One, there are no new moments here. They don't exist in the sense that we don't have an amendment no one has invested or renewed the amendments. So the text of the law stands as it stands. We can't have a majority based on some of the amendments that are in the procedure, so we'll discuss them. I want to say to the public that the new moment is probably what's going to happen, if some closed session is adopted on committees to get a negative report, and next time there's a negative report here on the agenda, and that's how we're going to throw this law where it belongs in someone's opinion. It's new moments, it's instructions. I'm very interested in what instructions will look like, reading all the members here. I have absolutely no reason to see that there is someone to agree on, nor is the Council of Ministers' proposal, so that some MPs went to 80 alignments to try to find a new moment, and there were no amendments, and try to correct it. Why don't we just vote, so if, by chance, it happens to pass, or it goes as proposed, let the Council of Ministers, at the next session of the Council of Ministers, follow 105 instructions in the procedure of amending and supplementing, and let it correct the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25392	I'm only asking for patience. Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Križanović, more Špirić, and I conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25393	Thank you. When it's said there aren't any new moments, it's really hard to accept. It is simply this authority that I do not like, mildly put, that simply warns Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament and the House of Representatives with written materials, two entity governments, the Brcko District, the finance ministry and the Council of Ministers. That means if you can just so easily neutralize every honor. I don't mind. Refuse it all and simply cancel it. On the other hand, it is difficult to accept simply the thesis to speculate with the possible development of events that will now be disciplined by the Commission, that simply under pressure, the Commission will bring a negative view, etc. etc. I beg you, I mean it's not for Parliament. If there was pressure, or if someone is under pressure, make it quite clear who, in the name of whom and for whom, etc. etc. Don't mean we're still putting this relationship on two, two approaches, two points best expressed by counterpart Novaković, who is quite clear to adopt. A colleague, Novaković, has given us a condition that allows us to simply accept this proposal by fellow Špirić and we have completed today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25394	Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25395	I don't see any reason why we shouldn't apply the Rules of Procedure here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25396	What do you want to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25397	95th point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25398	And what about points 1 and 2 before? Now, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25399	I want to point that out, be careful. We have the opinion of the Commission in charge. As we know, and we cleared it up once. The Commission's opinion does well to the House, but does not oblige it. What is the new moment that points us to applying Rules of Procedure, paragraph 95, point 3. 81 discussions here have shown that no one objects to the amendment of this law. So, we are for that law change. But we have a reserve on that part that says they're due. And that's a new moment for us, and we're asking for the next 15 days to explore the possibility of an argument that's a real deadline for this country and for these citizens. I don't see any reason for us to be manifested according to this conclusion before it's obvious by the law itself. If the majority of the House is against that conclusion, of course they will vote on the bill itself. I don't see anything that's controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25400	Is there anyone on behalf of the ministry, please the Deputy Minister should speak for the Ministry. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25401	The shortest I can say is that indeed a larger group in the Ministry of Finance has joined the country's macroeconomic stability survey a year ago and we have done so together with the Sarajevo Economic Institute, the Institute of Economics in Banja Luka. And all the possibilities have been tested. I now have to point out something, that our budget practically meets fiscal needs, that social and development needs in all budgets of all levels are completely neglected. That we had made a projection of public expenditure under public administration reform by 2030, we had raised our budget burden to 50% since we found a return to savings. Nikola ŠPIRIĆ_______?) [[not understood, not turned on]] I think so. If it is, I'll answer it. I would ask, given the importance of matter, to accept this proposal from Spiric and to postpone the deadline by 15 days. We will also bring to the assembly ministers from the entity governments and Brcko District, and we will try to share with them what the position of the Parliamentary Assembly is to threaten to reduce this deadline. And as for that verification, it has to be because there are those banks, many of them don't exist, and many citizens don't have any foreign exchange books because they didn't, it's a technical problem, and you shouldn't bother at all, the verification. And this, so now it's our proposal to accept this delay, a plea to return to the commission within 15 days and then to adopt a position. Just to point out that when the Commission made this decision, too, it was not complete. The vote was, I don't know, 3, 2 or something. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25403	Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25404	I really respect the ministry gentlemen, but this really doesn't make sense if this is what it means to say that it will get these 15 days to go negatively into this law and say that this law doesn't make sense, then it really doesn't make sense to give 15 days. I thought you were looking for 15 days 82 to do the calculations and say what the deadline is, and it's not 13 years, or 15 years, and what is it, maybe if it's not really 5, it's 7. And you're going negatively to prove to us that you're going to be brought by people who are going to testify that there's no logic to change anything. There's really no point in working like this at all. And that remark - the work of the commission. The Commission had its quorum, voted as it voted. Really this way, if we're going to talk, then it doesn't make sense that people are talking to us at all to talk to us in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25405	Ms. Milićević
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25406	I welcome Mr. Kumalić and I wish he had been on the Commission. If you do, and the ministry has been called upon that six members of the 9th commission were not competent, you are wrong. Even if it were five, it was competent to decide Mr. Kumalić, and believe that everyone made decisions on his conscience and did not bring us in and who should come to convince us. And now I'm close to you doing that math with the gentlemen. They don't have to come here. If this law passes, do it and propose amendments, subscribe to the financial budget why it is 10 years or 11 and file for 25. 105. You won't be dealing with the Commission. You'll have to deal with Dom, if you convince people and we'll change these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25407	More Mr. Zorić. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25408	Here are my colleagues, I find it inappropriate for anyone in this home, whether it's from the House of Representatives or from the Council of Ministers, or from some other institution to qualify that some decisions have been made that it wasn't complete, incomplete, and probably, and now I'm the one who concludes what I want. So, Mr. Deputy Minister will ensure that it is complete and that it is a negative report for this law. And that's why I'm looking for another commission. Here's something else I can't tell from his, he's been talking for five minutes and I just realized this and this is the naked truth. And that's why I'd be begging here today to plead to whoever's in favor of getting their money back, not other people's money, but their money. Let them uphold this law. Whoever's not in favor of getting their money back, vote against it and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25409	Thank you very much. Tell Mr. Živković. I've closed the debate. What? It's business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25410	Well, about this incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25411	Let's correct the wrong quote. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25412	So it doesn't matter if that report is going to be positive or negative. It's important if we let people make another 15 days' deal, try to make a deal. That report doesn't oblige us here. He was positive, or negative. We're gonna throw him away, or we're gonna accept him, and we're gonna vote on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25413	Please, I've concluded the debate. So the College is in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure. As there are here now, a slight nuance in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretary of the House yes, so far she has interpreted in such situations and here to explain Article 95. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25414	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the House College, allow me to help you as Secretary of the House. If I'm no use, then criticize me, if I'm of use, give me support. We had a situation like this in practice that when we have a report from a competent commission consisting of two parts, I remind you, so it contains the first part, it is a report on the principles on which the law is based and the second part of the report – it is a report on the amendments adopted. And in the situation, we have had this practice to look in accordance with Article 95(3), a new report based on new guidelines set by the House. So we must, if we go to such a solution, be precise what we want to provide with a new report. We also had the following situation which, in a particular case, might be applied to adopt the law in the first reading, if the principles of the law were acceptable, and then to look for a new report after which to open that defacto would open up a new amendment phase and seek new solutions. These are our experience in practice. Everything can't be written in the Rules of Procedure, but we need to get out of this situation in an appropriate way. I made myself clear, or... I just need to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25415	Go ahead, let him say it, let him say it. I'm putting the principles of this law on the line. If, after that, we heard Secretary Dom and a new report. Okay. I've finished the debate and I'm putting the principles of this law on the line. I'm asking the MPs to prepare themselves. Vote now. The law has a general majority, no Federation entity. So there's no willingness in the College to now agree, we'll agree. You'll get Mr. Gligorić's list. 84 This concludes this item of the agenda for today, and we move to the 21st point of the agenda, that's Ad.21. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, Proposal for Representative Momčilo Novaković Let me remind you that this law is in procedure of 8.6. Short procedure. We've received a report on Constitutional and Legal 7.7. As you have seen, the Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. You will. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25417	I probably wouldn't be discussing it right now if it wasn't for last night's press release by the Election Commission, and I think the OHR was in a negative context talking about the proposal for this election law. In fact, it makes me now that I must then talk about a positive context, since indeed this law should remove something that is certainly due to the interpretation of one, a sacracial interpretation of a provision that we have as a working group, when we have made amendments and amendments to the Electoral Law. In fact, at that time, we said in the law that the central bureau, the basis for the central electoral list, would be the existing electoral list, the CIPS project and citizens' information. So that's, that's a fact. The fact is that the existing voter list is not the basis for a new central...it is not based on anything at all. Another fact I think should be given in mind is that very little time has left since the time of adoption of the law so that people who have no new ID cards come and because of the slowness of the administration, if you want to do so, and of course because of their lack of interest. I, when I spoke to the people of the Election Commission, was then told that mobile teams would be formed, so the CIPS Project Directorate and the Election Commission would form mobile teams that would come out on the ground and that would speed up the release of these documents and thus register voters. Here, August the month will be now, I haven't heard of any of those mobile teams going out in the field. The fact is that a large number of citizens remain without the right to vote, and I think that the solution to the transitional provisions only for these elections, to allow all those who were on the old polling list, so that the old voter list is indeed one of the basis for a new one, so those who were and have an identification document, the old ID card can still come out of this election. In this way, we will prevent a responsible, hard violation and one of the human rights, which is the right for people to be on the ballot. Look, we can make it possible for people not to go to the polls because they don't have an I.D. with a picture. We say we don't recognize you on the election board, you can't go to the polls. But we can't make it impossible for an 18-year-old citizen to get on the ballot list. We have no right to do so, and I am convinced that with 85 of this law, I have actually solved this problem and ultimately made it possible by some assessment that I have done, more than 100,000 voters to go to elections in all of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25418	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25419	So just when I proposed this resolution, I said that we must learn in BiH that we cannot, by lower legal acts, deny the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and the European Convention and international acts. I think my explanation is quite simple, co-existibly legal, aspetk we can find certain modes but new regulations, new laws, we can't reduce the rights that were guaranteed already.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25420	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? Mr. Filip Andrić, then Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25421	I thank Mr. Chairman, I absolutely agree with both of my predecessors and I would not like to repeat. I'm trying to recall those discussions about amendments and additions to the Electoral Law when we made a decision by passive voter registration. As far as we know, earlier whoever turned 18, of course he wasn't on the ballot, so he had to come to the commission and sign up and register there to sign him up. Passive voter registration meant he didn't have to go there anymore than it was enough to take out his ID card and automatically find himself on the polling list. It seems to me that someone has misused that provision or misread it by imposing a condition on everyone, meaning regardless of the age, whether they were on the voter's list before or not, that they have to take out their ID card to be on the voter's list. Well, that's out of my mind. People have been so far, so we've had elections through sporting discipline every two years since the war on here, and now all of a sudden there's nothing right to vote all of a sudden. Take away fundamental human right because someone couldn't, for whatever reason, take out their ID card. I mean absolutely my voice and my club for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25422	Mr. Elmir Jahić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that we've been working on amendments and additions to the Election Law and the truth for the will, so I've supported it, and today I think it's okay, so the future electoral list that's already here in the formation phase should be taken as the basis of 3 bases, which is therefore the CIPS database, the existing voter's list and citizens' information... as some kind of active registration if they're on one of the other lists, that citizens can apply. However, I would ask you to remember a little bit of data and figures as well as the database on the polling list. So, the current voter list, we have about 350,000 voters more than we've had so far. That's one thing. The second thing, in many municipalities in BiH, is that about 96% of ID cards were taken out. So almost people took out their ID cards. 86 The third thing, the good part, I don't believe it, is that there are now another 100,000 new 350, 450 thousand voters more than there were two years ago. Probably, out of these 100,000, there's a lot of those who died, so they have these old ID cards because the CIPS project automatically takes the dead people off this project, and that's why they're not here. And the fourth thing, so these stages that go who follows the electoral process, who works, who's a little more actively involved around it, so he knows that this one part of the registration is finished, and the abroad is here, that at the stage of defining the electoral list, that the preliminary ballots have already gone to the field, that they are being corrected now, and that there is really no technical possibility of doing it so that we can apply the following elections. This is about IDs. So taking out your ID is a legal obligation. And misdemeanors are responsible if they don't get their I.D. out. So, people have to take out their ID card, so that's a legal obligation and they have the right to vote accordingly. So let me remind you that in some countries, therefore, there is a difference in legislation, we had in the making of this electoral law a parallel legislation, if in some countries, if two times in a row it does not go to elections, the right is lost, the citizenship of that country is lost, etc. They've got to be normal, get these papers out. Well, there is, say, in Belgium, etc. We had this parallel legislation because we had it prepared. So it really doesn't stand, and here's what I said last time, so this is really unacceptable one proposal, inconclusive and certainly, so whoever it is, I'm not saying that maybe there's some citizen who's 18 years old, probably has it. But because of that, destroying a complete system that's certainly for a few digers better than we've had so far, and which is very important, much, much less subject to manipulation and everything that's been in the election process, so we certainly won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25424	I thank Mr Elmir Jahić. Dr. Kunić, then Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25425	Thank you, Chairman. I think this is about one very serious thing. And that Mr. Sipović is somewhere right about a good interpretation of this question. Mr. Jahić said some countries are saying. Watch out, some countries stimulate the election. So you're contradictory. This country stimulates people to go to elections and we do because of some administrative ones, I'm not saying that the duty of taking the ID card is not one civic obligation, but how are you going to get someone who's been to the last election on the list, off the list, off the list? I think it's a problem and we'll lose it if someone starts. That's for sure we're losing. There's no dilemma. Some countries give some privileges to people who go to the polls. They're entitled to some etc. And we here with an imperial norm, so we would prevent them from going to elections. I don't think that's the interest of this House or anyone. So, at first I have to admit that when Mr. Novaković presupposed this law, at first I didn't get all the sequencings this one, I understood. Later I thought a little bit, so I saw that it was 87 very serious thing, a very serious thing. Can we with the law that we bring to prevent people from going to the polls? Or who are in the past elections, where you have safe arguments, the assumption that he is a BiH citizen, so it is a notorous fact. So, you have a notorious fact that he's a citizen and you're his citizen, and he wants to get out and you're preventing him from getting his ID card so he can't go to the election. Let's say there's a passport in this country, or I don't know. He just can't make the election. I think we're getting into a very serious thing here, and if any individual shows up, challenge it before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court must make a decision in favour of that. His constitutional right, as Mr Simović said, is to vote, Sipović pardon. So, his constitutional right to vote. She has both active and passive rights. And so, there's a notorious fact that he's a citizen of this state. And then you have a situation administratively... that you can't get out. I think we're gonna lose any kind of dispute that comes up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25426	Thank you. Sir, Mr. Jahić's replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25427	Look, Mr. Kunić. So this country met with voters based on the legal solution adopted by this parliament. We have 350,000 voters more than we've ever seen before. So, we've taken a desperate step towards it. The other thing, a fundamental problem, you know very well that there have been manipulations about issuing CIPS documents, CIPS ID cards, and that it has been said that somewhere around 200,000 people who have ID cards in BiH are in fact or do not have the status of BiH citizens and cannot get citizenship from BiH or other countries and have an old ID card, so Yugoslavia or some others whether, the cards that have been issued in these premises, and now because of their unsettled status, they cannot take out the CIPS's identity cards but have been on the ballots so far, and so they could vote for these elections and, in fact, they will not get the CIPS's ID cards. And so that's the bottom line, the main problem is the manipulation to do it, the ones who had, who were issuing ID cards and we know how they were issued, so the issued ID cards were issued without these citizens having to bring in a certificate of citizenship, so I.D. So that's the point. And that human rights and that, so it has nothing to do with what I'm talking about. It is therefore the point here that the dead vote and that those who received this ID card have not been checked before and that the issue of these ID cards did not go from one place to another, so from the level of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25428	Replica, Mr. Kunić. Please stick to the time limit on the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25429	I wouldn't, it's hard to accept this finding if it were manipulation. Manipulation was in the BiH elections and thefts in the elections. You can hear everything. Do we have control mechanisms enough to carry out such thefts, etc. It's another thing now. But I speak from personal experience. So, when it was supposed to be on the list of a woman from Prijedor who's domicile, beware, a domicile woman who was born there, has citizenship, lives her whole life in Prijedor, has no CIPS card and can't be on the list. And I've had two cases like that. Then you can think of the percentage that it is. It's not negligible. I speak from personal experience.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25430	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Križanović and Mr. Novaković. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25431	I have indeed tried very carefully to listen to the arguments and arguments that go towards confirming the need to amend this law in this segment of registration, i.e. the right to vote, and I could not understand the problem in addition to my best will. I don't see at all that we're discussing, what's one normal thing. We have the CIPS ID bill, and it's said that, as far as I know, whoever has the old documents is out of date, and has to renew them. And there's still time for two months to do that. And if he won't, he doesn't have to vote, so what? I don't even see what the problem is here. That's why I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25432	Momčilo Novaković, Mr. Sipović. He's giving up. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25433	... said, I can't agree with the argument when the lower regulation threatens the law. Then I'd like to ask the advocates about this thesis here, the Mr. of my club president, if I've gone far away, if we MPs are constantly calling for constitutional rights, the Constitution, the European conventions, this, when they need something, and when they don't, then we ignore it. Please, I'm also responding to the Deputy Chairman, the Deputy Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25434	It's not on the agenda now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25435	Please, but I'm taking the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25436	Please, but I'm here to warn you. We're on the agenda, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25437	Well, they turn to the agenda point, the dot, whatever you want. Please, do you know that the High Representative has passed a law that respects the rights and by old documents if it comes to the exercise of certain rights. Do you know that there's such a law in recognising I.D. I can't accept the argument of a gentleman when he says, abuse, manipulation, counterfeiting. They've got the guilty, they've got the authorities to control it. Please, but by this argument, that the elemental human rights, guaranteed by all documents, is out of your mind. I can't accept that because I'm in that direction and I'm in the middle of a resolution. I can't be two-faced, asking respected colleagues to support the protection of human rights or the European Convention of the Constitution and, on the other hand, to vote against. That's not credible, please. In that context, I think, here's what's going to happen, here's a practical example for you. I lost the document, the C.I.P.S. I have a passport, and I have a C.I.P.S. I. card. And I, if I don't have a CIPS ID on that day, can't practically establish my electoral constitutional right to make that happen. They have ways, different ways, identification and other documents. The check, the sanctions there are also sanctions against members of the electoral commission, is just another thing that we are trying to take administrative measures to deny human rights. In this context, I cannot vote against fundamental human rights, and that is the electoral right both actively and passively. And Parliament needs to make decisions in that direction. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25438	Replica. Please, let's all work together. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25439	I thank the chairman. Let's get back to this. We passed the Electoral Law and it says what it says. Please, I know it was legal for the registration to be completed. I know the registration's still going on. He says there's no money. Well, there's no money for gas or gas. Therefore, we should respect the law in which we have prescribed that this is the measure. We advise after these elections whether there are mistakes. If there's any mistakes, then we'll bring in some other guy who sits here. But I'm not about to say it right now in principle, so let's change this and me, for free you're talking to me now, I have a passport. Passport, or passport, is this, the exit document. He's not an identification document. So, I'm not into this. Please vote. I think now is the time to vote and there is no replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25440	Mr. Živković
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25441	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that the electoral lists made on the basis of the CIPS project and the vote that will be on the basis of the CIPS project are a better solution. And the fact that we've spent a lot of time here right now talking about that little percentage that's collateral damage to this good solution where it's the biggest, is the most people who've been uninformed or for some spite or some other minor reason haven't taken out the CIPS map. As notorious as the fact that those people who have a passport should be citizens of BiH, the notorious fact is that these people have and I say, various ways that they have come to that passport. We didn't form a commission for nothing, and we gave the Ministry of Civil Affairs permission to take away passports, because it's obvious there's been a lot of abuse to get passports. So the notorious fact that someone has a passport isn't the notorious fact that he's a citizen. Could be abuse. It may be that the way he got that passport was misused. And the fact is that the ID card and the CIPS project is a better solution. Unfortunately, there's a small percentage of people who won't make the election. I believe this will be a lesson for them to take out their ID card in the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25442	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25443	I can't really
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25444	Here's to the end, all right, just a little bit please. Replica Mr. Kunić. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25445	I'd like to ask Živković, do you know what the notorical fact is right? What do you say you teach someone about these things at Parliament? Please, nice. Give you something to learn, and then you flaunt with people who know that matter. You do gynecology, leave it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25446	Replica Mr. Živković. You've all got a minute now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25447	I wasn't talking to Mr. Kunić when he mentioned the notorical fact, but about the fact that the notor fact is something that's not being discussed. I'm not a lawyer, but at least I know something about law. However, the fact is that these passports in this country have been given to people in a way that has been misused. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25448	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25449	The notorious fact is the right one that doesn't prove itself, not what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25450	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25451	What could I not accept this, what could I not accept, and that's why I proposed the law? I couldn't accept that anyone would be collateral damage to a model if they didn't have to. We were in the task force, talking about the spirit of the task force, in the task force fighting for everyone to have this, to get on the list, so we looked for different models for people who got away, so people who work abroad, so I don't know what we weren't trying to do, let's not leave anyone behind, let alone be on the central ballot. And then it happens to us that we have a few tens of thousands left. And it can't be collateral damage. So it's not collateral damage. Secondly, there's no possibility of abuse. And of course I have no reason to spread the story now, I'm sorry that the people of the Electoral Commission aren't here, so last time I said it was technically very easy to do. It's very simple. Now, every day, it gets harder and harder to do it technically, because elections are coming up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25452	It's a closed debate. We move on to a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the BiH Election Law, proposed by MP Momčilo Novaković in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. He doesn't have the general majority. The law was not accepted in the first reading. 91 We move to the 22nd agenda, that's Add 22. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of BiH Representatives Milorad Živković and Momčilo Novaković, who sent this proposal to procedure 18.05. We got the Constitutional and Legal opinion as competent, 07th of July of this year. You have seen that the draft law adopted on the Commission in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the draft law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of BiH in its first reading. Stand by. Vote now. I agree that with 23 votes for, 8 against, 1 abstentioned and enough entity majority, we have adopted the proposal for this law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of BiH in the first reading. We're moving on to a statement that we're going to another reading. I'm asking you to make a statement about that, too. Vote now. Can we agree on another reading? So we're going to another reading. The college has reached agreement. There were no amendments. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Stand by. Vote now. 23 for, nine against, two abstentions and an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the Amendment of the Law on the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of BiH, the proposal of MPs Milorad Živković and Momčilo Novaković in both readings, which adopted this law in the House of Representatives. We're going to the 23rd agenda, that's Ad.23. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Information Society Agency
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25455	Today's bill of law is one of the essential laws that this country needs. On the development plan of the BiH Information Society, the Council of Ministers has adopted several key documents. This is the BiH Information Society Development Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers back in 2004, the Council of Ministers' Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2004 and the Policy for the Development of the Inormation Society of BiH adopted by the Council of Ministers in 5.1.2005. Two key and important documents for the development of the Information Society in BiH have been adopted by the Council of Ministers. The proposal for this law that we have in front of us today was sent to the parliamentary procedure in the 6th month of 2005. Obviously, this procedure that has lasted so far has obviously happened some of the things that were meant to make this law more acceptable and that it is easier to implement within the specified sizes that are set here. Last(?) We have two documents to discuss this document. The first conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005 was that there was no story of this law afterwards, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted the initiatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport to form the Agency for the Information Society of BiH, that the draft law on the Agency for the Information Society, which was referred to by the Ministry of Communications and Transport, has a number of irregularities and failures and partially does not respect the existing constitutional and legal framework in BiH, because the Agency for the Information Society, in an indirect manner, assumes some of the competences of the entities in the fields of administration, education, health, the management of the electronic database and so on. Under the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, these transactions are in jurisdiction, not in the jurisdiction of the joint institutions, but in the jurisdiction of the entities. Secondly, one important recommendation made by the RS government is related to the CIPS project. The centre for data processing at the level of BiH or called the CIPS, as well as the post... development of the state data transmission network should not be part of the agency, says the government of the RS and also adds that the Information Society Agency should be a reference centre for the information society, so development planning, monitoring, standardisation and quality verification, resource planning, etc. and that the law, the draft law on the Agency for the Information Society, should contain a provision regarding the seat. That's what the RS government said in an act of 25.8.2005. Addressed us, most MPs also addressed the BiH Information Technology Association called BIT (?) and which brings together 50 companies in the field of information and communication technologies from all over BiH, and they say, reading and analysing the latest proposal for a law on the Information Technology Agency, we have come to the conclusion that the proposed document provides for activities that would significantly burden and slow down the operational work of the agency. We also feel invited to give suggestions and it is our view that our associations that the Information Technologies Agency should be a roof organisation that, by its action, should direct activities towards the development of the information society. These are two measurement opinions that we cannot ignore in deciding the principles of this law. So, subliming the opinion of both of these institutions, but a large number of experts in this area, I believe that this proposal by the law on the Information Society Agency, some principles have been violated, so that its adoption would create a hangover organisation that could not meet the basic condition that it created, which is the development of an economic society in BiH. Why? The basic tasks of the Information Society Agency should be primary responsibility for the implementation of the strategy and action plan for the development of the information society in BiH and its entities. I said just before when this strategy was adopted, the role of the co-celerators of the development of information and communication technologies in BiH through partnership with domestic and foreign companies, the main 93 trigger and carrier of ICT infrastructure solutions, so development for the needs of the BiH Authority, to be a central partner to international institutions in the area of development of the information society and to be a regional coordinator and promoter of information society technology in BiH. However, this bill which was returned to the ministry, I welcome the minister, has come here, and for a year we have been almost waiting for him to come back into something changed, we have not received. And so, the basic value of this is that the agency is involved in developing and coordinating the development of the BiH Information Society (?), Stability and Policy Pact initiatives and the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in BiH, so electronic administration, electronic industry, electronic infrastructure, electronic health, electronic legislation, electronic education, especially by the Council of Ministers of BiH. What this area means for BiH should not be spoken too much, but an example of Ireland should be mentioned, which has made strong economic development for a very short period of time through information-communication technologies. It only speaks in favor of how important it is for us to pass a law like this. But to burden the agency with operational affairs such as maintaining computer equipment for BiH institutions, it is burdened by a project closed by such as the CIPS which rests on various laws such as the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH, the Law on the Single Parent Number, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens, the Law on the Central Agency, and put all of this into the agency that should be a promoter of information and communication technologies, it does seem absurd and that from the operations given to the Agency, it will not be able to perform its basic function. I'm sorry the Ministry of Communications and Transport didn't hear to wait a little longer, if we've waited this long, and that this document adjusts the time it requires. So I think that the period of a year, that we've lost in vain, and there's no sense that based on what I've said, the Council of Ministers, besides not doing anything, is still pushing a proposal that means from the 6th month 2005, that he hasn't changed a single sentence, and that he's lost so much time. I believe that according to what I said, given the specificity and importance of the matter, which is involved, that in the event of such a law being passed, it would be harmful to the quality of the development of the information society in BiH and I support it, that the principles of this law should not be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25456	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? Mr. Jovanović, then Mr. Belkić, please. Well, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25457	Well, you, Mr. Chairman, said in the introduction that this law has been in the process for a long time. We're in the Transport and Communications Committee, I really thought we had five or six meetings about this law. It seems to me that even the Council of Ministers was not clear in what form this law should be passed. At the time when this law was returned to the commission, normally with a particular explanation, for a review, it remained controversial, means whether the CIPS project should be part of the Information Society Agency. It was Mr. Novaković's amendment. I appreciate what Mrs. Majkić said, but as far as I know, ma'am, you have not submitted a single amendment, unfortunately. I don't think it matters that I've submitted 10 amendments. So the rest is questionable whether, and I think it's very important, and I'd like my fellow MPs to say, to think about it. I'll say my opinion. That's what I said on the board. So, should the CIPS project be part of the Information Society Agency? Given the agency's role that the agency has the role to play for the development and promotion of the information society in BiH and that 94 is simply an open institution. The CIPS project, however, is to say, there are some data that are secret, which should be protected, which are not available, which should not be made available to the public. And because of that, it means my opinion, so I'm saying it, I repeat on the board, my opinion is that the CIPS project should not be part of the Information Society Agency. The amendment was mostly adopted on the commission and it was accepted, it is an integral part of the law. There was no Council of Ministers, he gave us different opinions. Once they say it should be, another time they say it shouldn't be. In the end, we got to be. And on that basis, so the members of the commission have voiced most of the votes, so the CIPS project should be part of the agency. I've said my opinion, and I've tried to explain it, and I'd like to, so I'd like to really, really, really, without this one, say some politics, if we all thought about whether that's what to say, good for this law. It means that the CIPS project is part of the Information Society Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25458	Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25459	Well, let me tell you the truth, I understand absolutely, and I support all the arguments that Mrs. Majkić made, about the importance of establishing the Agency, etc. So then this one, in the end, surprised me that this model, or the law, was not supported. Well, here's the scaler, but here's something I'll tell you this, that I'm even unhappy that it's being changed, etc. Some things changed, so I think some people in this area think the agency doesn't have this kind of capacity to build an information society, which is its primary goal. And let me tell you the truth, so we have this strategy that we adopted recently. I think this is the last chance this Parliament has to pass a law that will establish a structure that will start working on, we can wait another year two but then the question is, can we get there? Well, I know, you should've tabled the amendments. Here are the amendments a few have been accepted on the commission, etc. Which I think has diminished the agency's ability. But here, I will support the establishment of this agency, so let's take the first step, let's take the first step to get into this process, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25460	Thank you. Mr. Avdić, then Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25461	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to join Mr. Chairman that we should be pleased to have this law before us. Unfortunately, since February of this year, the law has been in the process and today we are deciding in the first reading of this law, which means that we are inadmissiblely late in this context of all the dilemmas that arise from the aspect of the law for me are such a character, and that they are not such an obstacle that the law cannot be passed, that there should not be a vote on the law. I am convinced that NGOs, i.e. organisations, and simply dealing with information communication technologies such as BAIK, etc. have their place in the simple strategy of developing Bosnia and Herzegovina's information society and, in this context, do not in no way, will not be simply collapsing or conditionally speaking to the opposition, or is the clashing roughly between the agency and simple NGOs. So associations dealing with both profession and science in the field of information communication technologies. 95 It is also simple to accept, which is that we are late for the development of the information society in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be late for the development of a knowledge-based society, that we have also made a policy in the development of an information society, that we have a strategy for the development of an information society and that we need this generation. I mean first, my thinking, etc. A colleague, Jovanović, who pointed out his opinion, could have strengthened the agency in the first period. He'd have the infrastructure to deal simply with this kind of development of the information society. He would have one function that he would promote as a single peak and reach in BiH that deals simply with one part of information technologies and simply apply them, etc., which means that it is to discuss, I mean, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's for and it's against so solid ones that can be advertised. So once again, I simply support and ask the really MPs to try to find a consensus that this law is passed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25462	Before Mrs. Sopta, correcting Mrs. Majkić's incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25463	That the institution, called the CIPS and who has 15 employees, has a working relationship, and there are hundreds of people working under the Treaty of Action, how do you think such an institution should raise and help the work of the information society in BiH? Please answer me that question. I'm not saying there's no need, we need it and we need it a long time ago, we needed it yesterday, but this is the kind of conjecture being buried in computer maintenance operations, the fact that one of the institutions doesn't have a printer, it's going to be more important on that day that some decision is made to develop information communication technologies. That's what I'm talking about. It is so well-conceived that it interferes with the development of the information society and not that it nurtures it and encourages it. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25464	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25465	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to warn you a little bit in a procedural way and why we've been waiting so long for this law. The law has been considered by the commission in time. It seems almost a year before and with the intention of actually passing the law and bringing the end as soon as possible. The principles of the law were adopted when we set out in the amendment phase, and I just think that one of the last amendments was because it was the last article, there was an erasure of Article 28. It seemed to me that I was contesting it, because eradicating that article was a challenge to the principles of the law. That's why we asked for a statement from the Council of Ministers. Mr. Minister of the Resort Ministry has declared himself, but we have insisted on the Council of Ministers' position and unfortunately, after so long we have recently received the Council of Ministers' position to remain on its proposal. It means that the Council of Ministers supported that original proposal, which means that Article 28 has not been deleted. I think that's the one, that's enough for me. It means that we should re-apply the law through a statement and on principles, not just amendments. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25466	Okay. That's what we've exhausted, Mr. Živković has not been reported, but here you go. No problem, no problem, here's what I'm getting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25467	Dear, it is very important in the way this law came to Parliament and the question is whether this law is in front of the Council of Ministers or the law in front of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. So in the commission, you heard from members of the commission who had all the problems in the work of the commission, to the fact that practically at the committee meetings the minister said it wasn't his bill of law, but that it was a proposal for the Council of Ministers' law and that the amendments you mentioned here might have been invested. Mr. Novković submitted the amendment and there was no longer any need for any other amendments to be made. The amendment threw out the CIPS project from the Information Society Agency and we supported the amendment. But we didn't have a majority on the commission. Such a report by the commission came to Parliament today. The amendment had a direct impact and impact on the principles of the law, which is why it could not pass. I still today, past his expert opinion, a man is still referred to that profession and I think he is greatly credited that this law was in circulation at all. We can't in this way the law that came here in the procedure here to support, so we're going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25468	Thank you very much. Replica. Mr. Bešlagić. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25469	Look, when the minister comes to the committee and discusses the law by myself, it's a law that came from the Council of Ministers. Whether the Council of Ministers made him or Minister of the Council, I'm not getting into it. Therefore, since we have a minister here, these questions are being asked here, I would ask if the minister can only say in short lines definitely what the Council of Ministers' position is. Nothing more. And I don't need it right behind that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25470	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I haven't seen Mr. Minister. Here you go. To speak, you must ask for a word, yes. Go ahead, go ahead. With pleasure. Just so you don't think I don't want to give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25471	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not repeat what was said in the previous discussion but also explained why we were very late with this law. The fact is that the Transport and Liaison Commission discussed the amendments made several times. Among these amendments was Mr. Novaković's amendment that excludes the CIPS direkcija from the Information Society Agency. Since the elimination of the amendment would have been how to put it, it was the fundamental principles of the law, which is why 97 The Ministry, although somehow behind the amendment, did not want to take responsibility for itself to say yes or not and asked for it to go to the Council of Ministers. I think that you MPs, along with these materials, have been given the position of the ministry that went to the Council of Ministers where we have stated that we have reason to accept this amendment. Even listed in one table the argument for and against which it is apparent that there are elements and that it is inside, but there are several elements to not be inside. By discussing the Council of Ministers, here I am going to tell you my personal commitment, I think it's better to have a law like this before you in general than not to have any law. And such a law can then be changed in a way, but I say again what has come to you in the voting law at the Council of Ministers, the Minister and the Ministry must support it and I officially support it. I've said my opinion and I can also give you an interest in the Ministry's opinion and we've even made a table of one in which we've cited reasons for and against. There's more reason for the CIPS to be singled out of the Agency, and yet I say it's better to have one like this than never. Here's the opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25472	I thank Mr. Secretary for his explanation. We've closed the debate. And we move on to a statement on the proposal for a law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Information Society Agency in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now. So we have the general majority, the Federation entity, we have no RS. Are we going to get a match? So we're going to the second round of pleas around this bill. Only those who are against it now vote. Stand by. Vote now. So 2/3 and more is against Republika Srpska. The law isn't passed. Moving to 24th point, that's Ad.24. Proposal for a law on the rights and duties of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in first reading, Proposer of Groups of Representatives On 23.03.2006, the bill was submitted by a group of MPs, 10 of them and more to not read now. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report – opinion on the constitutional legal basis on 13.04, is the Administrative Commission of this House. You got her report on 17th of July this year. The Commission adopted 18 amendments. The Commission has also drawn up a consolidated text of the proposal for a law with integrated amendments adopted on the Commission which you have also received. In the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by Filip Andrić – 7 amendments and Ruža Sopta 2 amendments. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Can someone run this session for a little while, I'd like to sign up for a debate. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25474	Does anyone want to talk? Give me your word then.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25475	He wants the word of the first deputy chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25476	Of course, I'm not a proposing. I'm going to say this opinion now, because I don't suggest this kind of thing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think today we are in such a situation that it is not realistic and it is not objective for this law to be adopted here in Parliament today. On the contrary, it is objective and realistic that we vote against this law and put it in a/s, because such a law on the rights of MPs simply does not correspond to the existing economic and social situation in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He has solutions in him that simply cannot withstand criticism about the latter economic social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I propose that the House reject this law, i.e. to vote against this law. And I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25477	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Who's still answering for the word? Here you go, Mrs. Miličević, then Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm wondering if we have an opinion of the Council of Ministers on this law? Do we have representatives of the ministry? I apro by that law that we had just before when we wanted our Commission to be instructed to have opinions from both government and all, do we have that now, will someone come out to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25479	I thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sipović, you have called Sipović, Mr. Sipović, to prepare Mrs. Senija Kapetanović, is that it? Here you go, Mr. Sipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25480	Here, I'd just like to say a few sentences. The chairman, or now chairman, you see that I am realistic, I always support and give you absolute support for something that is real. I am absolutely against voting on this law, because it really does not correspond to the state in which we are, and secondly, it is irrational for me to have this Parliament bring this assembly only to discuss this law when its term of office expires before the elections. I mean, first of all, it's not rational and second of all, and I don't really know what that is. On the other hand, I am the one who is called the MPs who will be in the next period and mandate to resolve the status as in all civilized countries but to be appropriate to the economic, social state of the state. Therefore, for principle reasons, since I am not a professional MP, here I am yet, the one in January of the month volunteer, I mean, I express my position and, in principle, show my colleague Džaferović, when I told him, I will always support what he has in all the resonance and legal and any aspect of it, and don't think of me differently if I make my point, freedom of opinion is a fundamental human and principled right. 99 In that principle, I express my position and I think it was irrational that this law, at this stage, was proposed to be adopted. And especially when I heard criticism in public, very negative criticism, especially before the elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25481	Thank you. Ms. Senija Kapetanović
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25482	I only because Mrs. Miličević asked whether we had the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and since I was president of the Administrative Commission who was appointed to discuss this, I can say for, this giving of the opinion of this first, whether the commission phase of this law could say that in the first, the organisation of the first debate on this law we also called on the Council, the representative of this finance minister and the legal one, so we invited everyone in charge to come and attend and we asked them to give us official opinions, the budgets that this would apply, how much this would actually bring some new burdens on the budget. But we didn't get anything. Phase, that procedure has already been highlighted and it has to be put on the agenda and therefore we do not have that opinion, here to say we do not have it, officially, so what we have today is this matter of this, the discussions on the Commission and the amendments that have come, the votes on the Commission's board of Members of the Commission, and it is Parliament's Parliament's opinion that each individual is about whether it is for this, for this decision of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25483	I thank Mrs. Kapetnović, you have a replica of her, Mrs. Ljilja Miličević, here you are, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25484	Mr. Chairman, I didn't call the President of the Commission. I only apropo of what we said when we had the Commission's positive opinion on the old foreign savings that we'd been costing someone and that someone was saying an additional burden on the budget so there was a Brcko District, both entities, the Ministry of Finance. I'm interested in the financial background, and what they're saying now, I expect Mr Špirić to say according to the Rules of Procedure, people should call these people and return to the Commission to give their opinion. I expected you as chairman in that sense to go the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25485	Just one moment. The replica has Mr. Sipović and then you, Nikola. To respect, just a short second round just for a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25486	I'll do it in one sentence only. Please, I truly appreciate here, indeed, the honourable MPs and those who are aware of the conduct of their duties as MPs and in discussions and in making a contribution of a professional MP. I know who this is and credible and this, what I said does not apply to these MPs, and I suggest that in the coming period, the status of such conscientious professionals who give, act as their constituents have given them. 100 But why did I react like this? I reacted because of those irresponsible MPs who are professionals here who I don't see in 50 or 70% of sessions at this session, at this House. And you gentlemen answer me and answer to your colleague when the president of your party for BiH, Professor Duraković, was constantly here in some things when the amendments were voted and now, as far as I can see, he's never here. Are there any sanctions? There's no excuse for such irresponsible behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25487	All right, time's up, Mr. Sipović. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25488	With all due respect, that's why I wanted to replicate my colleagues. There are very conscientious colleagues here, and I apologize to them in this context, and for those who are irresponsible, they do not deserve to resolve their status without 70% of the sessions showing up at all in Parliament. And especially, please, and I am especially a member of the Constitutional and Legislative Commission in which some MPs appear every 20 or 10 times.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25489	So he's done. Replica, and since he is Mr. Špirić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25490	And since her colleague Miličević asked for [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25491	Correction of the wrong alleged business intervention by Mrs. Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25492	My personal statement. I have no reason not to make a personal statement if it'll help her. So I needed a bill for that law to support that law. Me and in this law, I think the rights and duties of MPs should be legal because the greatest privileges are beyond legal privilege. But personally, I'm not for this kind of solution, and I'm going to vote against this law. I hope I helped my colleague Miličević to make myself clear. So, I don't need any additional mathematical solutions to this, or the Council of Ministers or anyone else, because I'm going to vote against these solutions and I think I need a good law. If I was clear and I think it would be the SNSD's position as a political party, and we weren't proposings, nor signatories of a law like this, but I thought we should discuss it and try to reach some legal framework in order to legalize the rights and obligations, and I don't think it's a privilege. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25493	Thank you. The debate, Mrs. Majkić, gave up. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Kunić and Križanović, that is order, then Mrs. Sopta,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25494	I am in favour of the law to regulate the rights and obligations of MPs and it has no doubt. About the content itself, I had the opportunity to plead on committees, and I was against it. I'll also be against it today, but I want to say this, when someone's been talking about the social 101 economic positions all the time, here's Mr. Džaferović and so on. I am in favour of trying to raise the economy ourselves and in that case MPs themselves have adequate incomes, that is, to have pensions after that, but after a certain effect in terms of raising the economy. Of course, I think we'll never have a better economy from the U.S., but we'll have the downfall we've got so far. I have the right to think about it in the end, so if I were myself it would be different, surely it wouldn't be as unfair as the SDA has been doing all these ten years. But well, you're, you've accepted that within an unfair party, as an honest man, you're driving honest people crazy. That's the most dangerous thing, this role of yours is the most dangerous thing you've ever taken on yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25495	Please, Mr. Gligorić, try really hard on the subject of the law, really. I'm really warning him here. I'm warning him. I just warned him.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25496	But you didn't warn this guy when he throws and replicates and stuff. And in the end
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25497	You opened that story, and I must warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25498	I know, but a man's been talking about the social economic situation, and they've been offering since he was 90. Well, come on, that's enough of that demagogy. And I think in this second part when Mr. Špirić spoke, she really noticed Mrs. Miličević. They always need bills, they need analysis, they need something, and in fact they know to buy time, to get away from the obligation to help these people, and that's clear as day. But why not now, he needs Mr. Špirić again, be consistent. Now you can make it clear that you are courting these citizens and the public. And you're not here because you have other discharges on the side, so why do you care about the public and the citizens? All right, be consistent. You will not and you will not. Here I won't vote for this law, sweetheart.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25499	The same replica of Mrs. Majkić, sir. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25500	At least I need to replicate Mr. Gligorić and him to me. I asked for the first law and said I needed state math because it was a serious matter, and here I said I didn't need it. I am giving the right to, Tihomir Gligorić, need this mathematics as well. So I don't need it, otherwise I'd be looking for it. Because this is about... funds, let's say five people who can enjoy rights, if the law is passed, which is not a burden on the budget, but this is about an unfavourable climate that is impossible to defend, that's the problem. The problem is we tried once, we failed. Well, for a long time, we've allowed a negative public climate to be created for this law to be passed. The law needs to be passed. And I don't need that math I can tell you right now, I don't need it, and don't ask for it on my behalf. You can vote however you want, but don't talk you need Špirić or you don't need math. I guess I'm not deaf. I can ask for that. And I'm not mad at anyone who needs it or needs it. 102 I ask that we do not communicate here personally. I'll make my point when it comes to the law. So I didn't speak to anyone, or mention anyone personally. And I think there's at least a need for me to mention both the past law and this one. If the public asks me why I'm against this law, I'll say, if she asks me why I was against it in the first law, I'll say the same thing, you don't have to be my lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25501	Gligorian replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25502	It's no problem, Mr. Špirić, what you say about math, but the problem is that you say it in a sarcastic way. And now I return to you. You're a graduate economist, you're a doctor of economic science, you're supposed to submit analysis to this House as an economist and you're never. Where's your math? But we can see, well, not because of ourselves, because of your dignity. But I see here Zlatko Lagumdžija, who's playing on computers alone, doing some analysis, making some proportions, disproportions, and you've got something. Did someone do it for him or does it alone at home or in a party? But he's offering it. I've never seen you as a doctor of economic science offer an account to this House. That's what I'm offering as a politician, a doctor of political science. Well, I don't know. We'll see. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25503	Okay, time's up, Mr. Gligorić. Replications go further, replica. ......? Nothing means Mr. Gligorić only one law out of 50 as many as Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions have. The Council of Ministers has an obligation to make a quality law with the first January. Mr. Kunić, on his question of what about the salary law, has received the answer that the law should enter 01.07. along with some international organisations working on the project not only us. So, I'd like for both legislative and judicial and... We wouldn't do any quality if we made a move in just one and moved it into the self, before the election itself. What does that mean.....so we can solve the pimp? economic status before that. It's inappropriate to send a message like this. Well to you.....because that's what I'm talking about. ...people, Mr. Zorić. Well, it's a replica, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25505	The Council of Ministers has no obligation with January 01st, no, no, but until September 30, 2005. He can write whatever he wants, the paper puts up with anything. This House has made such a conclusion that by September 30, 2005 it will be allowed into the procedure of the Payments Act. If you were a representative then, if you, this one, you must, you must follow your acts. That's the incorrect quote you said. They're already late, they're already about 300 days late.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25506	Replica Mr. Novaković, was it, you're giving up. All right, let's discuss Mr. Kunić so Mr. Križanović can get ready. So Mrs. Sopta, then Zorić, then Novaković, that's the order. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25507	Thank you, Chairman, let me tell you, and the worst law is better than illegality and arbitration decisions. So we have a situation that the Administrative Commission determines the rights and obligations of this Parliament, and I am here for the fourth year and I know. It's the worst condition it can be. So it's a very bad condition, like in other institutions, agencies, so I hear auditors, auditors have six or seven thousand marks of pay. We are talking today about the return of the funds of people who have been saving, probably painfully and so forth. Please, from this House, there should be a clear signal that we are against this law. So we don't want any privileges, no privileges that are not suitable for this country's economic situation. But also, please give messages to others and insist on the executive authority to finally come out with the law on future users. To finally raise the salaries of judges, prosecutors and so forth. If it's 100 people who deserve something special, I don't see, I teach law, I don't know how many years, I don't see reasons. If that's what the High Representative found out to be the ultimate category in this country, please, we don't have any results. We don't have the results. So, is there.....people who are isolated from the system and don't share fate, the fate of everyone else? We'll make it clear today, I won't accept it, and I'm not up to this law, even though they put something here for me, so I signed it. I'm about to edit this matter, not this way, this way. But this Parliament must tell the others, please choose to pass the law so that they can receive the salary, not leave it to someone, according to their own relationship, to some entities, to determine the salary. Well, that's not in Biafra, my people, that's not in Biafra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25508	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanović. Let's get Mrs. Sopta ready. Let's speed it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25509	I would like to say very briefly that, I will remind you, in fact, that the proposal for a law on the rights and duties of Members of Parliament has been going on for three years. And that was, in some ways, the on-call topic in the media and, by the way, that this institution, in my opinion, was the best institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina of all state institutions, unfairly experiencing that it was muddying, uncritical. And that kind of symbolizes it, and it seems to me total and this work, because this Parliament, in addition to what I consider to have worked very honestly, has shown a lot of indecisiveness. You know, we screwed up three years ago, let's try the bill, and then we get some criticism, and then we pull back, and then something goes on again, and then we pull back and eventually experience that the OHR gentlemen are giving us a lesson in how dishonest it is for all the people here. Well, I've seen it as a blow to an institution, the highest institution in one country. But you see now, of course we should have passed that law. Of course, as Parliament, we should have insisted on the adoption of a bill on the salaries of all the beneficiaries of the budget and not only of all the beneficiaries of the budget, but of all the users of the social, or state money. What about public enterprises, no one else, agencies, funds. And of course here, today we're discussing it, I'm not sure anyone's gonna raise a hand for this law today. We argue, we spend time, we place ourselves a bad styling, so everything is like a sahib.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25510	Mrs. Sopta. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25511	I thank Mr. Chairman, here from these discussions so far, indeed I will again draw the conclusion that this law is necessary. The first thing that we have in front of us today is 90% of what is regulated by the decisions and the rights that are being determined here are already being consumed. Obligations - MP but we are all regulated by decisions, or by the Commission for Financial, Commission, Administrative Commission or some other one, lower-ranked than this Parliament, the institutions that edited this. Obligations are regulated, as far as I can see, most of all by the Rules of Procedure. Activities and sanctions for activities, Mr. Sipović, are nowhere to be found. No Niko has a sanction today because he's not doing his job. And this law is trying to introduce it. About how we are presented by the media, and it is no wonder that a good part of the fellow MPs from this Parliament are just disinforming the public with their statements, either publicly, openly, without any fear on TV with a view to the camera, whether news articles that convey anything. And also misinformation by foreign factors in this country. It's a shame what we experienced yesterday to be called "we want this law to pay higher wages," and we're just determining the right to pay by this law. Are we going to give a warm meal bigger, that we want a paid apartment, that we will, that no new one is rights that we don't already consume and which we don't have. Is it time now? I think it's time right now and it's hypocritical of all those who say that now is not the time to establish these rights and that these rights are regulated by law, because it's everyone who thinks that after the election with this law, I think it's hypocritical of voters. Our voters, if we were to go public and get some space on the media to explain to them what it is that we're getting from this law, I think they would support it. But it's really, thanks to someone who's easier, someone who's harder to get to the media, which is, in particular, politicizing and using it in this pre-election campaign. Do we need the Council of Ministers' opinion? I'm also of the opinion that we don't need a council opinion, because we don't determine the height of the salary here, we determine the right to pay, the wages will be as much as money and nothing else. And that salary, and I say, needs to be regulated but by one new law, another law, it's the Law on the salaries of all institutions. And he, I hope, will be sometime. The only right that the paper in this law is the right to retire, especially the right to retire which is regulated here. And I'm asking you now, as opposed to whether it's appropriate for a state to have its representatives, when the mandate is over, on the street. It is now the fate of the representatives of this House. No right is regulated anywhere that he has the right even if he has made an agreement there, or that he can return to the institutions where he worked before. No, he's losing his right, he's on ice now, and he's looking for a position. No state allows itself, at least from what we have been able to read from what the Research Centre has prepared for us. That it puts them in a worse position than the civil service employees also says that the State Service Act regulates who has a month of working relationship in Parliament, the month, that he has the right, if the need for his work ceases, the right to 6 salaries if, from one month to 15 years. And if he's over 15 years old, he has the right to get 12 salaries paid right away and he can start working right away tomorrow, and we don't have 12 salaries with waiting and looking for a job. I believe that we, indeed, skipped ourselves, misinformed the media, allowed this Parliament, indeed, to be muddy all the time, because this law was somehow withdrawn throughout this mandate, and I will indeed support this law by hand. To all the media, whoever spoke to me, I said that I was ready to defend and explain it, but that I would also support it, for one simple 105 reason that I did not want to be hypocritical, nor to seek greater rights than really rights that are appropriate to one representative who is even civil servants, in one way as we speak to this newspaper as it is. Because we have the right to pay, people have it everywhere they work. We have the right to a warm meal that is smaller than in many institutions, i.e. businesses. We have the right to a daily which is 30 marks never mentioned by that media, which is certainly bigger in the Federal Parliament, I know 100 percent, and in the county one. We have the right to separate lives, it has everything, all businesses, it has the law on working relations defined by the right. We have the right to a paid apartment, so the paid apartment also has people who find themselves on the ground, accommodation and food can be obtained, a field supplement especially. So this is not about any rights that are greater, but I say this Parliament needs to be better at its position. We need to make us MPs, independent MPs if we're going to solve both bribes and corruption, if we're going to solve the system change and raise the system to its own level. Since the half-term, we're all starting to think less about where we're going after the term of office? My dears, which one of us is independent, which one of us was independent of any party order, any sort of group of economics, or certain companies? We're all kind of confused a little bit, or we're all a little bit addicted, who's a little bit stronger, who's a little bit lower, who's going with his throat into strawberries, I'm going to be, I'm going to get a job where I know, but someone's doing this part of the job very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25512	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić. Have Mr. Hadžić prepare, then Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25513	Like this, Mr. Džaferović, Mrs. Miličević twice, Mr. Sipović twice, Kapetanović once, Špirić once, Gligorić once, Kunić once, Križanović once, Sopta once spoke. And I'm eating and I'm saying it because the Administrative Commission has twice moved the deadline, and of these read MPs, only Mrs. Sopta had repairs to this law. So everyone thinks it should be legal, everyone thinks this law is bad, but nobody wants to read it. They heard from TV and the newspapers that this law is bad because MPs want to increase great privileges anyway. If the MPs have privileges and if they were to be threatened by this law, let's test them. Let's pass this law and see how many directors the agency will apply for elections, how many directors of public enterprises, and much lower than directors in public enterprises, apply for those privileges, and not lose anything if they are not elected, they will stay where they are. No one will. Why no law has come whose draft was prepared by the Council of Ministers in parliamentary procedure. Because the directors of agencies who have a much higher salary than two or three times the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency have established themselves. And it doesn't bother anyone. Why? Why do you think? Well, because these public companies pay the media a few commercials and they won't touch them. And we can't do that. Someone here wants something to say to the MPs. I'm an agent, here's a '96 break-up from two years ago. I never wanted anything to be understood, that's what I said at the beginning of this term. I don't want to imply that I'm going to live on something else, I want to live here on wages. I've been to almost every session, almost every agenda point I've discussed, and I've discussed this law with almost all my colleagues. And I think, in my opinion, that 90% of the MPs, intimately, for this law, are just like this. But there's something else. He's got a public voice. I don't feel that public voice in the middle where I live. People, people don't know, people think that we have rights, in the middle where I live, are more monitored by the media from the Republic of Croatia, because OBN, because BH television, we don't have a signal in it, and people are watching and 106 then they think that we have what they have in, say, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, because there was talk about this when they passed that same law. And they think, they mean that we have it. And I also mean that what all parliamentarians in Europe have, that they should have parliamentarians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone in every state in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't want to be part of Europe and I reject, I will, I will, if I were against this law, I would vote because of yesterday's press conference that someone was holding in favor of this parlament, because I don't want to be an ass. I don't want to be a piece of shit to get me, someone to kick my ass. No one's gonna watch me. Someone can leave me without bread, but I won't be shot. I can be expelled from this Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they won't. I don't allow anyone to manipulate my opinion. This law needs to be done. A man who's done two three mandates walking down the street, and he's probably getting a laugh from the public, and I've fallen off his shoes, and then they tell him that he's opened up a trade or a kiosk he's got more than he's got now, and he's, like, boasting that he's a national rep, and here's where he is. That's what's gonna happen to some of us, but thank God we're here to decide our fate. We don't want a law like this. The Commission adopted 18 amendments, with letter and number 18. So some people, four MPs, tried and wrote amendments. Some of these amendments have been accepted, some have not. A lot of amendments have been adopted which, what Mrs. Sopta says that imposes sanctions on non-legislators and the job, then they are reduced by a parliamentary pause and so, there are, there are a lot of these, and particularly the amendments are invested in reducing some of the numbers they're talking about, but that, you see, the journalists asked me earlier, and then they say why you on the Commission supported that law? I say where did you get this information? The commission was closed to the public, we were working on the commission, no one said, this anyone from the commission should report to the media that who voted. Members of the commission who won't come to the commission go public and talk about this law instead of coming and fixing it or challenging it on the commission. And then these same reporters ask me, so how are you going to vote today? Well, of course I'll support this law. Yes, nothing else, I chaired this, the Commission, when it supported this law, adopted these 18 amendments, and I will stand behind this Commission who thinks this law is good and has given the green light to go here and to fix this law with these 18 amendments. It would be a long time to talk about the rights of counsel. Mrs. Sopta listed the question of the daily and the other rights of the representatives coming from the public sector here, this one working and not guaranteed their return to jobs, this law would achieve this. No Niko has defended any fellow MPs to challenge articles in the basic law of 13 and 14 that talk about the former retirement of MPs but all other rights, all other rights advocates have now. I see nothing controversial in this law, especially because we are asked to live and share, share and legislative eat the level of our environment. We have proposed to those who, who are apriors, do not read at all what is written in there, when, when the initiative of, from fellow Morankić is encouraged to make one of these laws, when you ask some colleagues, we will make the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs, whether you are interested as a Club, as a party. No, I don't. You don't wonder what it's going to say in that law, but no, we're not for it. So it's about something else, it's about decisions, which isn't good, that decisions determine the rights, that this, that sanctions are not for the inadequacy of certain MPs that Sipović is talking about, even though this calling of a representative here that I have seen today in this Chamber, so I, I don't confirm the name spoken by my colleague Sipović, but I am about to sanction representatives who are unjustly not working in committees or plenary sessions. I think it would be a good idea if all fellow MPs voted on their consciences, this isn't coercion. I will, no matter what my colleague Jozo thinks no one will vote for this, I will vote 107 for this, and everyone will be against it. I'm gonna vote for this and I'm just gonna stay here and let all the media say I'm me, that I'm megalomaniac, that I'm anything. I'm among the younger MPs here, and I don't think I'm going to retire so early. But there are our colleagues who are 70 years old who do not have, have no status in their environment that they once served two mandates at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have to live at 150, 150 marks of retirement. We can pull the parallels, so do the others. You know, we're not gonna make miners out of agents. I'm in favour of making miners that they can live like today's MPs, and MPs are even better. And as MPs will live better, so that the economy in this country is launched, that no lobbys are created when a fellow Sopta, when a fellow Sopta suggests that, to stimulate domestic diaper production, some MPs vote against doing so by 104, let alone to vote only on the law. So, what do I think? That these representatives, not only in that case, are protecting some import lobby. Why don't we just support that domestic production is stimulated? Especially when it comes to production. This isn't about finished, here's in a specific case of diapers, which someone's going to put into some bag. This is where the diapers are made. But no, we, how we're going to have the funds for, for these, for these under the alleged signs of privilege, so if we start these another 100 productions, another 200 of those productions. That Bosnia and Herzegovina is starting to generate income, not that we're just thinking why a representative would have two thousand marks of pay, when there's no pay. It is a negative approach to all problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wonder why executives at all levels wouldn't create conditions for one who doesn't work at all, so that at first there are 300 marks, then 500 marks, and two thousand as many as there are today, and in that case the representative goes to 4 or 5 thousand, or I don't know how to determine the law that this House and the House of Peoples have been waiting for, Ljilja just corrected me for 3-4 years. Yesterday, as the Commission appointed by this House, we had an interview with candidates for the chief auditor and vice chief auditor. And they're legally paid by constitutional judges, by law. And we will not establish ourselves a law, this of our own rights, we will want each other. There's no problem, we're gallant and there's gallant everyone else, no one's going to call anyone. If we, my people, are going to take care of the others if we don't know how to determine our rights here, whether they're big, let's cut them down. When will be. I'm asking one of the candidates for the auditor, so do you still think you're doing such a revision to write that in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, wages are to be paid by law, not by decision. And then in 2003, 2004, 2005 it's probably going to be both 2006 and nobody. Home concludes one year to make a bill, nothing, up to two years, nothing again. And today my colleague Špirić says here we give the Council of Ministers 15 days because it listens to all of us, so they'll give us one simulation. It's lying to yourself. It's ambush suicide. We can't do that. I won't treat myself like that. And don't do me, let's not play lying. As a fellow understands how he wants to vote, let him not try to convince me of something, but let him not try himself, for it is not good when a man convinces himself of something that is not true. In the end, I think it would be a good idea for this law to pass, if we were to direct it to the House of Peoples, they would be the upper home, and then what fate it would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25514	Thank you. The debate, we've got, I've got a report to discuss. If it's a replica, you'll get the word. Is the replica just tell me, you have time. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25515	Really, my discussion is being followed properly. My esteemed colleague is my moral obligation to my colleague Zorić and my colleague, Sopta, to answer you. I am absolutely principled for our MPs, especially state lawmakers, to have a trend in some environments or European levels and to resolve their status. You've called me several times. I've only intervened in the sense that it hasn't, for so many years, for three years it's been followed in the media movement that it's... You're right. The hypocrisy of fellow MPs from the Demagagos Paroles has created.... and the public...... And you're right about that. And now the election situation has come, which is why I reacted. I absolutely agree to get rid of the status of those MPs who really justify this. And this, colleague Zorić, for saying that the directors of the agencies have this, and you are somewhat guilty because you name them and determine them and allow the Council of Ministers to determine their salaries so high. No, I mean indirectly, I'm not that. Thirdly, I absolutely agree with you that the status of MPs determines the idignity of these MPs within themselves, I am immediately ending because the chairman of the meeting proves this fact that this high House never, except when they were constitutional amendments, has the power to ask the Public Service to transfer certain sessions and that the dignity of this MP is being settled as in all civilized countries. So for dignity and status, sometimes it's our fault, too. And on the other hand, you're right to say that some MPs are really not interested in determining their status and pay because it's easier for them to vote for certain lobbies that, for certain laws or amendments to the law, solve their fate for the next 10 years. And this does not apply to the honourable messengers who carry out their duty to them by the citizens. And I appreciate your credibility to say I'm getting up and the public says, whatever he says, and you have arguments. The worst are those hypocrites who talk one way and work the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25516	Thank you very much. Time's up. Mr. Hadžić. Please, when they're replicas to stick to, I'm warning everyone, I'm not making a difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25517	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I am one of the signatories of this bill's proposal and I want to say a few things. I mean, I don't think we're, like, informed enough. Or advance attitudes, prejudices that very, then negatively later affect a sound decision. According to, here, 90 percent of the information so far, the decision in this House has been translated from the rights and obligations of the MPs, so it has been translated into law. And mostly the eyes sting like the right to, to say a certain retirement or early, but I don't think that might be some important problem as much as you want to go now, is the pension of a thousand circus 1,700-1,800 marks. I want to speak on the subject because I am convinced that it is not so, that in this country there is law, the basic pension law and which characterizes the highest pension, and that MPs, regardless of this law and this percentage cannot break this limit the most, and in this way we, therefore, fit into the existing economic social situation. I'm so convinced and for that reason I'm against it. So I intervened again later, I said, so you cheated on me, because the law says that the budget gap is getting better, counting that this difference between 800 and 1,700 might be going from the budget. He says no, it's not true. The budget only bloats the difference when the MP, meaning when he gets that maximum 109 pension of 800 marks and so on. And his average salary in the last 25 years wouldn't have allowed him to do that, so he's getting out of the budget. It would be even good to say for me, here for me personally, I'm saying is this, I'd like to say that these claims that I'm making here right now are that, to officially confirm, if one of the MPs has to say yes, or to say it's not like that, it's already a pension of 1,700. I'd like to clear that up here. Because if it's 1,700, that's what I said to the Commission when I was a proposing, I'm not up for that kind of retirement. I'm willing to talk about that, then the percent decreases, yes, but if this system fits this system, this maximum pensions, and so on. Then we don't have to change that. And I would like you as MPs to decide if that's the case. If that's the way it is, then I don't really see why this law wouldn't be passed. If they regulate, so basically all the rights that we're using so far, we've only just now been given the obligation to attend or be rejected by the cobwebs. I'm personally sorry that it wasn't hooked up and paid, then it was supposed to go and the sequence to attach one-third of the pay, but here's the thing, no, every law to fix it. And if indeed, this retirement where there is an early retirement in another institution, it allows at 53-55 years, I don't know what's going on here, even though we fit into this height. I'd like to really, as they say, make a detailed decision and send a clear message that that's the case. If we're afraid, these false images are made in public and we don't want to make it right, then we don't deserve to sit here and we don't deserve to say that we have... And let me say, uh, I'm convinced it means what I'm saying and the pension height, I'm gonna uphold the law. If someone claims it's different for me, let them tell me, I'll change it, if it's a pension of 1,700, I won't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25518	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Belkić. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself. Shall we go faster?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25519	Let me tell you the truth, I almost had no intention, this one to answer, but I think it's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25520	Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself. Shall we go faster?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25521	that it was good that we had patience and had this kind of debate and exchanged certain views, certain information, and in some situations we might not have known. In my opinion, there is, in fact, one previous question, the experience of MPs, the understanding of the importance of the functions of MPs both by the public and by ourselves. Where are we in this system of understanding, so in this system of importance for a country? I must admit that the average citizens of this country do not experience MPs in the way that is common in countries with traditional democracy and so on. where MPs are, in some ways, an institution. Of course they come, perhaps in one difficult way to the position of MPs and so on. and tradition is on that side and so on. 110 However, I must say that we too are not working too hard on our own, perhaps sometimes, to put ourselves in a position of misunderstanding of the importance of the work we are dealing with because people, sometimes consciously or unconsciously, explain that this is like a job for them, that it is a shame to be a professional, that it is a shame for the Malta not to be in, to be committed to Parliament and only to do this work. So I think it's very important that we have, that we try to understand the importance of this business that we do. And to be able to do that one of the reasons, one of the conditions for this is to address the conditions for working in this Parliament itself. So, we, unfortunately, have spent a four-year term, is improvements are some made, here's the hall, here's this Research Centre, here's something and space, but unfortunately we haven't even provided the conditions for people to work. Especially working with citizens, making round tables and so forth. And let us send a clear message to the public what we are actually doing. That's one thing. Another thing, I think we missed the public informing what we're receiving. To inform the public what it is that we are receiving, what our pay is, what our cobweb is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, a separate life, and so on. and explain what it is and what it is that we receive it from. So, the public knows what it's all about. I think it's wrong, that it's wrong by a special law that we ourselves, for ourselves, are governing rights. I think that we should insist on that variant, that we should insist on that variant that Zorić was talking about, that was the deadline for the Council of Ministers, May 2005, if I got it right, but unfortunately, people were dragging us, and then there was some way to expect him to at least try to get rid of it, because we're working on decision-making. Here's why, not just to establish the system and to relate the establishment. If an MP and if he is estimated to be working professionally, so he is not involved in anything else, so he has dedicated himself, and he is elected to the work of MPs, he cannot be both a lawyer and this and that if he wants to work as an MP. And if he's been doing that for 10 years or 6-7 years, he's out of context out of his ability to do his job and I don't mind thinking, in certain situations, that he can retire. But why can't you think about the members of the presidency? So why am I saying this argument that, if we had to insist on this unique law and on salaries and rights in the executive, legislative and judicial power of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then create a system that would, I say, be built on the value of functions, by the importance of work, so that the president of the country's presidency has the highest salary in this country. And that's the solution. That's how I understand it. And I'm really asking my colleagues to understand that it's not hypocritical not to accept a solution. Here's Izet is fine with this, I don't think it's right, I'm absolutely against any solution or any option making it possible for an MP to have a pension of 1,700 marks and the biggest pension, here's not the biggest pension, but the average pension, let's say 200-300 marks. It's for me believe it's unacceptable. You're interpreting it as a hypocrite now, but it's unacceptable for me, and I'm not voting for that kind of thing. And I haven't, and I haven't submitted the amendments for the simple reason that I believe in a system solution that, unfortunately, I must admit, is slowly coming to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25522	The replica of Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25523	I didn't get it at all. But I want to replicate something else for you. We're talking about two different laws here. You are channeling the Payments Act all the time that I expect it to come into this, let me pass a lot more laws, Parliament whether this or in some other assembly has passed a lot of laws where it has established the privileges of one structure of people. 111 So we have cases that a man went into retirement who had been in logistics for 3 years somewhere, worked in logistics, under 35 years of age 40, I don't know what, to him only years of age was a condition. Here is a condition of 25 years of employment and half a term of office. Is that strange? We gave people that they retired, and not only did they retire, but we provided them with pensions that do not fit in with this 700 marks that you say, but we provided them with more good severance. That's what we brought as representatives here, whether we or some other convocation. We have that not in one case but in many cases. Someone mentioned earlier that the same thing we passed in law, that the state auditor has the salary of a constitutional judge. We brought it in this one, but it's a bill of wages that I expect he'll handle and he'll reangulate, put exactly what it should be like when it comes to wages. But here are essentially rights taken over, only the assumed rights of the Labour Act. It means that every man who has a job, who does it, has the right to do it. It is about the flatulent which he is, in fact, the material cost of a representative, and every man in a working relationship has the right to a material cost if he realizes it, if it works, and it costs something that he did. So this isn't a matter of absolute privilege. I'd say there's less rights here than in power companies, than in utility companies, than, much less rights, much less rights, but nobody even mentioned it myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25524	Mrs. Sopta's time, it was a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25525	I'm saying this wasn't about numbers, and I don't need to mention them here, the pay will be what it's going to be, how much money there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25526	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković has the word because he doesn't have Mr. Avdić. Have Mr. Lozančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25527	You see, there are several ways or methods to discuss this law. It's one of the ones that we've been going to, which is that the political parties are making a statement about this law, and as soon as we're going to discuss it that way, it's already been clear. The story of the law itself and the members of the law that we are now telling each other doesn't make sense, because we know it. The others we're talking to, they also know but they don't need them. That story's too high for them. You need to find someone who's guilty in all this misery. Well, it wasn't in vain that the First Deputy High Representative kept that story yesterday. The public needs to focus on the victim, and it's a good opportunity, and we've set ourselves up well. The story of how this scandalous law is more scandalous than this law. And the uglier message the citizens couldn't get from the one they got yesterday in front of this House. I believe that such a story, such a story might be entitled to some who have less than us, or at least those who have less in their country than MPs in their country. So this story is losing its meaning. That's what I wanted to say at the end of all this. 112 So watch out I have proposed a law that allows people at the Ministry of Defense who have lost their jobs to retire at 45 years of age. We supported it here and no one said anywhere in the media that it was bad. Everyone said it was good. No one had a problem with those 45 years. Of course, I think it's a good thing that those people who are not guilty of their own fault for all sorts of reasons are out of work really, and they're a little bit retired. But it doesn't matter here, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, So I proposed a set of amendments on sanctions against Members adopted by the Commission. It's a whole set of amendments that define exactly how much money anyone loses and when they lose all their pay. Because he hasn't come to any session in a month. Believe me, no one published it anywhere, no one asked me where it came from. So here they are, here's the thing done before this session. Since we've come to terms as party, I have to say that I supported this law on the Commission because I felt it was good for this law to come here, and not to stay out there, so we can talk about it to support it if it came, and that's when it didn't come to what we're going to do now, we couldn't support it. So, I supported him coming here and make sure that we from the SDS don't set up any more than the rest of us won't set up. So someone else will have to argue once about the rights of MPs. And about our rights here. We're obviously not ready, we don't have that power, and it's believed that some others will have both the strength and the courage to finish a job that's logical. So, a job that's logical, that's mandatory. We're not gonna get the salary bill much longer because, someone said here, it's lobbys. Much stronger lobbys than we know how to do here, and we seem to know it badly, obviously do. I will, after the discussion, request a break of 15 minutes and ask that this be treated now as a request for a break, so after the discussion, of 15 minutes, where we, this one, will re-analyze all of this here today and, of course, define the way we vote on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25528	Thank you very much. I was going to suggest, on behalf of the College, that we freshen up a little bit, and my proposal is to really do the job tonight, and then expect with the right that we can take a little breath if we do this and open up the possibility, so at the end of the eighth, we finish what's left in the procedure, and I'm asking the club presidents to act in that direction, within their own parties. So we can take two breaks if we have to, but really get this job done. So we still have Mr. Lozančić from the reported, so Mr. Đedović. Please report early, so Mr. Potočnik, but I know you're short and concrete.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25529	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will be quite brief given that a lot has been said about the draft law on the rights and duties of members of the Parliamentary Assembly. I am one of the signatories to support this proposal, this one to come into parliamentary procedure to discuss it and come up with a legal solution that would help the Administrative Commission to regulate in the future the rights that are no less now than they are proposed, but many duties are less described. A new member has also been introduced to regulate retirement, this MP. I have to go back a little bit to an earlier period when we had here a request from the Monetary Fund and the Council of Ministers and towards us to come up with a change in the Constitution and we really did it expressly and it was about reducing our incomes and reducing the total incomes in the state administration about 10%. Then we reached one conclusion and made a commitment to the Council of 113 ministers, related to the Law on Payments, and we never received in the procedure of this Payments Act, so we never received this or the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of officials. And by following the situation in our environment and among the members of the Council of Europe, we are one of the few countries that does not have this law, this law does not exist. And it's a shame that some of our fellow MPs are racing to, the apriors reject every conversation and every thought that such a law might be obtained or had. I do not believe that the economic and social situation in many countries, members of the Council of Europe, is more favourable than in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the countries of the Eastern bloc they ate, so they passed these laws and they function and they are treated and they are important to all officials. That's why it's a little weird for me to, this one so easily reject the apriori one, one of this law, one law that I, like me, and I don't intend to use. I must say that I am also General of the Federation, General Colonel and that I could retire from a thousand marks and that it would not bother any of the public. I have many colleagues who are much younger who have received acts of brigade without a day's service and have a pension of a thousand marks, privileged and no one asks how and how they got, simply, not even have a pre-war internship, have some war-paid internship and in such a way have resolved their situation, have retired that they are even younger than me for 10 years and I am young for pensions and that no one has asked a question. We now have, in order to structure Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence forces, a proposal that many go at 45 years of age and 20 years of retirement and 20 years of retirement, and if we came back a little bit and thought about it, we would see that you at 45 years of age don't even have to have an internship. Or two or three years of total internships have had to spend and retire towards wartime, benefits, additional training paid and pensions received, were they, from this one, related to entities, related to the unique and collection of money and the work of pension funds. We have so far had everything regulated by the Administrative Commission, this law has been better regulated, it may be a disputed retirement but I have not seen any reason to run out here, the apriori rejects any thought that such a law could get, that this law might be something special and that MPs would use it and that it would financially burden this country's budget in the future. I think that, that the colleagues who proposed the law and I who supported them had, this reason for such a proposal, and especially regarding resolution, legal resolution in others, in other countries in the environment and this negligence of the Council of Ministers to prepare for the procedure and the Law on Salaries and the Law on Officials. We have today, we have today that members of the Bureau have much less salaries, much less salaries than certain members of the commission alone, mixed OHR and Council of Ministers advisers, where several thousand marks are available. Because today we have individuals, board members, once a month with two thousand and some marks and four thousand marks. But when we talk about MPs, then someone placed it at the beginning of their term to the media, and they just wait when the MPs start to decide. After all, we must decide both ourselves and others. If we don't, if we don't have a principle, if we don't have a draft from the Council of Ministers, someone has to try. I personally don't intend to use it. And if I use this pension I have acquired it in one country from an environment that is more favourable, much more favourable than this one, but I will vote for this law and absolutely, this one does not think about it, nor do I think we need to be something special in the public's focus because we have violated this law and what it does in some way solves only the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, does not solve state officials, but may be a guideline that in the future you get one complete law for the total state officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25530	I thank Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Đedović and we still have Mr. Potočnik and the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25531	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests, would also like to say a few sentences. I'm sorry, I'm sorry that we're continuing to practice hickeys, and here's the case of ourselves, and I'm sorry that we support such a system of work, and we're completely neglecting or pushing facts, reason, patience and arguments. After all, let's not come with advances, apriors I'm in or out. Let's talk. We've had the same situation about a much bigger problem called constitutional change, and we know that all this story has been going on. I feel like we're just sitting there and kind of warming up this kind of approach to problems. I say this not as Ibrahim Đedović, I speak as an MP. Someone's gonna be in it tomorrow, and what I'm saying is, I want for that dignity, so not for my own, personal. We've been here four years. The last row still holds meetings at the restaurant, still. What kind of citizens' receptions, what work we're talking about. This is the building of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 42 of us. We don't have anywhere to sit, we don't have anywhere to sit. That's no one's problem. The promotion was a year ago in the reading room, come in any time, there's 5-6 people. So that's our position. I wore it patiently. I meant not to say it today, not to mind it, but I do, no matter how funny it is to anyone, that an MP comes to work in the morning, that he has a place to sit, that he has a place to take people there, that we have to communicate with each other because I belong to a group of people, that everyone who comes here must really pack and come to Sarajevo. And some of those thousands and some of the dwellings of this congregation must be made available to these people. And when he's finished, he'll pack his bags and go. Who likes the menu, who doesn't like it, doesn't have to go on the list. Problem solved. But let's look at the atmosphere between us now and four years ago. Imagine if we worked here day and night these four years, met, hung out, how much further would we go into creating a total atmosphere, I'm talking about softening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm looking at this problem like that. My revolt and one of my signatories is a sign of revolt on the full ignoring of the Council of Ministers of this House this 4 years, gentlemen dear. We have a book of conclusions that has been completely ignored. We have books of audit reports where it says it is necessary to settle questions concerning costs, receipts, privileges, that I do not now list, the rights of certain categories of people year by year, year by year, from the vault to the resort and nothing to anyone. Everyone who thought it was best for him, he took care of it. I argue that in a way, I fully support myself, as Beriz Belkić said, no one can have more income in this country than members of the presidency. That's what the people chose. They're the biggest function in this country. I'm talking about a public corridor. I'm talking about what's being financed from the budget, but I need that cleaning lady to settle in that scheme, I don't underestimate anyone, but I'm talking about work, I appreciate everyone as a person, and she needs to know where she belongs for years, consistent with experience, according to this and where she's in all of this. Why is he running away from it? I'm saying that the effect of doing this, I don't know, is that I'm not speaking in my head, but I'm sure it's twice as big as what we're saying here. 115 ratings are also given, and I belong to a group of people that what's mentioned here, other than retirement, there's also that insurance that's also a question of discussion, all of us here enjoy or most of us. Two, three don't enjoy it. And we don't threaten that. But we're threatened if it's going to be called something different. So, I'm fully prepared, ready, if you need to step away from this but that we have firm guarantees from the Council of Ministers, please make it more. We have a man from the agency who says I have a salary of 4 thousand marks, which means he has a warm meal, which means he has travel expenses, which means he has all kinds of other benefits. Next, I think what it means is that, so the driver, the car, and still, the cabinet. There's another problem. Do we really want an independent MP? If we don't want to say, he's been bought for so much money, he's bought his raquel for so much money. I believe in honesty, I believe it wasn't, at least here that there aren't cases like that, but we know there's at least that kind of roll call. If we want to create conditions that the MP, not the name or the name of any, but the MP has to live on it and must in some way preserve the dignity of not moving the road tomorrow, moving the road or doing some of the lower jobs or going to the criminal, the pressure that we have to fight here for four years, and begging him for a job. So we need to systematically create that environment and that environment. We obviously have failed in this time because of this party lenientness, which was spoken of by counterpart Novaković. We're the parties to the law. We act like it's said there, and that's why we always have empty benches, so we always have full demands and anger on us. So, anger on yourself. Which is why, it's the same question for discussion. So I really signed this and supported this with the goal of dissipating, with the aim of, to get to the shape, to get the Council of Ministers to take care of it, finally. And that in this country those who are financed from the budget, they all have the same rights and same obligations, according to the work they do. About finally, this plea after these discussions, we'll see when that break is over, which I'll do and how to do. I have, as Zorić says, no matter what the whole me and the victim goes, it's not a problem for me, but let the MP as an MP be a man whose word they'll believe in because we're all the same, all the dirty, all the criminals, all of this, all of it, just depends on who's looking at who. And let's just let this one time, let's slowly start combing it out, make it clear, that we're standing tight behind our position. He's what he's gonna be. But I think the arguments are really on the side of this and that it will be able to ask the question how much. Some home will put this issue on the agenda very soon. And God forbid it's not a story about us, God forbid it's a story about people who are on Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25532	Thank you. Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25533	My colleagues and colleagues, as you know, I am one of the signatories of this proposal, that is, this law and my position is always the same from the beginning to the end, which means I will absolutely stand by this law. But now after Ibri's performance, to put it that way, it's hard to add. He said a lot. We here when we began this mandate have sworn before the flag, the anthem, that we will defend the interest and well-being of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, in practice it has not always been shown because most MPs have been and are dependent on all the leaders, from their parties, although they have come to this Parliament and voters have given them confidence in them as people and as individuals. To really go to the European Union, to really approach the European Union's standards, they have what the European Union's MP has, means consciousness before God, himself and whoever chose him. My firm view is that this is the last moment of raising or maintaining the dignity of the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the MPs to bring the parliamentary state to Europe. And that's why I'm determined to say I'm up for this law. Mr. Raguž, listen, you're talking, you're talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25534	Excuse me sir, they asked me a question I had to answer. It wasn't my intention, it was always my intention to listen to everyone with equal attention. You know that, Mr. Potočnik. And if you understood differently, I'm sorry, here it really wasn't about you. There are no more applications for discussion. Did you, uh, take a break till 8:00? Get some rest for 20 minutes, we'll get back to work. [[PAUZA]] And gentlemen, according to this record, we have a quorum, so we can decide, so the debate is over. Mr. Novaković asked for a break, if he felt the need to explain it, me, a break. (Please, good evening, yes, if you can later I have a session of Parliament, so in one two hours, don't believe it, let's try it. Let me turn this thing off. So no more discussion, the debate is closed. We move to a statement on the Bill of Rights and responsibilities of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I ask MPs to prepare for a plea. Vote now. So, the situation is pretty clear. The law did not receive the general majority in the first reading and was not accepted. Moving to agenda 25, that's Ad.25. Proposal for a law amending the BiH Administrative Tax Act. First reading, MP Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25539	In principle, as an MP and member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I support the work of the High Court Prosecutor's Council, and I believe this is on the backdrop of BiH's modern structure in the division of power between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. This report, which I have analyzed, I support it in principle and for certain activities of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, are indeed commendable. And, on the other hand, since I'm in the agenda today, I'm with Mr. Branko Perić, the president of the High Court Prosecutor's Council, so that this, in order to deprive myself of the long, wide-ranging elaborates on this report, I can professionally give some suggestions, initiatives, so I, I suggest that I don't elaborate on this by some points, that I may deliver to our professional service in writing some suggestions and items and initiatives and that they be delivered to the High Judicial Council, that we do pragmatically because it's too elaborate by each point, it would be, it would have been, it would have gone indefinitely. Well, in that direction, from pragmatism, I accept to deliver my every statement to these points. In principle, I support and will give specific suggestions, initiatives and remarks. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25540	Thank you very much. Who wants to go further on this report? Is there anything you want, Mr. Perić?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25541	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I'll spare you the broader elaborates. I don't think that's necessary. I came here just to hear your questions, your suggestions, but I think this is a good suggestion to make written submissions of suggestions, suggestions, opinions, or to organise a debate in some narrow teams with commissions, and that's how we conduct a dialogue. However, I must say, I am obliged to answer Mr. Andrić the question he asked on the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the representation of Hrvat in Canton 10, was that the question, Mr. Andrić? I got that information, so I can tell you that there are eight judges in the District Court in Livno. 5 119 Hrvar, 2 Bošnjak, 1 Srbin. In the Cantonal Court in Livn, a total of 4 judges, 2 Hrvat, 2 Bošnjak and the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Livn, a total of 5 carriers of prosecutorial functions, 2 Hrvat, 2 Srbin 1 representative of the others. So, only in Livn 9 Croats, 4 Bošnjak, 3 Srbin and 1 others. The Commission has pointed to some indifference in the report itself on page 2 and page 45. It's about rough slips and mistakes. The formulation on page 2 should also be – the existence of small structures of authorities that finance courts and prosecutors do not ensure sufficient objectivity and distance between local political realities and influence. So it refers to the problem of funding in cantons, of funding the judiciary in cantons. And, the formulation on page 45, it's also about peas. The sentence should also be read, in addition, it is possible that many courts and prosecutors did not accurately show at the end of the accounting period all the costs incurred during that 12-month accounting period. So no, it's certain there's a possibility. We couldn't determine exactly what it was about. What I would like to suggest to this high house is to pay attention, to look at two problems that the report does not indicate, which I think should be considered in this home. A jedadn problem is a strategy for resolving unresolved cases, which is currently the biggest problem of the BiH judiciary. We think that the BiH state should have such a document so that it could present the same to the Council of Europe and possibly to the European Court of Human Rights if disputes arise before that November should show that the BiH state has a strategy to solve this problem. The High Judicial Council within its jurisdiction solved the problem within its power and powers. We've asked all the presidents of the courts to make plans to solve these cases. They could make a full record of these cases by age, types of disputes and give priority to the oldest cases and establish the dynamics of solving these cases. That's what the council can do. But the pressure that comes to court exceeds the possibilities of the system and that's something that's a serious problem. It is not possible to establish an effective judicial system with such an inflow of cases to court. For example, last year, in December, 200,000 cases came to the Municipal Court in Sarajevo and therefore we have an increase in the number of pending cases by 200,000 this year. There are currently about 1 million and 300, as you saw in the report. 64% of these cases relate to claims based on the non-payment of public services and executions in these disputes. Simply, such pressure on the court is not possible to resolve and it is not possible to establish and maintain an effective system, no state could do so. And simply, it is a problem that must be solved by a broad social strategy, from changing the legislation to adopting new legislation and finding a way the court will relieve the pressure of this type of case. Also, the executive procedure exceeds the possibilities of the court and I think that both executions or at least some executions should be moved to some private agencies that would carry out enforcement by some market principles, of course with certain conditions as is the case with Slovenia and some other countries. So it would be a broader social strategy that would be the task ahead of the justice ministries, the high court and prosecutorial councils and parliaments in this country. Another problem concerns institutions, state institutions of the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office regarding the passion of the war crimes trial. That's also one problem. In parliaments, we have the ongoing issue on the agenda, simple war crimes trials are in particular public focus, and now the question is what capacity and objective capacity of the judicial system are, in particular, the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Prosecutor's Office to process these cases. Everyone promises that they will all be punished, that 120 will end everything and the objective system cannot include 12,000, how many war crimes applications are currently filed, or 5,000 as currently in the prosecution's procedure. So this must be the state, simply to say with what capacity, with which resources and with which financial resources, can support institutions in this area of criminal justice. We are simply in a situation where we have set up a system and that system should be maintained to be functional and efficient and we should not subdue this system by expanding the capacity of the BiH Court of Justice, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and to ignore all other forms of crime and to target war crimes. But this should be part of a state strategy, not just a problem with the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. We recently received a request from the Court for the reception of 11 new judges. The prosecutor's office also announces a request to increase prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This means that we must take 11 new people from the system and direct them to the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are constantly questioning the Cantonal Court and the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Sarajevo because people in the BiH Court, the BiH Prosecutor's Office are mostly recruited from the Cantonal Court and the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Sarajevo cannot possibly establish these two institutions as stable and then we have a problem with the judiciary in Canton Sarajevo. So it would be good to approach the adoption of a state strategy for... a war crimes trial and for the development of BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office institutions. What institutions, what two institutions we want, how much we want judges and prosecutors to point at these institutions, what we really want and what we can plan in the long term when it comes to these two institutions. They are really important, they are really dealing with the most serious form of crime, but we simply have to have a sustainable system and I think that question deserves to be discussed in this House. Otherwise, the judicial system as can be seen from the report seems well projected and as it was established with 30% less judges and prosecutors, it can solve the inflow. In RS, for example. The inflow has been resolved and 4% of the cases left behind. The Federation also said 4% of the old cases if the Court of Justice is excluded in Sarajevo, which received 34% more inflows this year compared to 2004, there are simply serious problems with this court precisely because of this problem of the case relating to non-payment of municipal services. This year will probably give the right and best picture of the system because last year the system was unfulfilled with about 50 positions. The system was fully established at the end of last year, so this year the institutions operate mainly with full capacity. The exception is the courts where there are always about 10 positions that are not filled for these or those reasons, whether because judges resign or because they are, we have several positions that no one appears and we keep them open because of the establishment of an ethnic balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25542	I thank Mr. Perić. I think this was useful information. I agree, since we have concluded the debate, I propose that we conclude that the Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of the Council for 2005 is given to this conclusion, to deliver the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to the Council and also, this part, which is through written observations, proposals and conclusions that individual representatives have, together with the opinion of the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee, to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Thank you very much. 121 We move to the 28th agenda, that's Ad.28. Report on the implementation of the Budget [[Common discussion]] So we should vote to take note. Please prepare. So we're pleading on this proposal for a conclusion that I've just read. Okay. Please vote now. With 26 votes to, without votes against, two abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, we accepted this proposal as a conclusion. Thank you very much. Moving to the 28th point, that's Ad.28. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2005
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25551	I'd be more inclined to say this word is, to turn into a recommendation, of course, if Mr. Andrić agrees? Well, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25552	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Sipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25553	Well, I think it is acceptable for this situation for a respected colleague to conclude, because we are the legislative authority that we require the executive authority. Right? And when it's recommended, you know, they ignore it. Well, in that context, I'm here to preserve our dignity and support absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25554	Thank you. Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25555	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I understand the intensity of the proposal for this conclusion but I am afraid that this conclusion, i.e. the proposal for this conclusion, is not in colluding with the Law on the State Service of the BiH institutions and I do not think this House has the right to seek suspension of the application of any law at the time of its term of office and is awaiting the establishment of a new home or new authority. The BiH institutions must therefore function and the Council of Ministers, ministries must carry out jobs, of course until the election of others. That's why they need workers and the reason Mr. Andrić listed in his explanation this morning when he proposed this conclusion, I don't think it just stands. Even if it stands, we don't have the right to do this, but it doesn't stand, because the reception of officials and tenants is being conducted by the State Agency for the State Service, which sets up public competitions, 126 competitions however you like, people compete there, take exams, and those who are the most qualified at work go. For this reason, in order not to further explain, I cannot support the proposal of this conclusion, nor is it in any form recommended, because this is simply not necessary. The institutions must function regardless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25556	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25557	I wanted to say something in terms of what Džaferović said. I give up. There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-07-25-0.u25558	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to plead. Vote now. So he's got a general majority, no entity. Please, I haven't concluded the House session and I'm only asking for a second. I think it'll be useful. First, I'd like to thank everyone for keeping this pace today. I think we've decided well to finish this session. The next session will be between 25.8 and 30. by then, I ask the Presidents of the Commission to ensure the preparation for the next session, all that is in the procedure and what is important for this home. I close at 21:00 hours, the 83rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
