ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5550	Dear gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, respected representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 54th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session. Of which from the order of the Bosniak people 3, from the order of the Serb people 5 and from the order of the Croatian people 5. Mr. Hasan Čengić and Osman Brka justified the absence. For the 54th session proposed the following agenda: 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record from the 53rd session of the House of Peoples 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an attempt to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act, BiH, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and their destruction, 5. Request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure – (proposers: Halid Genjac, Ilija Filipović and Boško Šiljegović), 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 “ What Is Jehovah’s Word, ” 10 / 22 Proposal for a law on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' 2006 budget (first reading), 9. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2005, 10. Report from Bosnia and Herzegovina's Financial Audit Office on the audit carried out for 2004, It is 48 budget users, 48 institutions, 11. Appointment of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, 2 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Romania on the reading of citizens and foreigners, 14. Adherence to the ratification of the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers and the Government of Japan, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of the rights of victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the HVO and members of their families, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank, 17. Giving consent to ratification of the UN Anti-Corruption Convention, 18. Giving consent to ratification of the Cybercrime Convention, 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Additional Protocol on Cybercrime in connection with the punishment of acts of racist and extremist, and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems, 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Development Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the development loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. Any changes and additions to the agenda? So no one's answering for a word. Please, this point, this session today, we will have until the 21st point of the agenda, excuse me to the 12th point of the agenda, and from the 12th point, since the Commission has not finished its work and we have no reports regarding these agreements, we will do a session interruption and its continuation will be sometime when this commission is done. Thank you. Here's enough to let you know. So this session will not be completed today, it will continue once the Commission has completed its work. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5551	I welcome all colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, all present. I think we should just put a little more clarification, so this was the scheduled agenda. However, since it did not happen as planned to end the work of the competent commission, it is the Commission for the Foreign Trade Policy of this home, then we have concluded as here suggested Mr Pamuk and another addition alone. So, within 7 days, that this is the conclusion that we need to maintain the continuation of the session of the competent commission and the continuation of our session. So now we're not taking this forever. I think this is okay and correct and that we can do it, because there are important agreements here and there, etc. and that it should not be delayed indefinitely. Here, that is the addition of this conclusion, or the addition of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5552	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Djoco. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5553	I'd just along with this proposal by Mr. Jukić if it weren't for a good word, but I'd be a little more specific. Continuing the House, the House sessions when the Commission is finished and when all of us delegates get officially from the Commission that the job is finished. If it didn't happen to us like this today that we have it on the agenda, the Commission has to finish, it's not done having our Commission session again today, and the next day we're sitting at home, so let's get ready and the Commission isn't done again. Don't let these things happen to us. So after the Commission's work is completed, and when all the delegates get official material that the Commission has finished the job and that we have a report from the Commission on all these proposals for ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5554	Thank you very much. Mr. Đoko, please, I want to make one more thing clear. This interruption of the Commission's work was due to a death in the family. These are not some complications, but simply the case, because one member of the Commission died a member of the family. He had to go to the denase and it happened that we lost the quorum. The Commission has not continued its work. However, she has an obligation to finish this part of the job and I hope to do so within the next seven days. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5555	Hello, everyone who's following our work. So, I'd like to correct just one little inaccuracies that you said in relation to the agenda that we're going to do today. I have the impression that the College, so we have been informed by Mr Jukić, a member of the College, has agreed to perform the first 10 points of the agenda today, not the first 11. The 11th item of the agenda goes into the relevance of the Commission which has not finished its work and has not delivered us a report on its work, so I would ask that we know exactly what we are talking about and how we are going to work today. So the first 10 points of the proposed agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5556	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. I owe you one explanation. I transferred the point 21 that's in that agenda, so I did, because she has no reason to wait for this committee, so I put it on, suggested it as the 11th point of the agenda, and it has nothing to do with this commission. I hope it's reasonable and I thought I wouldn't make any mistake and I think it's logical. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well. Did Rose want anything? Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5557	If we're going to be principled, then point nine was on this committee today, so maybe she could, too. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5558	Okay, we're not going to discuss point 9. Pass. Thank you very much. Thank you. Here, so we've adopted the agenda. We're taking this point 9 out of it and we're going to add to this agenda this 21 and we're going to have instead of a nine, we're going to add this 21 and we're going to have 10 again. You're right. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Reverend. Please continue. Let's go with this first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. The questions of delegates and delegates were answered by Mr. Anto Spajić and Mr. Osman Brka and Branko Zrno. Are delegates satisfied with the answers? brko'll leave the moustache for the next session, because he's not here today. Here you go, Spajić. Are you satisfied with the answer? Mr. Brano Zrno.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5559	The answer is... what it is. Received 27.1. on table adopted 31.1. This is a fake, and there's nothing to add and take away. However, the gap between these two invoices is five days apart. I need to wait in this house to transfer from one mailbox to another invitation for five days, then I'm satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5560	Thank you, Mr. Zno. I didn't understand this sarcasm. Are you satisfied or not real?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5561	I'm satisfied with the answer, but I'm not satisfied with what's happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5562	So Mr. Branko Zrno is unhappy with the state of the area. He's happy with the answer. So, any new delegate questions? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5563	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow envoys, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished 5 guests, representatives of the international community and means of public communication, I welcome you all together, and I want to use this opportunity, ask two sets of questions
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5564	Two sets of questions? That's four questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5565	Of course, the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is even closer to the address. First question – Is the constitution legally implemented and is the Secretariat of the High, Judicial and Prosecutorial Councils of Bosnia and Herzegovina legally functioning? Second – Does the Secretariat of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina have a regulation on the internal structure, in accordance with 16. The law? If there is a rule that has passed the legal adoption procedure, i.e. Is it also when it came to the Council of Ministers and has an opinion been delivered from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is it other than when it is given consent to that rule by the Council of Ministers of BiH? Third question – Are the director and civil servants in the secretariat of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH named in accordance with the Law on State Service in BiH institutions and the IA Regulation in accordance with Article 15(1), (2) and (3) and Article 91(4)? The law? Fourth – Has the Agency for the State Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina carried out an audit of the initial staff in the manner prescribed in Article 91(4), if so, and are there any documentation on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5566	We heard the question. I hope so. There are people here from this ministry. They'll answer that. I hope so. Do we have any further delegate questions? I don't see anyone answering? Moving to the second item of the agenda Ad.1. Do we have any objections, or does anyone report to the record for the 53rd session of the House of Peoples? I'll ask you gentlemen, since this device isn't working, if it won't be difficult for you to vote manually on the charts in an old way. Any objections to the record, or I can see there isn't. We're going to the adoption of the minutes. Please, who's for the record? Here we go. So we unanimously adopted the record. Thank you, Ružo. Here's the good time. We're fine. The power's up. 6 Third item of the agenda A.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Consumer Protection Act of BiH you received a report from the Joint Commission. The Commission adopted two amendments, which became an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives adopted the report. In accordance with Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. Please, who's for the report? Vote now. So unanimous. We fixed it, I apologize in the meantime we fixed this, these monitors and this whole thing so it could go. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and Their Extermination You have received a report from the Joint Commission. Please vote. Who's for the report? Now. So we unanimously accepted this report. The fifth item of the agenda is Ad.5. Request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure – (proposers: Halid Genjac, Ilija Filipović and Boško Šiljegović) There is a debate on whether the law will be considered by a shortened procedure. Please. Do the reporters have anything to say, pronouncing pardo? They don't. If we are to adopt this law, we will consider it by a brief procedure. Please vote now. Let's vote now. A total of 11 for and 1. So we've adopted an examination of the law under Article 99. Rules of Procedure. 7 The sixth point is Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure shall be held to discuss whether the law will be adopted under a shortened approach. Please, do we have one. The House of Representatives passed the request. Do we have a debate? We don't. Thank you. Vote now. Thank you very much. There's one mistake here.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5567	We don't have to do it again. I voted yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5568	So we unanimously adopted this, and 12 means yes. The seventh item of the agenda Ad.7. Proposal for a budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006 (first reading) You've received a budget, as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission has adopted 9 amendments that have become an integral part of the budget. The House of Representatives adopted the budget in both the first and second readings with 8 amendments. This is the first reading of the Budget Proposal. The first is to break up the necessity and principles on which the budget is based. Is anyone picking up? Thank you very much. He's not answering. Are you taking your word for it? Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5569	So general discussion, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5570	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5571	It's a general debate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5572	General debate. First reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5573	Is there an proposer before me? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5574	There isn't. This is just about necessity, about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5575	I want to discuss the principles, but I'm giving priority to the proposer. It's his turn to bring us into trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5576	And if the promoter thinks he should do it, then he needs to pick up and say I want to discuss it first, I'm giving her my word right now. Madam Minister, are you in the mood? If you're not, don't. If it is a buyrum.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5577	You've had a lot of talk. I welcome you all and I really thought the principles would begin, and then the debate begins. But here's what it means, because it's about principles, we've proposed a budget as the Ministry of Finance, and he's been through the Council of Ministers in the process, and actually the proposer of this budget is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so on these acts that are here, which you see made. So on 20.12., the Bureau accepted the budget and referred it to Parliament. Meanwhile, the budget passed the House of Representatives and was adopted at this amount of 954,599.220,00 KM as a balance means equal income and expenditure. In the reasons provided under this law, it is explained on the basis of which the laws are written, on the basis of which the budget is proposed and what is really important is what this budget should provide. And that's the consistency of the total volume of expenditure with the real potential revenue. Maximising the degree of efficiency, transparency and accountability in planning budget spending and locating responsibilities for irrational spending and deviations from the planned proportions between revenue and expenditure in budgets. For the budget when it starts, working on it is very important to determine the amount of income. We determine the amount of revenue for the state budget in two ways. In the part where we talk about joint revenues with the rest of the state, entities and Brcko District, we distribute these indirect taxes, we did so in 2005 in a way that we agreed to assign 566 million KM to the State from the Executive Office for indirect taxation for administrative functions in which the military is involved. The difference in revenue in the budget means that in the structure of this ongoing support... revenue from the surpluses, and revenue for the implementation of the CIPS project and revenue from the Central Bank, which should be total of 666 million 490 000 and this difference of expenditure relating to the amount of 288 million 109 and 220, refers to the financing of external debt, which of these assets in joint funds from the management account is referred to as individual, monthly for the service of external debt. According to individual categories, there is a aggregate budget of expenditure by... categories explained in a way that specific current expenditures, a specific purpose programme in relation to the 2005 budget, and it is seen here that there have been significant increases in items, gross wages, fees and then other types of costs because it means when the budget started to be planned we had about 8 000 employees somewhere that this budget should be respected in this amount and the employment dynamics of the table attached, the situation, because at the end of the year we will have about 22 thousand employees, or we have now as of 1 January, but we will have 22 thousand employees with unique salaries, in the meantime after this transition of the army that passed at the country level. Individual users listed in Article 3 show that they are 57. We have a number of new institutions that have been established and which are shown here in the budget, which are also users such as the Police Directorate which is not actually on permanent staff but is shown in this amount which will be spent as a special purpose programme this year, apro for this police reform. Individual users are also shown in a way through the 2005 and 2006 budget with increases, without the number of employees shown in a specific table because the budget starts to be made in the sixth month, so now it means by execution of 6 months, there is one number of employees until the end being, it is known now how many employees there are each month, but it is different and therefore does not coordinate in these categories but here in a special table that is attached to this, I do not know. Meanwhile, we wrote and began negotiations with Europe. Since at the time when the budget worked, we still haven't been determined after how we're going to do it organisationally. We, apart from the funds put in place for these purposes in the Directorate of European Integration and the MIP, have set the reservation item and the amount to join the reservation for negotiations with Evropa is called. This will be under a specific programme set out by the Council of Ministers to be spent, i.e. for what types of meetings and negotiations to be held. In the reserve we left behind, there were funds for old liabilities, capital investments and for new institutions which are very important because during this year a number of new institutions are expected, such as this information society agency or some others that are currently passed by law, and then after these laws they would actually become beneficiaries of the budget. As for the service of external debt, it is, therefore, planned individually per month, a particular part of the budget talks about it and as such it also deals with entities. So they've made the calculation...what arrangements are made and then it's being made to know that every year we've had some savings on that basis because we've had some benefits in the course of 2005 and we're actually going to see how, what happened and how it was going on with the 2005 budget. This is an execution, and in the meantime, as it is not in use, we are financed by a provisional decision, this by three months and a portion of the funds belonging to the state, according to the last budget and we get this payment according to the Interim Financing Decision in three months. Here's a global introductory word, and if there are any specific questions for individual users, or incomes, whatever you want, here's what we can do later.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5578	I thank the minister. If Limov's not clear, then go ahead. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5579	It's important that most of it is clear. I will therefore still take advantage of the occasion that it is certainly easier to speak after these opening words of Ms. Minister and will include here in the principle debate on this document, which is otherwise the most important document for each modern state, whether it is the beginning of the year. It is evident from the words of the distinguished minister that a long time ago the activity of this budget projection has begun, and therefore certain items are not specified in the way that they would probably be specified today, and above all is thought of the part that refers to the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina’s happiness has started with a process of negotiation for which the process certainly needs the proper means and I realized that things have been put in a flexible way in a way that we will not be praised by the means to which these negotiations are being made, and that is what I am certainly satisfied with. It is evident that our state budget this year received billions of converting marks, which is still slightly less than an entity but is more than each canton individually and almost four times more than the Brcko District has. Why am I saying these numbers? So I'm talking for the simple reason why it's obvious and the minister said that because of certain reform processes that we're going into, and above all, that's what the defence reform is all about, we've come into a situation where at the state level we're installing appropriate funds for these purposes. Looking at last year's budget, which was of an estimated 581 million converting marks and this year's 954 million, it is apparent to be a 64% increase. That trend of increase, I hope it will continue, whether, and in the next period. The structure of the budget shows that the total expenditure for the financing needs of BiH institutions is close to 666.5 million KM and slightly more than 288 million is intended for the service of external debt. If we should qualify this budget as soon as possible, the question is how can we evaluate it. Is it sufficiently developmental and how much a social component is embedded in it? If we look at it in these categories, it would be very difficult, at least as far as I'm concerned, he could get a passing grade, because I don't think it's sufficiently developmental and not sufficiently supplied with social components. This budget was still said I'd survive. It seems to be the fate of this phase in the development of our society. So obviously, we're still going to have to reach out for new borrowings, new credit arrangements, and it's evident that we really need to think well of the fact that we have, for example, 5 to 7 billion dollars per year. Some say more than 7 billion for the past year. And that certainly isn't a good starting position. I do not want to compare us with any other country, but it is evident that these are figures that must in principle define us to approach both budgets and other issues in a far more responsible and different way. I would reformically say a way in all segments, so not only do we go to reforms where others show us that we have to go in order to achieve our goal, but also to go to economic and other segments in the relevant reform processes, and also in the social area, and we see in particular how much we have expressed demands and in the past days from one part of the country regarding the rights of a particular category of our residents, so Bosnia and Herzegovina residents. And it is evident that there will have to be appropriate reform procedures. Of course, in general, somehow when we hold a budget debate, we pay more attention to distribution than to what the income side says, and generally the relevant entities try to get the most favourable place in the budget itself. 11 I will taxively list several principled remarks, or if you want solutions that are personally unacceptable to me, they are possible to read through these figures. The first increase in the budget for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency amounting to 900 thousand KM, bearing in mind our debate on the audit reports and today we will talk about it, I think there are appropriate reserves here, and a little later, when we are, when this item of the agenda is more specific, I will talk about it. Secondly, I find it unacceptable to increase by as much as two million current reserves. That's a huge increase, because we know last year it was $3 million. A third increase of 35% of the funds in the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Directorate, this administration usually has a particularly privileged position in Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably there is nothing else, its word is more important than our representatives, rather than the Council of Ministers, Governments, etc. The fourth reduction by a quarter of the funds allocated to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the VTO, so last year there were 200 thousand, this year it was reduced by a quarter and I don't think it's a good message. Then the projected niche, zero that you want KM to develop domestic production and stimulation, fortunately the Commission has accepted one amendment that this is in several repairs. So the symbolic 180 thousand KM for Corridor Vc, i.e. for consulting services, is as precise as the budget relating to this highway and, in my opinion, I asked the Minister on the committee yesterday to give me an argument for and against in terms of which the 21 million 884 thousand KM to be obtained from the jiisem of the operator was placed in that annex and not incorporated into the budget itself. I personally consider this to be an integral part of the budget and not only transparency but also the possibility of reviewing and other pains of supervision by this Parliament, or the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, in terms of rationality of spending these funds. I hope that this is just the beginning and that, that this item should be installed in this way in the budget with all the funds allocated for this year with the hope that it will rise dramatically in the coming years and that the funds for these purposes will therefore not be so precise, but as Corridor Vc and all of this clearly be in the budget in an appropriate manner represented. And the seventh thing that, which I think is not good at all, and if you take the results of the audits for each institution, the inevitable recommendation of the revision is just the information. It's supposed to be zero with us. Nothing for this year. So that is, unlike the previous year when we had certain means for a project to inform society now what is zero, it is really one principle that cannot satisfy me. Of course, it is possible to find several other elements to which it is difficult to agree. Here I will remain on the tax-listing list of these elements and I personally think that it took a little more understanding and will with little resources to find a solution and I would find everything that zero really fixed, even with a little bit of these funds, but that remains a budget item because next year if we do not have a solution for this project this year, it will be harder to convince us that it should be installed as a budget item. Here, so it's a few of my principled remarks, a few elements that I really consider to be the kind of means that we've had with little understanding could have found an appropriate solution. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5580	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Is anyone else picking up? Thank you, no one's answering. Here you go. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5581	So here's before the debate on certain articles, or the amendment in the other part, I'd like to underline just one thing here, about this extra one. So here on the third side of these introductory notes, the proposer made it clear that the richness of the billing of salaries in the legislative, judicial, executive government at BiH level makes it difficult to manage the expenditure on salaries and compensations, so it is urgent to approach the single solution to this problem in the construction of the Law on Payments in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. I just asked this question a month, a month and a half ago, when the Council of Ministers will propose this law. And I absolutely agree with this claim, and when we look at the structure of expenditure, then we see that very significant funds, a very significant percentage of the total budget is used for wages, and this area we have absolutely unregulated, so the conclusion is that this is necessary as soon as possible by law. Here I am using the opportunity to say this in the presence of the Minister of Finance and Treasury, expecting, of course, that what has just finished work on this important task will soon end and offer to us in Parliament so that we can adopt this important law. Here's when I went out to say something about the budget, of course I can agree that what the budget inherited, so it's balanced, that the income cost side is balanced, which is logical, etc. However, they also cannot be taken from the impression without being asked as a single item – the service of external debt has been significantly increased compared to last year. Perhaps this is an interesting item that can be seen and commented actually why it is an increase, where it is new responsibilities, whether this increase raises the question of the realization of some other projects etc. and otherwise accepted by the General Policy of the Council of Ministers and other levels of government, and notably by the Council of Ministers on external debt and borrowing in the coming period. It is also said here that without new...foreign investments, otherwise borrowings will not be able to ensure rapid and necessary overall growth, especially growth in the area of economy. Well, here's two questions that I find so particularly interesting, and here I said that I expect the Law of Salaries to be passed as soon as possible, and this is about external debt, its growth and service, if you'd like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5582	Thank you very much. Is anyone else coming forward for a word? As far as I can tell, he's not answering. So, I ask you to vote on the budget in the first reading. Who's for the first-reading budget? Here, vote now. So we have 12 for, 1 against, and we adopted the budget in the first reading. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session on the second reading budget. The second reading discusses amendments. 13 Please, who is it to discuss the budget in the second reading? Please vote now. So unanimous. Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the budget in the second reading. New amendments to the draft budget were submitted by Mr Tomislav Limov and Đoko Pajić. Who's answering for a word? Let's do it first. Here you go, Mr. Đoko, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5583	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues delegates, gentlemen representatives of the Council of Ministers, the means of informing you this opportunity I would like to welcome you all together and here for your knowledge and for the sake of the public and for all else I would like to explain a little bit why I have submitted an amendment as classed as six points, so to speak. I did not speak in the first part of the principles, well, the budgetary principles are known from the Budget Law and there is no dispute and there is no dispute that the budget needs to be adopted. Of course, it is necessary for these institutions and all citizens, but at the very beginning to say that here, as a representative of not now of the Serbian people, but a representative of the entire people and of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that most citizens feel that way, if they look at and read this budget, that 80% of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would not agree with this budget. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. This budget is higher somewhere by around 375 million, Mr. Limov has already said it, or about 64% compared to the 2006 draft budget compared to the 2005 budget. It's a big sizeable figure of about 375 million KM and a complete increase in it mostly we know what it is. These are the consequences, i.e. the effects on the introduction of additional value tax. Most of the funds. And we know who pays the tax on extra value. Mostly the end consumer, citizens of this country. And the complete effect of that, here we see going to the administration of the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we look at Article 3 of the table, we see that the increase in the expenditure of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the increase in expenditure in the 2005 budget of the 2006 budget, compared to the 2005 budget, is 329 million KM. Increase the expenditure of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. I think every citizen of this country would wonder why so much? There's an answer. We need institutions to strengthen BiH institutions at the expense of all citizens of this country. I don't think that's good. Mr. Limov was already at the beginning of the principles, I didn't want to talk about it then, about the principle that he has a budget reserve in terms of whether development or whether he has social components and what he has. I'm saying it's not gonna happen. There are absolutely no elements of these developmental elements that have social elements. All is therefore, everything is planned to fit into the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is planned for administration and service of external debt. Very little through these amendments in the House of Representatives, I think something tried in this direction about these social components worked to build into this budget, but it is insignificant, quite insignificant in relation to the needs of that plan. 14 In the case of certain items in the case of individual budget users, I would briefly like to draw attention to the fact that the item in most of the budget users is something that is quite unclear and can be used for what purposes – the item of contractual and other specific services. We last year when we adopted the 2005 budget, the majority and then made observations that the budget had not been developed at all, that there were no social components, that these items that were suspicious were very large and last year, and this year these items increased 100% compared to 2005. Let's just say that item -- contractual and other special services among all budget users are increasing by an eye, by 9 million 780 thousand marks. Almost double, 100% more than the 2005 budget. I feel it's not logical again and it's not justified. Even any budget user could even come out here to say that are the needs, that and that. But we also know that budget users deliver funds when they apply for their budgets, each expressing maximum demands, so come on, they'll get something from that maximum. And we have a chance of going through this budget. And I would like to point out in particular now, everyone knows that and that's an excuse, and I know that I will get an explanation on the fact that the biggest increase in these expenditures is the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina of 270 million 098 000 and 76 KM. So the largest increase of these 320 million 329 and 700 goes to the Ministry of Defense. I just want this opportunity to, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the knowledge to say that when we adopted the Law on Defence, I was against a solution to introduce at this time the common defence ministry and the transfer of all competences from entities to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I thought it would cost us a lot. It's not just that we have a common armed force. There's a lot of things, you all know that. That these are other requirements and that this will cost us much more than the existing armed forces we had in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the entity level. When defence reforms started, the first principle in all these discussions, i.e. what was announced to those who did not participate in these talks, our public and me, was an explanation to ordinary citizens for going into reform because in Bosnia and Herzegovina the existing, at that time, armed forces at the level of the entities in bulk, expensive and high cost both entities and this state. They cost a lot. One of the first explanations was. And just to remind you, I know and haven't checked for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I do know that Republika Srpska has allocated 67 million KM in its defence budget by the end of 2005. And according to this now, Republika Srpska should stand out about 92 million and 700,000 KM. So that's a lot more than that. So 25 million and 700 thousand KM more than in 2005. And where are those reforming effects? They're gone. Again, everything costs, first of all, these people of the citizens, taxpayers, those who separate from their pockets for various forms of tax. Of course, there are other items, what Mr. Limov is about, I don't want to repeat it now, the Presidency has increased by 900 thousand KM etc. etc. And so, for all these reasons, I have proposed a single amendment that has not passed on the committee, but here's for the sake of being clear not to say, this is not what I'm going to say that I'm not going to vote on or politically, is not a political question at all. I have proposed an amendment that, first of all, I have proposed from the Ministry of Defence, precisely because of what I was talking about being reduced to the 2005 expenditure level by 76 million and that those funds be directed to the Institute of the Missing, add 1 million KM. Unfortunately, 10 years after the tragic conflict in this region, another large number of families, you know it's not even true yet, and I'm not going to do it right now, although I know that number 15 roughly. A huge number of families are still searching for their missing, their loved ones for ten years and still wandering. Here is the Institute, and I think that this institute should be given to a maximum of even more resources that, if it wants fair and fair, make it do its job fairly and fairly and finally to those pangs who have been looking for their loved ones for 10 years and that all the missing are found and that these families are informed of what is with them so that they can finally live. I suggested that 12 thousand KM be awarded to the Return Fund. It's a return fund. I don't know, you probably know, the public needs to know that about 120,000 displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina still have no access to their homes, can't go back to their pre-war homes because they're mostly destroyed, devastated, destroyed. Immigrant law enforcement was made 99.5%, return. But destroyed, devastated, people can't come back. So the Fund for Returning, Reconstruction, Development, Helping These People, various visions of helping them come back, those who want it, of course. And it looks like at this point most of them do. So one huge number of people. Third, the formation of the Fund for Fair Compensation by the war of destroyed property. It's tightly connected, 12 million. To remind you, there are still about 19,000 and 500 Serb property facilities in the Federation of BiH that have been destroyed and property of Bošnjak and Hrvat in Republika Srpska around 14 000. He's got this fund to go back to. But I also have to remind you, I was checking somewhere close to October last year. There's an unfair use of that return fund. Through the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and entity-level ministries. I have the information that some 80% of these funds have been used to rebuild Bosniak property, somewhere around 15% of Serbian, about 3.5% to 4% of Croatian. And, well, let's do that, but I'm saying that there should be a fund for fair compensation by war of destroyed property for those around another 34, 35 thousand facilities throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, because many people in the current place of residence have managed somehow. Got some job and his kid hired and now it's hard not to make him go back there on his destroyed property and he's out there without a job. And this fund could be given various incentives for employment, for electricity connection, for many other things, etc. etc. I don't want to explain. Fourthly, I suggested an incentive to develop agricultural production of 20,000 KM. I don't think I should explain. Our economy is a collapse at BiH level, agriculture we have good resources, we have smart people who know they're doing their job, but they need a little help, they need to be encouraged. People would work, and this is how we import a lot of things and a suspicious quality, and we have opportunities through incentives to encourage these people to do what they do in agriculture and to finally produce healthy food here, to know what we produce and that we and our children and our generations eat healthy food. Fifthly, I have proposed a boost to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of the food industry of 15 million. I think again that even in the food industry, we have resources, we have potential, we have the possibility, as in the previous case, to produce healthy food. People need a little incentive. We're importing a lot of suspicious stuff in these products again, and we can look back at our own production. Everywhere in the world why we're importing. We import cheaply because all the others there in some countries in the environment so we import, they have incentives for it is cheaper and that's why we import it. We don't give our people any incentive measures, people can't produce, they can't find themselves in it all, and then we're forced to import everything we import from the food industry. And I don't think we need that. 16 I proposed an additional 16 million to be allocated for social programmes to provide the most vulnerable categories of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's still all this, and it's certainly beyond the consequences, the negative consequences of introducing a tax on extra value. We're aware, we're tracking what's happening to us by introducing a tax on extra value. Many things have been significantly collected, and yet the most endangered are certainly those who have been the most endangered so far, and I believe that, in addition to what has been promised 49, I do not know how few millions that is, and that in this direction, the additional 16 million incentives for the social needs of the most endangered categories of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina were to be put in place. So, nothing political. I believe that these items are in the interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what I have proposed is nothing accepted, therefore I will not be able to vote in favour of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5584	I have to admit, I'm sorry about that statement, but thank you for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5585	Thank you very much. Of course, I don't need to take up too much of your time right now, so I'm going to make it as simple as possible, especially as we've heard from my colleague Pajić, and I have to say that his proposals are really understandable to me, although I wouldn't dare touch what's meant for the defense, because I don't think these processes should be touched, but the very specification of this is certainly interesting. As for these amendments of mine from them, apparently I was much more modest, so I asked for redistribution within the budget itself in a way that if in the last year we had certain funds that were now increased by 900 thousand for the presidency, I suggest they would be increased, so they would be increased again, but by 700 thousand. That's where I saw the opportunity to redistribute those 200 grand. Then in the amendment to the second, it refers to the current reserve, it was 3 million last year, and I think it should be 3 million this year, and we automatically get that 2 million and the third amendment refers to the board of directors that they also increase by 100 grand and thus get 2 million and 300. From my amendments that I only refurbished, there were 11 of them here now 7 of the commissions respected, and part of the part I gave up whether to simplify, help, it's evident that only of those 2 million and 300 I suggested the distribution of a million. Therefore, I considered that, in particular, individual elements, which is primarily the creation of a project for informing society, instead of a niche should be 600 thousand marks. These figures are symbolic, but they are a clear message, an important message, and that is why I have chosen to stay with these amendments, and since I have not received any answer compared to those seven principles that I have set out, I have therefore made myself known as I have spoken to the budget itself. Of course, keeping in mind the overall relationship is quite clear that these amendments of mine will probably have a destiny as intended for them. Therefore, I remain with my amendments to make a statement and I will be very interested in the particular amendments to their views. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5586	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr Filipović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5587	Thanks, therefore, to what we have heard from colleagues Pajić and Lim, I believe that it will be obvious and respected Ms. Marić, because it will either need to invent a new income page and new sources for additional amendments, or it will need to be redistributed, so from someone for whom it is planned to be taken away in order to meet the new proposed amendments. I'd have one much easier question, so I don't have any amendments, but I would remind you that we've established today, accepted the request to go to parliamentary procedure as a matter of urgency, to amend and supplement the electoral law, because this election year is coming for us in the tenth month of the general election. Until then, a lot of things should be done, and among other things, when the amendment and addition of the Electoral Law has been prepared has been touched in Chapter 3 of that Law, and the law provides for amendments and additions to the Electoral Law, if this is accepted in the parliamentary procedure, we will have in these general elections before them, so before the elections themselves passive registration of voters. This passive registration of the draft voters, which is in the parliamentary procedure, also means considerable means to apply passive voter registration in this election year. Those funds aren't small. They're somewhere around two million marks. In the position of the draft budget under point 34, it seems to me that the cost of special purpose for the 2006 general elections is estimated to be 3 million and 300,000 marks. I ask – is this figure and this intended need that I was just talking about, so this is about the information about which the cowardly colleague of Limova is, informing the association of municipal electoral committees with the Central Election Commission. We changed his name, it is no longer an election commission, it is SIPA number 2 in the country, so the link with the central central electoral commission with the municipal electoral commissions, it is necessary to inform the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to have a binding municipal electoral commission with the central database for which the Central Election Commission is therefore responsible. That takes money, it takes time, and I'm asking if these 3 million and 300,000 are supposed to have these 2 million? I'm not asking about the million and seven hundred that will be the obligation, so these are the fees for municipal electoral commissions and their work, which will be the obligation of municipal and other levels for which the elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5588	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Here comes Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5589	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and representatives of public information funds, I really have a deep understanding of the many things my predecessors have talked about, and I wish there were more resources, that it was more revenue so that all of this could be realised, because all of these proposals are aimed at improving and solving major problems here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 18 On this occasion, I would like to stress the satisfaction that amendments, my amendments relating to the start of activities on the census, have been accepted on the committee. So I expect the House today to pass the law, that is, this budget in the proposed text. I want to remind you that reliable statistics are one of the obligations of the feasibility study, and here we finally seem to be able to realize that very important thing. I think that this activity so far, so the census is needlessly pushed from the technical and political sphere. By adopting today's budget, at least when it comes to what I'm talking about, the start of activity on the census will experience a sadification and all those who are both from this room and elsewhere are committed to starting with this extremely important activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5590	I thank Mr. Milojević. Is anyone else picking up? I would ask the Minister, after these amendments and discussions, to address us with a position on behalf of the Council of Ministers whether it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5591	I know that there is a procedural obligation of these delegates who had these amendments to reuse them and I really wouldn't want you to get the impression that I didn't seriously listen to those amendments and that I don't think, of course, that all the amendments are really welcome. However, in the first reading when we declare principles, there is, in these principles, something concrete. I really tried to explain in detail yesterday why I think these amendments aren't at this time, they're not here at the right time, because I think some of them, I think it was reasonable that we should form an information society agency, a law that is now under way. When it is adopted that a million and nine hundred marks left for new institutions will be sufficient funds for the agency to finance projects. During the year when they become budgetary users, in order not to need it now to push those amendments...meaning these amendments proposed by Mr Limov, we all heard it together on the commission yesterday. Of course, we as promoters, I really couldn't accept it on behalf of the promoters, because that really implies a real redistribution that we are currently not welcome in the context of a budget that has been agreed upon and which, as such, was a proposal. As far as the second request is concerned, there is indeed a great deal of need for all this, however, the social sphere in the way it is exposed here is still at entity level and how such an entity is implemented. As far as agriculture is concerned, if you look here at this part of the loan that we're returning, you'll see that a good part of the credit is related to agriculture, so what we've agreed with ifada, the fourth stage is ongoing, bricks, and many others have applied to agriculture, but that's all that's been on entities so far. So we need to make an extra effort, establish a ministry, transfer that jurisdiction, and just about that were our comments on these amendments. And because there really is a defence reform under way and what the parliamentary commission has concluded is enough, relatively little resources to reform the defence in the budget, which is why we haven't compromised the entity budgets, and we've only taken over the funding that was made last year in the ethnic budgets. So here was some comment that went to justice that these amendments really couldn't be accepted. Regarding passive registration, at the Council of Ministers two sessions ago, there was a law on passive registration of voters, if called the full text. Under the law there was a requirement for the allocation of funds related to implementation and passive registration and we agreed and 19 we made one co-ordination between the Election Commission, the CIPS and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Finance now not to list, we maintained quality coordination and we agreed on how we would finance these projects when the law was passed this year. So these funds aren't in the budget. The request is precise and very precise designed for what it is, for equipment. We agreed on a series of steps to finance it and of course it goes to the burden of these reservations that are not great for this year, because the reservations are made in accordance with the Law on the financing of institutions, that is 3% of the total budget. So it was all still in the measure it was meant to be. And so we also have approval from the Election Commission and the CIPS that this is a way to go. We can immediately access the financing of the supply of equipment, i.e. the software program is one that needs to be financed. Here's the thing. And as for wages, the law is over, we get comments from all budget users. In those comments, there was no positive view. And now budget users will still have the option, there will be a public debate, etc. However, the World Bank must give us some kind of consent to the Payments Act. We have committed to reforming public spending together with entities and have committed ourselves to the same principle of law together with entities. And it's about that. We still need the World Bank's positive position because it is related to the emsac. Therefore, since there is little difference between the users of the budget and us as ministers and the World Bank, we will now, as soon as this budget passes, if God lets us go into public debate and go to the approximation of those positions and in the procedure of by law. I hope it comes within a reasonable period of time. So you need to go through home procedures, commissions, etc. But that's it. In general, there was no increase in income in the way that in 2003, as we started to know with those coefficients, other than the newer users who received the new coefficients, in line with the decisions made by the Council of Ministers during the formation of certain offices and agencies, the Competition Council, etc. So there was no increase in salaries or fees in the meantime and there was no increase. These items based on salary levels, but only on salary levels, but only on the number of users whether they are related to transition. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5592	I don't know if you've let us down, it's good. Here's Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5593	To be allowed to say a few words in relation to the answer I received to the asked question. So I would be happy if the answer to this question was that, if this were not foreseen in this position under 3 million and 300,000 for the general elections in 2006, and that you would pay it from some clearer and more firm positions foreseen in the budget, let's say from current reserves. You didn't say that. You said you made... I don't know a few institutions, that you closed the structure. But if
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5594	20 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5595	Okay. Then I apologize. Excuse me. That makes perfect sense to me. I heard that, I'm sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5596	This is a certain way to explain to Mr. Lim why these reserves are not being reduced. Yeah. Thank you very much. I understand. Thank you very much. So do we have any more debaters? We don't. First we will declare the amendments of our colleagues LImov, with me lined up in this order, Lim, then Đoka Pajić. I'll put it on. Do you have these amendments? I think you've all got the amendments. These amendments were generally on the committee and all these amendments were by the commission, she didn't accept, I won't say she refused. It's ugly. It's a nicer term. She didn't accept it. That's right. I'm begging. Please. Limov thinks a more frequent repetition will make it faster to the truth. Amendment and Mr. Lim in Article 3 behind item 2, please. So you don't need to read. Great. The amendment and Mr. Lim. Please vote now. As far as I can tell, the amendment didn't go. Is that right? So 7 versus, 1 for, 3 abstentions. Amendment ii to Tomislav Lim. Please vote now. - Seven, two, four. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment number III to Mr Tomislav Lim. Please vote now. - So this amendment didn't go through either. Amendment number IV to Mr Tomislav Lim. Please vote now. Mr. Tomislav Lim's amendment didn't go through either. Amendment number V of Mr Tomislav Lim. Please vote now. - So 1 for, 6 against, 6 abstentions, it didn't go either. Amendment number VI to Mr Tomislav Lim. Please vote now. - Two for, four against, six abstentions. This amendment didn't go through either. 21 And Amendment number VII of Mr Tomislav LIm. Please vote now. - Three against, two for, eight abstentions. And this amendment has not passed. Thank you very much. We are now going to vote on Mr. Đoka Pajić's amendment. I'm putting on an amendment and I'm putting on a Đoke Pajić. Please. It's all one amendment here standing like that. Please. It's Joco. Okay, but I'm asking you to vote. Vote now. - 1 for, this remaining 7 against, 5 abstentions. So he didn't pass. This shows that the support of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, is large in terms of this budget, so I am asking you now to vote on the budget. Please vote now. - Nine, four against. The budget has been adopted. You don't need a second lap. The budget's been adopted. Everything's on. First I congratulate my colleagues dearly on you, waiting and congratulating the minister. It's not over till we're done. Please, since we adopted this budget in a different text, we and the House of Representatives, I ask that the presidents of the commission propose, Halida, to propose members to the Commission for the Alignment of Laws to the Budget. Halid, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5597	Here I am, the Bosniak Club is proposing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5598	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5599	The Bošnjak Club is proposing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5600	So we suggest Halid Genjac. Next up, the Croatian Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5601	The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr Milojević Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5602	Mr. Milojević and Mr. Ante Spajić. Thank you very much. So the commission, composed of Genjac, Spajić, Milojević. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5603	Just a moment, please, the club's correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5604	So in Genjac, Spajić, Radovanović. And please, colleagues, let's vote on this committee. Who's in? Vote now. - 12 for one against. And now we congratulate the minister. She was very convincing, and it's obvious that these MPs have an affinity towards the lady. Thank you so much for your hard work and effort. Now let's go, please, 8th point of the agenda, Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' 2006 budget (first reading) You've received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission adopted one amendment that has become part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings with five amendments. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? We're voting on the law in first reading. Please vote now. Thank you very much. The law was adopted in the first reading. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. I think we should vote here, too. Please vote if we're going to discuss it in another reading. Thank you very much. Vote now. - So 12, 2, one against. We're going to the law hearing now. Is anyone picking up? The amendments are under discussion. There were no amendments. We're having a debate about the law. Here you go. Any objections? There isn't. Please vote. Vote now. - The law has been passed. It's gonna be here, I think 12, 2 right. 10 for, versus 2, abstention 1. So the law is passed. Please and here we have passed this law in different texts. 23 So we suggest we have the same commission. Who's in? Turn it off now. - So 12 for, one against. Now, you, here we've made one change to the agenda, the ninth point of the agenda is Ad.9. I would like to point out to you, on the basis of Article 39(2), that the appointment of a member of the Communications Regulatory Agency Board. The Law on Communications, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, appoints the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina as members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency Council. On a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Branko Todorović is proposed to be a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency Council, instead of Rajko Popović, who resigned to membership. The House of Representatives appointed Branko Todorović as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency Council. Is anyone picking up? As far as I can see, no one. Please vote now. Thank you very much. - So is it unanimous, or is one abstention? So 12 for, 1 abstention. We chose Mr Branko Todorović as a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Regulatory Agency. If Mr. Todorović is here, I congratulate him. The tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. The report by the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions on the audit carried out for 2004 was audited by 48 institutions here. The committees of this house have been discussing and I am thinking about every one of these reports. They searched all the reports, and I think they gave their opinion on all of this, about the audit that was carried out. We have a colleague here, the head of the commission will say a few sentences, and then, if the gentlemen of the audit need to say a few sentences. Chief of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5605	I thank Mr. Chairman, only on behalf of the Commission to say that from 12 September 2005, by 8 February this year, we had six sessions of the committee that discussed 40 audit reports and conducted 7 discussions with certain budget users where the commission established or at least some members suggested that we have something to discuss with the responsible persons from these budget users and on which basis it delivered this report with 16 of these conclusions, so I propose that this home and adopt this report. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5606	Thank you very much. Please, we've actually been having talks with these budget users and trying to get budget users to correct all shortcomings as soon as possible and start acting, when it comes to using budget funds completely in the spirit of the law to reduce some deviations, etc. I don't know if there's any discussion, whether there's any need for further discussion, for further discussion, but here's Mr. Đoko Pajić, however, answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5607	So if, I'd rather maybe give a word to the gentleman from the audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5608	I thought he would be pleased with the fact that the report was commended by the commission and that there was no need for discussion. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5609	Well, fellow delegates, I wouldn't be long. I just want a few notes. In fact, I believe that what Mrs Stojanovć said was of course to be accepted, the audit reports are well done in my opinion. All irregularities and failures in the financial business of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been identified, it is clear from what has been exposed from the audit to see where these failures are. However, I would also suggest what the commission proposed quite correctly, but I would just like a few notes. I am very interested in most of the budget users are mostly repeating failures in the same items, insufficient internal control etc. These are some of the old ones I think most of the budget users and everywhere the financial business audit is done, there's nothing you can do about it. I propose that certain proposals, i.e. which should be removed as soon as possible in the audits, but in most cases, I have seen a lot of budget users proposed by the audit to do, have not been done. Let's go to some institutions of small, insignificant, let's figure it out, but I'm really this surprised about, say, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there are some small and bigger errors in financial business. Right at the Bureau... and yet it wasn't done, and here's our commission didn't visit the presidency to see what was going on there and why there were these gaps and why they weren't removed from you. And let's just say maybe even at the Foreign Ministry where there's been a lot of leaks, so most of them haven't been removed, but there's a commission that's visited the Foreign Ministry and I think it's going to do it, and I'm really surprised that the state body, or one authority, is the Competitive Council, that it could work, that it's using budget funds, that it's paying off its workers without the Internal Organization Regulations, it's really inappropriate and it's very strange what I think it is, in any case,...yes. It's really weird that something like that could happen, but that's what it's all about. And in any case, I support the Commission's proposal on the grounds that I resent not visiting the Presidency and pointing to these failures, warning them that this is no longer happening. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5610	We wanted to set them up, visit them, but they were on their way. Please, there's Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5611	Dear President, since,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5612	He won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5613	Wrong again.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5614	Move to the left. A joke aside, well-intentioned Mr. Chairman in relation to a little earlier vote on the budget, see if an entity-dominated budget can be adopted without an entity-dominated majority. There's a way to get adopted, so in order for someone not to get attached to this problem, I suggest you check it again after this and bring it in line with the definition that we have a budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5615	We do, we already checked that on the flight.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5616	If it's three votes in
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5617	We've got, we've got, we've checked.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5618	But you need to repeat the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5619	This is good right, there's no one to complain about.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5620	So, no problem just warning. As far as this is concerned, of course it's not disputed for me either, they're not disputed findings in terms of their truthfulness, and I'm taking them very seriously. So everything that the review has installed in these reports is not questionable for me. There are, of course, certain elements that are symptomatic. For example, this report on the revision of the Presidency's work. One of the participants, or rather a man who is the deputy chief auditor, has issued an opinion, and I think first of all, that institution, therefore the state audit should be kept in mind that it is not a good message. So I'm not questioning what was found either, but we have to keep that element in mind. I am now not going to mention all those illegalities at all, and it is frantic that the recommendations of the auditors are not respected by our institution, so on. And all the less there are two constants. So there's a flaw in 26 internal or internal control. It's rare except the nine they said were satisfying, and 29 others are not good. And the other thing is this information recommendation. But what our relationship with that question is, here we are and we said it for a moment. In any case, what I think you're the problem, because there's a question of meaning at all, if the revision is going to recommend and if it can't be fixed by the year, then I don't see the great purpose of having an audit as an institution. So I think that we should make an effort, so in our legislation, we should install in our regulations a certain bond between the findings of the audit and the mandatory activities of the prosecutions and other bodies that can investigate certain elements, because it is evident that their reports indicate that there are indications not only to violate the rules, but there may also be crime. When it comes to respecting certain laws, let's just take the Public Procurement Act, and let's see, and that clearly says here that for some institutions it's a dead letter on paper. On the other hand, the question arises if you respected ministers do not have 37% of the employees in your ministry, the question arises in which way you and whether you in full capacity can answer the task ahead of you. If you can, change the systemization and install a smaller number of executioners into the rulebook. That I'm not saying right now that it's not a lonely example, but it's very symptomatic that this refers precisely to the Ministry of Finance and the vaults where there are also certain shortcomings that have been identified by the audit. I will not now mention a whole series of other institutions, of DGS which are not filled and the question arises at all why it is so and who is in the interest and why we through and redistribution, so if there is even a need for additional funds we do not implement this, because simply if we have laws established obligations regarding the formation, establishment, institution, if the Council of Ministers adopts appropriate regulations, then it is not acceptable that these regulations are not implemented, are not implemented in practice. I've had the illustrations here for the sake of and what's the revision of institutions related to the Council of Ministers, but here's how I don't bother you, you see, and there, especially my colleagues from the Intelligence Agency Commission, are witnesses that we already have something that comes from that institution as a qualification of obstruction in the process itself. And so we have this, we have this bill, we have a lower act, so the Internal Affairs Regulation provides, and I, it's really unacceptable for me that a whole series of institutions don't care about it, and especially for the internal control. I have to go on this occasion, so I don't want to talk about the presidency, because you know there's that one, there's a question of why they didn't go, so you know why they didn't go. So, it's not good to go with seeing, because they have universal cars, we know that the driver who poured gasoline and diesel into one and the same car just wasn't responsible for it. That's what we saw last year. But in any case, it is repeated that we do not have a well-resolved question from the Hague tribunal's liaison officers. And we keep having these problems with one office, and the other one has extra funds, etc. and keep repeating the revision of the recommendation. It doesn't have to be a uniform to regulate, regulate, but it's regulated. But here's the second, third year, is this the third year's already 2006 thing hasn't changed. So, I simply believe that with the support of these views that our commission has proposed that we accept them today and as far as I'm concerned, I do not have a dilemma about supporting the views of our commission, but I think it should be stronger to oblige all institutions to act more responsibly in relation to the audit and their recommendations, and it is precisely an opportunity when the 27 budget is adopted to tell them that you can't get $900, because you did what constitutes a violation of the rules, etc. You have seen there that the revision is symptomatic and giving authority to certain advisers, etc., but it seems that the advisers are the main people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. See only public statements of representatives of individual institutions related to VAT, etc. So you'll see that the main people in the country are just counselors, and it's very questionable whether and what it really means is that he's signed on the budgets of that advisor in the presidency or I don't know somewhere else, etc. So here's what I think, as a House, we need to support more strongly the insistence of the revision that these things are being washed away, and as far as I'm concerned with the revision, there is so far a Bianca support, even though I say, I wish there was consensus among them, because I appreciate that the internal control requested within this institution is something that should not have been a dilemma, and I realized that it was made a precedent because of the fact that it had not been reviewed again. I believe that this examination would also confirm what was found in the report itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5621	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. I feel here and one obligation to tell my colleagues that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina almost eliminated all the shortcomings that we had in the report, which we had in '94. in the report, and even we are commended that we are doing a lot of good, and that was one of the conditions for inviting other budget users to talk because, as we say, we cleaned up in front of our own yard, or in our own backyard, and we acquired the right to tell others that they can, that they should and should do something like that. I think we did, however, and the commission and the review will most likely work more intensively in the coming period. The audit has submitted a lot of these reports to its prosecution, as far as I know, and it's the prosecution that decides whether to initiate the proceedings or not. What they were obliged to do, they did now is on others and they estimate it. I think we've heard these discussions, too, and I would like to ask that we accept the audit reports for 2004 and the report of the Administrative Commission of this House. Please vote now. Thank you very much. Thank you unanimously. Me this time, we're done here. The follow-up to this session follows a panel session that must take place within 7 days, and you will be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you very much. Have a good trip. The sit-down ended at 4:15 p.m. 28 Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and I welcome the extension of the 43rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the session there are 15 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. For resuming 45th, pardon the 54th session, we have the next agenda. You have this so I don't read it and we've reached the 11th point of the agenda. Now we move on to the 11th point called Ad.11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2005 Report from the Commission you received. The House of Representatives passed the report. I'm calling on a colleague from the Agency if he thinks he should address the meeting before the adoption to speak to the MPs before the adoption, and if we don't have to, then we'll stick around and vote on what we got as material. There's no need, is there? Thank you very much. Are there any debaters? Mr. Čengić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5623	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, others present, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you and, in connection with this item of the agenda, I would like to say that the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy at the House of Peoples at its 46th session was considering this report and adopted it. The Commission has assessed that the report is very large, precise, technically well done, the methodologically followed basic thread and what we consider to be the most important results achieved in the previous year are very important and we have assessed the report with quality. With all this in mind, the Commission has suggested that a brief financial report of the year for which the report is being prepared and secondly, the Commission has proposed to the management of the Directorate to consider the possibility that its activities and plan for further activities, or some of the activities foreseen in the plan for this year, should be presented to the Commission prior to the final decision on some very important issues as shown in this report, which has also been submitted to colleagues. 29 In any case, the Commission has taken note of the report and considers that it reflects the real situation and has given support to further activities of the Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5624	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a word. I'm putting this regulatory agency's report to the vote. Please, who's in? Vote now. We say it's unanimous here, but someone's missing the vote. It's a mistake. So we can say that we unanimously accepted this report. Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić, go ahead. Since this report, which I believe you all have received earlier, is the fourth point in which it is said to be asked by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of the entity to draw up a social protection plan for the population regarding the payment of electricity by the end of April 2006 and deliver a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for information by 15.5.2006. Since this is a very important issue, and in the report itself, the Directorate suggests the possibility of doing a quality plan of some kind of social protection for the population, we think it would be good for the House to declare this and therefore to send a letter to the Council of Ministers and entity governments to enter this activity. Thank you very much. Here we have heard, it would be a proposal for one conclusion that should be adopted by this home. Are there opposing opinions, or other opinions? Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote Mr. Čengić's proposal that the Council of Ministers and Entity Government make one how, one social protection plan related to being consumers of electricity. Please, who's in? Vote now. Thank you very much - we have 13 and 2 abstentions. So this conclusion is accepted. Thank you very much. Please item 12 of the agenda is Ad.12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this protocol. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? 30 Is there a need for the competent commission to say a few sentences? There isn't. Thank you very much. Is there a request for a discussion? There isn't. Thank you very much. Please vote on the Protocol on ratification of the Protocol on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Vote now. - 14 for, therefore unanimously, no one against, there is no one abstention. We've got some mistakes here, or someone has, someone hasn't pressed. I mean, Goran, you're not, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5626	I'm in.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5627	And Goran's in. So we're going to say it in unanimity. Thank you very much. So we give consent to ratification. Thirteen A.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija on the reading of their own citizens and foreigners You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate in this house. Any word from anyone. Here's the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5628	Just for a little while. As far as this contract is concerned, he is one of the already several contracts signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the readmission, so the obligation to return his own citizens unless, in an illegal manner, they reach the territory of Romania and vice versa. This contract is important because Rumunija is becoming a full member of the EU next year and the other parties as it expands the number of countries with which it has bilateral readmissions which improves Bosnia and Herzegovina's position in the implementation of the overall commitments, i.e. facilitating Bosnia and Herzegovina's visa regime towards European countries, including Rumunija, according to the Schengen countries and others, and for this reason the Commission has given the House the opportunity to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5629	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone picking up? He's not answering. We place the agreement on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija on the readmission of their own citizens and foreigners. Please vote now. - So this agreement was unanimously adopted. Thank you very much. 31 The fourteenth item of the agenda is Ad.14. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers and the Government of Japan The report of the committee responsible has been received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5630	At its 46th session, the Commission discussed this agreement with the Government of Japan and proposed that it be ratified. He's significant for two reasons. First because Jaka is a very important Džajka institution for international assistance for many years, almost immediately since the signing of Dayton is present in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory and has participated in the development of certain master plans for infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, this agreement allows other organisations of government and government organisations in Japan to exchange technical and other co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the most important part or most of the space in this contract is dedicated to the rights and positions of people on behalf of these organisations, or institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time of the implementation of these projects. Therefore, their avoidance rights do not tax, no obligation to pay customs duties, etc. which is a common, common rule in international co-operation. In that sense, this contract is considered to be important for further improving and opening opportunities for greater co-operation with Japan, which is the second largest donor for Bosnia and Herzegovina since the US since the Dayton Peace Agreement to date. For all reasons, the Commission proposes to the House that this agreement be ratified.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5631	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I am voting on the agreement on ratification of the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Japan. Please vote now. So unanimity is given to the ratification of this agreement. The 15th item of the agenda is Ad.15. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of the rights of victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina which were members of the HVO and members of their families The report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. 32 I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? Is there a President of the Commission? Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5632	Therefore, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at its 46th session in
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5633	A little stronger, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5634	I'm sorry. So maybe it wasn't involved. Therefore, at its 46th session at the third session of the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission, the Commission discussed this proposal and after a long, longer debate involving all the members present, Mr Osman Brka was absent for legitimate reasons, because of the way out, the Commission accepted this contract most of the votes and proposed that the House be ratified. In addition to the contract itself, the Commission adopted two conclusions. One on a proposal from the Serbian Club of MPs, and this is what the Commission is asking the competent authorities to make a correction to Article 4 in collaboration with the Republic of Croatia and mention the period covered by the contract, which is defined as defending the sovereignty of the Contracting States as a tragic conflict. This conclusion was accepted by four votes in favour and one against, and I, Hasan Čengić, was against this and took my view against this conclusion because I found this unacceptable. The second conclusion adopted at the Commission's session reads this, proposed by colleagues from the Croatian Club of Delegates - the Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to ask the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to launch an initiative to the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia after ratification of the contract in order to implement certain technical repairs in this Treaty. This conclusion was also adopted by 4 votes for and 1 against. Excuse me, I have four votes for and one against. I also voted against here. So I took my opinion out, because I don't think these repairs can be done after ratification, but before. Before I conclude this, I want to say this. In conversations with my esteemed colleagues, I have voiced the view that this contract does not satisfy the elements that could make it ratified and unanimously accepted. First of all, because it is contrary to certain constitutional solutions that are in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time and of course because they treat unequal citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but at the same time it also causes a number of other very suspicious solutions, as well as problems that could be very important in the follow-up of further co-operation. As it is very important that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia co-operate without any burdens and their co-operation as much as possible and as quickly as possible, my proposal was to discuss, instead of stating the ratification of this before making a decision on the Commission and to try to find a solution that could satisfy all sides and which would not therefore have its, position of the opposite Constitution, legal uncertainty, indeterminateness or others, without raising any other very serious issues when it comes to the position of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their equality, or the position of interest of the Bosniak people. 33 However, as the majority of votes with 3 votes in favour of and 1 abstention and 1 against, I voted against this, the Commission proposed a treaty to the House to be ratified. Here we are here today to discuss the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5635	Thank you very much. Here we heard Mr. Čengić's exposure. I'm asking if there are any more debaters. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5636	I welcome you all to our leadership home, colleagues, guests and journalists. Since this is a very serious and delicate question, I take with many things said by Mr. Čengić here agree and that I would not be very long, I will try to reasonably read my remarks on this contract. There are several individual and general remarks, so I'll take the lead. The first remark on Article 1st point 7 and 8 is absolutely unacceptable because, as a condition for the exercise of rights, the nationality of the Republic of Croatia and not only of the members of the HVO, but of the point 8 and of the members and their families. Question - Is this an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for the citizens of Croatia, which would be the role of Bosnia and Herzegovina and besides to encourage its citizens to become nationals of another country? Article 1(1), point 11 is unacceptable. Let me remind you of date 18.9.91. year, the JNA attack on Ravna, because through a series of legislation, it has been accepted that the period is being prepared for the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is being treated as a disaster in the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and counts the time of 30.4.'91. the year, and the official aggression since 6.4.92. A year. Article 94. The Law on PIO in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to which the law calls on the Proposal for an Agreement, see Article 2. Property law agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, property return rights, Article 1. The law on abandoned properties in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 1, the Law on abandoned dwellings of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from which as well as in Republika Srpska. Article 5(1) is acceptable, as it follows that Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to confirm the status established by Croatia's solution and thus recognises the right in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So Bosnia and Herzegovina must accept what Croatia has determined. What kind of equality is the position of the Contracting Parties? Article 2 It is unacceptable, imposing a obligation on Bosnia and Herzegovina and delivering a solution to Croatia, even in a situation where a theoretical person did not apply in Croatia for recognition of rights. Its solution from Bosnia and Herzegovina is being delivered to Croatia. Further, general remarks. The language of the agreement is quite inaccurate, general, inadequate language of the legal rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina to which the agreement is called, which could cause problems in application even if the agreement is acceptable. 34 Two. The agreement is unacceptable by purpose and by the results it should achieve. In essence, the agreement would treat only members of HVO Hrvat with Croatian citizenship. At the same time, Hrvat who were members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where according to the law was the HVO, only in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army units and would not have that right, as well as Bošnjak and Srbin, members of the HVO who do not have Croatian citizenship. Would the agreement only apply to the HVO under the command of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia, or to the HVO, which was part of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brigada HVO kralj Tvrtko in Sarajevo, 107 Brcanska and the like? The agreement does not provide an answer, although consistent law enforcement could interpret the agreement as referring only to the HVO, outside the armed forces of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which should not be the intention of the agreement. If the HVO is considered a part of the Croatian army, then there is no need for the HVO to have any rights in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina would finance part of the membership of members of the HVO who should be paid to them by Croatia. Therefore, the agreement would result in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, really helping Croatia, because it is carrying out part of Croatia's financial obligations towards its defenders, not that Croatia is helping Bosnia and Herzegovina to make an effort through the agreement to demonstrate its unacceptability by its results. Article 4 is acceptable because it covers persons who have obtained pension rights under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. So to Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. They are persons who are already receiving pensions in Croatia and are now given the same right to sign this contract from the day of signing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question – How is it set out is that the commitments that Croatia has paid so far to its citizens and its citizens under this agreement will partially shift to the burden of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is in direct contrast to article 65. The law on the rights of defenders in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it regulates the assistance of other states in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is about the additional commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 4 is also unacceptable for the reason of the defence of the sovereignty of the state, the state of the Contracting States and the question arises whether the HVO was in defence of sovereignty both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia? So far, there has been no known public act that the HVO was in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, because this is what it wants. Keep going. Article 6 is unacceptable because in Section 1 the rights of Croatian defenders are spoken of in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Homeland War defenders. So by the law of the Republic of Croatia. Under the regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war, the HVO was the armed force of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 2. Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not neighbouring countries of Croatia. Because these HVOs are recognised as the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and they are taking away the legal property of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces. Question – Is this right for fighters only of the Republic of Croatia, what does it have to do with it, or should the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? 35 Article 3, not Article 9, is unacceptable. Under 3rd, as it regulates health care, which is outside the scope of Article 62(3). A law on the rights of defenders in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina that should be the basis of this contract. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in its opening position, guarantees equality to citizens. With this contract, Articles 1 7 and 8 where, as a condition, it is required to be a member of the Croatian HVO, it is directly at the expense of citizens' equality, because this right cannot be achieved by members of the HVO, while Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat who do not have Croatian citizenship, and the contract speaks of helping members of the HVO. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 1 d) provides that citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina may have citizenship of another country provided there is a bilateral contract approved by the Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with Article 4d) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and that country. So far, there is no bilateral agreement on dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as prescribed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, none of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina could use the right to do so without violating the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Question – Does the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina need legalisation with this contract to violate the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 1(c) as a reference date for citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be adopted on 6.4.In '92, the date of recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence and international sovereignty from the European Community. As regards the constitutional provision referred to above, Article 1 point 11 is unconstitutional. Contract, period of death from 18.9.91. the year and the date of entry into force of Article 4(1); It's a contract. Victims of war from a period of defense sovereignty of the State Contracting States. If Bosnia and Herzegovina has gained international sovereignty 6.4.'92, whose defense it is, whose defense of sovereignty, 18.9.91. A year. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5637	Thank you, Mr. Brki. Here we have heard the discussion of the Brk. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5638	On behalf of the Bosniaks Club, I suggest that we return the contract to work and remove the perceived shortcomings and return it as quickly as possible in a more urgent procedure to parliamentary procedure without any perceived deficiencies. Please draw the above conclusion and ask that this conclusion be put to the vote before the statement itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5639	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Yes, sir. Here you go, Mr. Limov. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5640	Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of public information funds and other BiH institutions, representatives of the international community, I welcome you all together. Of course, I'll say my position here. Therefore, it is evident that the argument made by the members of the Commission deserves certainly respect. Of course, it deserves respect and the fact that the Commission has proposed to this House that consent, therefore, be given in the way that the Rules of Procedure and, in that sense, if we question the Commission's decision, I appreciate that we make one precedent and the question is what our relationship will be like with other Commission decisions. I personally, therefore, support giving consent to ratifying this international treaty and, above all, based on the fact that this contract has passed the proper procedure and I suppose these elements, which have been presented in the debate, had to be taken into account both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, including the House of Representatives. In any case, I personally, therefore, think that this contract should be approached as well as all other contracts, as we have approached so far and today, including at the previous sessions and that through other mechanisms in the previous procedure, the elimination of all that can cause suspicion that something is anti-constitutional. Of course, it is understood that if there are these elements, there are appropriate procedures and it is clear from our Rules of Procedure who is what and how should be done about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5641	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5642	Dear colleagues, guests, so I thought I wouldn't answer at all. However, after what Mr. Brka read, where many quotes have been made, which are not quotes from the contract, but from a different point of view. Therefore, the contract does not mention any words of Hrvat, Srbin, Bošnjak or anyone, but speaks of members of the HVO, who were injured, wounded, killed, etc. their families. Therefore, there is no discrimination on this matter at all. It's not an object at all. The same applies to both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, Židov, Rom, and I do not know who was a statusant of the HVO. If we should now return again and watch how the membership of the HVO, the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and RS is defined, etc. It'll take us a little further, be careful, because that's how we don't handle this today. Apparently, some people think they should do it that way. Okay. It's a legitimate right. But I don't think that's a good way to do it. Furthermore, also about that, about the date. So what is and what is the date, the real date of the start of the war, of aggression, of conflict, of preparation, etc. The contract mentions one date, which is set out in the relevant law, which is valid in the Federation of BiH, that date is quoted. What's so controversial about that? That I do not cite examples that can be quoted again or incorrectly, or that are later interpreted in another way, etc. They're connoting. That's another thing. 37 But what is most important, which is the intention of this contract, and it is to help one category of people and I think there is nothing in the contract that would be unacceptable if there were other political connotations etc. The people to whom this applies are at least political. They're disabled, they're children without parents, etc. So let's not, let's not help them, in a way that costs us as a common state nothing. I'm saying it and it's about this we're proving. So this doesn't cost BiH anything, nothing at all. And it also helps the wider community. How? If he comes through this help to this category of people, I don't know how many millions, two, five, ten, fifty million marks, who cares. It does them good, it helps them, they'll spend it here. It's our people or we may be arguing and it's being read a little bit out of a ton of individual debates, tones, etc. Let's ask the question whether these are the people to whom the citizens of BiH are concerned. Look, these are very dangerous thesis, if such a thesis or story exists. Let's not do this. If there's something that we can't do or that we didn't agree on definitions, etc. Let's not worry about it every day. Let someone else handle it, and so do we, but on some other occasion, not the occasion of this contract. Really, I won't be long, because of course I won't understand anyone's thinking and commitment. So I'm going to finish, because I consider every job if it doesn't have any effect that it's a sizif's job, I'm going to finish my debate, and I'm just going to ask that it's not just one angle, I just don't know how anyone sees it, but we do what's pragmatic, useful, it doesn't cost us anything. The realisation of the contract only brings good to these people that it applies to, well to the entire BiH community, because it is some kind of means that it will spend on our premises. And the political connotations of this contract, we have questions and opportunities to talk about other issues, but when it comes to order. Let’s not break any other questions through this question, nor introduce them, and then talk through this category of people about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5643	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Đoko Pajić answered the words. Ah, the replica. Please have an Osman brkati replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5644	I'm sorry, Mr. Jukić. Obviously there's a replacement here for thesis on your part. After all, I and any of us have no intention of having anyone materially damaged in Bosnia to whom these funds are intended. If there were so many more, Bog give it to me. I'd like that. However, exactly what you said at the end, your last sentence, last one, don't bring political connotations here. Don't put them in the contract. You're already on one, the one who made the deal, not you, but the one who made the contract, the political connotations he put in the contract. Let's make a contract that's acceptable to everyone, not through a contract to introduce some political definitions that don't stand. It's just that someone didn't have the best intentions here when he made a deal with those definitions that were put into the contract. And that's why I have a proposal, and probably all of my colleagues, let's make a deal, which is acceptable without political connotations and it's all settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5645	Thank you very much. Mr. Đoko Pajić answered for the discussion. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5646	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I have this contract and I have the Commission's conclusion, of course, with the conclusion of Mr Čengić that, if the Commission hadn't reached a unanimous conclusion, but, behold, I would, in the end, be thinking about it, I want to say a few sentences. Perhaps I could even agree, in general with Mr. Brk's remarks, what he just said, that we really didn't need such a deal with such political connotations. Article 4. Absolutely unacceptable, that as such one such contract appears before this home, absolutely unacceptable. I also have a disputed Article 1st point 11 of the date 18.9.1991. So, in the aftermath of the case, Articles 1 and 4 are the opposite. If Article 4 was to be in agreement with Article 1 then Article 4 had to stand a tragic conflict in the region or conflict in the premises of the former SFRY, and see where this HVO and which had been since 18.9.1991, what was happening in Bosnia at that time was the SFRY as a legitimate and internationally recognised and international state. And, anyway, I was at the beginning, I wouldn't be making this more difficult victim of war right now if they needed help and whoever could help them, that's really good. On the other hand, I don't really have any objections, but I really think in the end that such a contract, as such, was not supposed to appear at all in front of delegates, because it is known when the conflict started in the region and it is known when a tragic conflict began in the premises of the former SFRY, whether someone treated it as a tragic sukov or someone as a civil war, or someone in some other way, but, indeed, this is one political document, which, of course, with political connotations, which he had, which he had to have, which he should have, but once again, he didn't really have such a contract to appear before the delegates and whoever made the contract, he really had to run all that account, if he wanted us all together without controversy and without heated debates to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5647	Thank you very much, Mr. Pajić. Are there any more debaters? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5648	I welcome the really preparedness of the Republic of Croatia to help certain categories, combat populations. Therefore, welcoming the assistance of the Republic of Croatia to help certain categories of the fighting populations, as found in Article 45. The law on the rights of fighters and members of their families in the Federation of BiH, and, of course, the intention and the need to do so in accordance with the Constitution, quoted by law, with international norms, in a transparent manner and, indeed, seeing certain shortcomings, which do not exclude the possibility of BiH creating obligations which it has not yet had, not only assistance, but also obligations that its funds did not have. That possibility, apparently, exists. This contract allows BiH to create commitments to its funds with disabilities it did not have, because the unconditionally and unconditionally, rightful decision on status, pension solutions are recognised in BiH, regardless of the person does not meet the conditions of BiH, regardless of which it does not even have to have a residence in BiH, etc. I think with the same effects for the members of these families and these categories of these fighting populations, you can make an agreement with the same effects, but devoid of these depths and ambiguities. It's possible, it's simple, and I think it's a far better way to do it and to address the shortcomings in this agreement as urgently as possible and to end this business in the interest of these people. 39 Other mechanisms, which move, require more time, carry more time, it is not in the interest of these people. And, therefore, after these discussions, which have been made, I would further ask you to adopt the conclusion that this agreement will return to immediate completion and elimination of the observed shortcomings. So, I ask you to draw that conclusion, very clearly standing behind all possible reasons, which can be matured and which are familiar to us. So, put my conclusion that this contract will return to dorado, to remove the deeper and to adopt itself as quickly as possible and ask you to put this conclusion to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5649	Thank you very much. It is quite clear that the proposal of your conclusion will be at the polls. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5650	This isn't a replica. This is my second call. I'm sorry I didn't say this in my first report. You see, we have different standards and criteria when we talk about any question. Here's an example. Today, about half an hour ago, we adopted a protocol, an international document, a Protocol on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. I assure you that for me, just when I cut my hair by the hair, there are more doubts here than in this contract. Why? Here, for example. This is where the wrong state is mentioned, they say it's not BiH, it's Bosnia. Watch out. Is that a big mistake? Is that acceptable? If we're looking at those guys again, I don't know any formal ones either, I don't know any things. He also says that the valid English language or says, now overcoming the issue of the term is overwhelming, but the valid English language, in the domestic languages, domestic document etc. So I invite all my colleagues, all of you, to be at the height of our mission and not to be, first of all let's be responsible and let's not always look at the decimal point, whether or not it is. I assure you that there are very few documents, very few that are perfect and deprived, these shortcomings. Well, that's the way it is. But obviously we sometimes use such arguments, wanting to challenge something. And, usually behind these formal grudges and disputes, there's actually another thing, the unpreparedness to accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5651	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Dr Radovanović answered the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5652	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose this conclusion on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, which was adopted by the Commission to adopt it and the House. He's supposed to read it. The home of the people requires the competent authorities to carry out the correction of Article 4 in co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and mention the period covered by the contract as a tragic conflict.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5653	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović, but if we say that this conclusion is going to redefine it, or to arrange it, then it does not mean, it means delaying the signing. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5654	That is the conclusion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5655	Thank you very much. Okay, that's the Commission's conclusion. Is there any more debaters?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5656	Well, hello, everyone who's been following our work. So what Mr. Radovanović suggested has point 2. This is part of the Commission's report. This should not be adopted afterwards. So, that's what Dom's gonna say. There's no doubt about it. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5657	In the Commission's report that the Commission adopted this conclusion and that it does. The Commission shall require the competent authorities. This is the Commission's conclusion and the Commission adopted it. I suggest that this conclusion which the House will adopt and which will vote as I have said.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5658	Then Dom requires it. Thank you very much. I'll, if you'll excuse me, go ahead, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5659	So, whomever carefully reads the Commission's conclusion, against whom I was explicitly against. He says. After ratification, that means something else. We first need to decide whether or not to ratify the contract here, and only after that can we declare our conclusion. It's very precise in the conclusion and there's no discussion at all. That was the discussion, and that is what the report reads. It is, indeed. So after you get, the point is that after this, not before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5660	Thank you very much. I, too, understand that. That's why I wanted to say, you need to adopt, so after ratification, you have to order it to be done. That's right. That's how it works in this conclusion. Please, nice. Mr. Radovanović, we now understand this after ratification to approach the change of the agreement, in the way you say it. It's a condition that it would be a ratification. So, after ratification, after ratification. So now I think from what we heard and how we discussed it, I should put Mr. Halid Genjac's proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5661	Be patient, I've called before you. I can't believe he's not gonna have every opportunity to say everything. We have never before had the practice to do business is defined, a report of the relevant commission has come. We've got him in front of us. I'm not gonna read it. We all have it. We know what's in it. It also contains the Commission's proposals in points 1 and 2 for conclusions. By accepting the Commission's report on granting approval to ratification, for the ratification of this treaty, we have practically accepted these two conclusions, but we can, in particular, do what Mr Radovanović asked for. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5662	But we also accepted ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5663	That's right. In order for us to conclude anything under the contract, we must first of all respect the order in which the Rules of Procedure ordered it. The Rules of Procedure state that a report of the relevant commission is being considered. We can also discuss later the proposal made by a respected colleague of Genjac and other proposals that would happen, but we must accept the report of the relevant commission or reject it. Thank you very much. There's no third.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5664	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. It seems to me when the Commission's proposal is accepted that all other proposals do not make sense. All the other suggestions, and if we accept, please, I'll let you say I'm wrong, but here's to hearing ourselves for a while if he can, I've been listening. If we accept the Commission's report, then the gentleman's question, that is, the definition of this Genjac, loses its meaning. But I think we have another chance to say we're going to try to postpone it a little bit so that the people who made that agreement change something or dress up to these discussions as we talked, and then the commission's report is going to be different, so yes, so I think we can reconcile things. I am the person who thinks that this contract, in these relations, should be of such quality and so groomed that it is accepted and that, normally in BiH relations between BiH and the Republic of Croatia go forward, as I want relations with other neighbours to go forward and be quality. However, here we heard a series of remarks, so I beg to see. Well, it's almost one thing to me as a man or I think, but I think we vote first, if we tell Mr. Genjac we don't accept that, and we're going to adopt the Commission's proposal, or we're going to adopt the Komisje's proposal, and then we don't have to vote on this Genjce proposal. Do I get this right, excuse me, help me. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5665	Indeed, the point is called reviewing the committee's report and we are considering the committee's report. As part of the examination of the committee responsible, various proposals, opinions, proposals for conclusions, etc. appear. All that is related to the conclusion of the committee in charge, and in some ways changes, complements the debate, is put before the Commission's final report on the vote, because otherwise, it makes absolutely no sense to adopt the charter of the Commission and the final story. So it is a review of the committee's report, but as part of the review of the report in the context of the report and the relation to the report, the first proposals are put in place, which in some ways the Commission's opinion elaborates, complements or has a different opinion, etc. After all this has been corrected, the final act is the adoption of the Joint Commission's reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5666	That's how I understand it. Please, nice. If I'm wrong, tell me. For that, I'd like to put it on, I think we should put Mr. Genjac's conclusion on the plea. You've heard this proposal. So, since Genjac also believes that there is a need for this to be returned to 42 governments, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reconsider this problem to remove the ambiguities, which are, here, presented and to try to make a quality agreement. Please, IGenjac putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in favour of Mr. Halid Genjac's proposal, please vote now. So Mr. HalidGenjac proposal didn't go through. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5667	In accordance with Article 4th point e. of the Constitution of BiH and Article 134 point 1 and point 2. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Club of Delegates of Bosniaks, the Bosniak Peoples, declares that giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the area of the rights of war victims in BiH, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, are destructive in the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Here is the text of a statement containing complete explanations, precise, cited etc. So that I don't keep this whole set together, because, of course, it's going to be the subject of considering competent instances. I will only conclude what is the conclusion of our statement. Therefore, the Bosniak People's Delegates Club welcomes the intention of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the Rights of the Federation of BiH Fighters, and in a transparent manner provides assistance to BiH, intended for personal reception of certain categories of fighting populations. In order to regulate the use of funds from this assistance, the Law on the Rights of the Federation of BiH fighters provides for a state agreement, not a contract, and it is necessary to ratify it as soon as possible. The proposed text of the Treaty, however, is destructive to the vital interests of the Bosniak people, because the cited provisions of the proposed Treaty show that its application would mean new obligations, rather than helping disabled funds in BiH. There is no bilateral agreement on dual citizenship with the Republic of Croatia, bringing beneficiaries of the Treaty's right to a state of legal uncertainty. Provisions are set out to show that the application of the Treaty would create discrimination within certain categories of Bosnian and Herzegovina's fighting populations, as the conditions of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and membership of the HVO are defined. The question arises as to what is the case with persons from the same fighting populations, as it is legal, who have Croatian citizenship and are not members of the HVO, but are members of the BiH Armed Forces, the part of which is part of the HVO according to the Law, precisely on the rights of fighters and their families in the Federation on which the Treaty is based. So within certain categories of combat populations, which is the basis of the law on the rights of fighters according to Article 65. ... this contract would in the way that the provisions stated made discrimination within the same categories of fighting populations. Furthermore, the definitions of the period of death are inconsistencies, internationally established and generally known facts. I believe that the text of the agreement should be drawn up without the above-mentioned shortcomings and as soon as possible to initiate the ratification procedure for such an agreement. Thank you. The text of the statement has been signed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of five delegates and the conditions have been met to treat it as a statement of objection to the destruction of the vital interest of a nation. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5668	Thank you very much. This is Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5669	Mr. Chairman, in an effort to find a solution to this issue, I have been on the committee and, apart from the commission, trying to talk to colleagues from the Croatian Representatives Club and delegates of the Serbian people. Unfortunately, my insistence went the wrong way, to a kind of fiction and false information even to the public in an incorrect way. But first of all, I want to say a few very important facts. So, any more serious debates, I want to say a few very important facts. Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations with the Republic of Croatia are extremely important. First because the Republic is one of the two neighbouring countries of BiH. Secondly, because there are great reasons for historical, political and historical, cultural, national and any other meaning. Because of the fact that in BiH one of the three constituent nations i.e. Hrvat with all constitutional rights also have a special interest in their countrymen in the Republic of Croatia and finally because of the fact that in the past relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, in particular in recent years there has been a period of better understanding, better quality co-operation and that we are ultimately committed to co-operation, both through a number of regional initiatives, bilateral international, or interregional agreements, and in a number of other areas of life. All this points to a clear conclusion that Bosnia and Herzegovina has its serious interests in serious, correct, friendly co-operation with the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, my personal position or my personal political position was very clear, and I want to say it here quite publicly, so that some winemakers don't invent what I think about this or that question. So, I believe that relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina are extremely important and the Republic of Croatia, that the Republic of Croatia is extremely important both its neighbour and partner in bilateral and international relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and, for these very reasons, I believe that issues that may be controversial must be removed by talks, not by any kind of pressure or any kind of overvote. This question, after all, cannot be a question of who should outvote or persuasion, because it is a matter that is possible to resolve, in a completely different way. So, if we go back to the content of the question, I understand that the intensity of this contract was to be ensured, we were notified and formally at the Commission's session to ensure in this year 800, and in the third year, from this year around two and a half thousand additional incomes, i.e. income for about 2,500 families in the territory of the Federation or Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that sense, if the tendency was to secure additional receipts, then it had to go in that direction, for a better understanding, it should be the essence of this contract, which is in the Federal Law on Contingencies of Fighters called the Agreement, so it's very strange why it got the name of the Treaty here, and in the Law on the issue of the Fighter Federal, which is, in fact, a contract with the Federal, which is actually a kind of one of the reasons why this contract is signed and signed. It's called a contract. It is clear to lawyers that the agreement and contract do not have the same legal meaning and that the contract has a more binding legal meaning and of course this document could not bear the name of the contract. Even if his contents were fully accepted, he was to bear the name of an agreement, for a number of reasons I wouldn't talk about this time. What is important is that, therefore, it was necessary to resolve the issue of a number of members of the Croatian National HVO, and I quote this contract this time. Is that settled? The contract itself in Article 1(1) of point (7) and (8) states that members of the HVO,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5670	/doesn't understand the discussion/
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5671	You can't, sir. I'm talking. You can't stop me while I'm talking. You're very incorrect, Mr. Filipović. You can't say until I'm done. When I'm done, let me know.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5672	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5673	Well, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5674	I'm sorry. I have to react. It's a drastic violation of our rules of procedure. So, I've been listening now, and yet we're back to the question. Take Rules of Procedure, take Article 134(3). The Bosniak People's Club has legally stated that this contract is harmful and destructive by vital national interests. He writes here – when he receives a statement, the president informs the House and interrupts the debate on the issue of the statement. So there's no argument. But look at this. After that, a debate on the statement is opened. So you had to interrupt the contract debate and open a question about the dispute over the statement. And then it doesn't stand there. I beg to be respected by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5675	I'm sorry, Mr Filipović, I really thought it would be. Mr. Filipović is right. I thought there was going to be a discussion about a statement, I thought, I expected there to be a discussion about a statement, so our custom is a little bit to get away from the subject, but please, please. Mr Filipović, I personally accept your objection. You're right. So please tell me that the Bosniak People's Club here has highlighted whether or not he has announced his vital interest. Please. He filed a statement on the protection of vital interest, and that statement is whether we can put it to debate under the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you about it. Here, anyone, please Hasan, just a little bit. Here, will one of the representatives of the Croatian People's Club read this statement. Please. Please. Objection. Excuse me. Objection to a statement. Excuse me. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5676	In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Representatives' Club in the House of Peoples opposes the statement of the Bosniak People's Representatives Club that the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia is in cooperation with the rights of war victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the HVO and members of their families, so the contract which is the subject, in accordance with Article 135(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples will make this complaint in writing within the time limit that is foreseen, and we will do so, and now we have made this statement, so I remind you of all five.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5677	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. I don't think after this, this objection makes any more sense to discuss. There is. Excellent, sir. About the statement. Mr. Hasan. Hasan was before you. You want to get along very well, Hasane. Mr. Spajić, the president of the club. On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5678	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. Right here in front of the club, I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5679	Please. Look, he can't, but a man is looking and the right of a club president is to ask for it. We can say here until, the break is up to 1 and 15. It suits you, but it goes to the mosque. Thank you very much. So break to 13 and 15. Shall we begin, gentlemen? [[PAUZA]] Thank you very much, go on, excuse me. I'm sorry, lapus. I ask the gentlemen of the Croatian People's Club to explain this break, or should they say something we had a break for? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5680	So I think the Hrvat were surprised with this way so far and means the withdrawal of vital national interest by the Bosniak people and we wanted to simply consult. It's our decision to move on with the work and.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5681	Thank you very much. So, it is now by procedure that we need to choose a committee to coordinate to try to find a solution to the problem that has arisen, so please representatives of the Bosniak people yes, in this order we will give their candidate. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5682	On behalf of the Bosniak Club Dr. Halid the Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5683	Thank you very much. So on behalf of the Bosniak Club Halid Genjac. On behalf of the Croatian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5684	On behalf of the Croatian People's Club, Mr Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5685	Mr. Velimir Jukić. On behalf of the Serbian People's Club?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5686	Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5687	Mr. Vinko Radovanović. Thank you. Please put that on, you don't have to vote. So you don't have to vote. All right. Thank you very much. Here's the secretary coming out now, so explain what the job is in this situation right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5688	Now according to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH Article 4.3f, this joint commission, already the proposed candidates, should be convened and they must meet within 5 days. The deadline for them to meet is Tuesday. Now it's a matter of commission. Within five days. Please. _____(?) Workdays, I guess. Well, it says within five days. Now that's the day, it's from today when it counts.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5690	I think if they say anything, it doesn't bother you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5691	Sunday doesn't count, but now I'm saying it's a commission matter when it's due to meet. They need to call the commission within five days. What date is that? 47
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5692	Look, as far as I know, you can call a commission within five days, but you don't have to negotiate within five days. Just for the commission to meet, she can. But I don't think this is some big problem that can't be arranged very quickly. I think there's a solution. Thank you very much, so now we understand. Tuesday, the latest commission should meet and beg, because it should be prepared and sent to the Constitutional Court, it should be written there. There's a procedure that needs to be completed and I'm asking you to respect this deadline. Thank you very much. Any new suggestions? Thank you very much. Here's the deal. Let's move on. 16th item of the agenda, Add.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this framework contract. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić, go ahead. Here we have the ministry gentlemen, if there's anything to explain, they're here. Thank you for coming. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5693	Therefore, at its 46th session, the Commission considered this contract, the Loan Framework Agreement and proposed that it be supported as such ratification. Eventually, we can discuss the elements of the contract and everything else later. It's a common formula when it comes to the development bank's loans. So more elements are dealing with the need to meet certain conditions, deadlines. The amount or price of the loan is common, so it is the most favourable that can be obtained. There are very clear obligations between Bosnia and Herzegovina that are such that we must respect them. If we don't respect the deadlines, we'll have a chance to pay for the pens. The assessment is by the Commission, as well as by whoever took part in the preparation of this, that this is a useful and necessary loan and that it needs to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5694	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Is anyone else picking up? Niko. Thank you very much. Please, let's go to the vote. Please vote now. So unanimously, the House of Peoples accepted ratification of the Treaty on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank. Thank you very much. 48 17th item of the agenda Ad.17. Giving consent to ratification of the UN Anti-Corruption Convention You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Convention. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? Thank you. Hassan, please, if you do, I know you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5695	I have to inform you, this is one of the most common conventions we've signed so far, very serious. So very serious, very detailed, very precise and will entail great activity by Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is very important that we ratify it in order to have formal arguments that Bosnia and Herzegovina is doing what is possible and how much it takes to fight corruption. This is one under quotes of a newer UN convention. So it involves measures that are quite modern and quite modern. It involves extremely extensive measures and very clear solutions in a number of issues that concern the way corruption is defined. On the other hand, we have come to a position with this Convention, likely to address a number of issues of objections, internal debates, inter-party, such or such about whether Bosnia and Herzegovina has elements to fight corruption, whether it has legal basis, whether it does enough, etc. By ratifying this Convention, which the Commission has proposed to implement, we definitely, therefore, must ratify the obligations that follow from it, we are definitely ensuring that the full ambience so that we are bound internationally, and I assume that the competent authorities will, within a reasonable time, analyse whether it is necessary to implement this Convention which is a permanent obligation for Bosnia and Herzegovina to develop any existing laws and sublaws in order to be able to implement this Convention. Therefore, in this context, the Commission proposes to the House to give its consent to the ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5696	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5697	Thank you, Mr. President, I would, of course, like to give a few words of support to the definition of our commission and express the satisfaction that we are finally in this situation and to settle among those 140 countries that have signed and ratified this Convention. It certainly represents a significant number of commitments compared to Bosnia and Herzegovina. My colleague Šiljegović is a witness that we are recently familiar with the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been designated by the EU as the country, which is located 49th headquarters for the fight against corruption in this part of Europe, such as Bucharest, has been designated as the headquarters of the fight against human trafficking, etc. And that axicenter of theirs. I asked the envoy's question a few months ago and expected an answer to tell me if there was, where it was and apparently no answer. Niko one knows anything about it. Those in Brussels have the information that we have here an institution that is not only ours, but which is for the entire region of Southeast Europe, but apparently for its work too few people, so we MPs know or better say they don't know. I must say that this is for Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment, of which Bosnia and Herzegovina will benefit first and foremost. I would like to remind you that according to the latest research, Transparent International, Bosnia and Herzegovina is 96 months away from the opportunity, so it shares 96 places and that, according to the index of less than 3, so 2.9, all countries that have an index of less than 3, because from 0 to 10 criteria, are treated as countries where corruption is not controlled. Therefore, we need and obligation not only to ratify this Convention, but to build appropriate institutions and mechanisms, and in order to implement the provisions of this Convention in practice is, otherwise, to ratify it does not mean much, except on paper. Of course, I got up first of all to warn and to, in fact, strengthen that part of my predecessor's speech, a respected colleague, Čengić, who warned that this convention is making very clear obligations, which we will not be able to avoid if we want to legitimise ourselves as a serious state and a credible candidate for European and Euro-Atlantic integration. In this regard, therefore, some proposals that have come to date, in terms of institutional terms, deserve to be in both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in a different way, after we do this now, all of us individually commit ourselves. I support the approval to ratify this Convention and, I hope, through the implementation of, above all, the installation of certain regulations, will make the construction of certain institutions in the BiH state through its contribution as a member of the UN to the overall fight against corruption in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5698	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Čengić. I think everything here is said that the Minister of Security should explain to us how long we've been in this business that Mr. Limov was talking about, if we've done anything here, and he doesn't have to do it now, he can do it at some next session. Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5699	So when it comes to corruption, there's only one case, it's worrying and very bad. So no one can stand in defense of any condition in which at least one case of corruption can be opened. However, I think that different international organisations, especially these NGOs, have different methodologies and standards, so perhaps we need to be a little careful about these methodologies whether it is in that place or in that place of BiH. It's bad that there's corruption anywhere. So it's just for itself more than enough. There is no dilemma that, here, sitting here and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, etc., finance, there is no doubt that we cannot ratify this Convention 50 and turn it into plain paper, because there are mechanisms as the international community checks whether we are implementing the Convention. So we're going to have to write them a report, we're going to give them data, etc. And when nothing else, then when they write the report they have to look for information, they have to ask where it came from, they have to answer questions. So it's crucial that we ratify the convention. From that moment on, it becomes alive and it begins with all the order of the institution to force them to do so and we will definitely come in a better position to fight corruption, which, unfortunately, is not a privilege for the poor or the rich, or the large or small countries, it is simply what it is and should be fought with it. I, however, want to take the opportunity to say the following. Based on the information we received at the last session of our commission from the foreign ministry, or Mr. Perković, who is the assistant minister, he informed us that three months ago, there were about 140 foreign ministers, I repeat, 140 international agreements waiting for ratification. He said that in the ministry, meanwhile, they made a single dynamic, made a schedule, how these international agreements will activate, push them at different levels of ratification, so that by the end of next month, by the end of the 4th month, we could somehow clear the largest number of those international agreements, contracts and conventions, which are now due to ratification. And, for that reason, if you look at this today's agenda, 11 actual international agreements, contracts, conventions, etc. All 11 points are, exactly that and indeed, proof that now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers, has taken this issue more seriously and more actively, and I hope that we will really come into a situation that is ready for ratification as soon as possible and thus improve our position towards the international community, on the one hand, and on the other hand to speed up the implementation of obligations, which, in fact, stand as our obligations and when it comes to ratification and when it comes to the implementation of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5700	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5701	I certainly support giving consent to ratify this convention, but I cannot say at least two sentences. I may agree with most of Mr. Lim, but in the end I would disagree with what he says does not mean much to us giving consent to ratify this convention. I still think it means a lot. Maybe it doesn't mean in one context, if all those who have so far been in power of corruption and crime and all that's happening is absolutely connected to power. Maybe if the institutions don't have something more significant to change, then in that sense this sentence of yours will not mean much. So, in the institutions of government, something must change and something must finally start to work in the fight against corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5702	Thank you, Mr. Đoko. I think we've exhausted the discussion. I put on vote consent to ratifying the UN Convention against Corruption. 51 Please vote now. Thank you very much. So we unanimously adopted this convention. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratification of the Cybercrime Convention Report of the competent commission you have received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Convention. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Čengić. So this is about the European Convention on Cybercrime. She's relatively new. It was only signed in 2001. When I say so, it's a relatively new convention and it's wet for a number of reasons. We, as a society, have determined that we will go into development in modernization that we will go towards Europe, that we will go towards the developed world and that this is possible through the establishment of an information society. In order to have an information society, we must also edit it. This Convention shall be one of the documents, which shall ensure that such behaviour is regulated in the information society and in the exchange of information. In this regard, the Commission has made a proposal to the House to ratify itself, but I, let me give the opportunity to warn once again the competent authorities, which prepare materials and translate to focus more seriously on materials. Mr. Jukić has rightly objected today when it comes to an agreement with Turkey, to even mention Bosnia as a state in one place. Of course, both Turkey and Bosnia and Herzegovina know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is called Bosnia and Herzegovina and there is no doubt that both sides wanted to change the name of the country on purpose, but it is obviously someone with a policy of printing, typing, etc. He made that mistake and dropped the word Herzegovina. It's inadmissible in the official nature documents. However, as our translators seem to translate the document, and this document in this text should become a mandatory document that also has legal meaning. So there are also criminal measures behind him, sanctions. In Chapter I, section 1 criminal material law, and it's a very criminal material right, look what it says. Title one. Infractions against the confidentiality of the integrity and disposability of computer data and systems. I assure you that at this time, in any legal dictionary, any of these three languages in BiH do not have a word of disposability. I've been looking for it in these words of foreign language, I've even looked for some English dictionaries, it's almost impossible to find a basis for it. So someone translated it, translated it and translated it like this. Imagine now that this becomes a convention, and on this basis it becomes a law and when judges of BiH begin to interpret it, because this criminal material law, when they start to interpret it when they come into a situation so they don't understand the concept of punishment or impunity or another example, don't laugh, I read the text. It says, like this, in point 2 in terms of paragraph I above, sub b. A person who, in the sense of the above paragraph I. child pornography implies everything, every pornographic material, which visually shows. Under b) a person who appears as a minor who engages in an explicit sexual relationship. Is there really no other concept in our languages than explicit? These are just some extreme examples, as someone translates official documents. This is the document, this is the material, this needs to be ratified. This, when ratified becomes an international obligation, becomes domestic law and domestic law. I call once again on the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly to pay serious attention to and translation and lecturing of documents that stand for ratification and which we adopt. 52 Let me finish. The Commission proposes to give consent to the ratification of this agreement. To give consent, noting that the Council of Ministers has a little look at that translation and bring it into line and normalize it. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5704	Of course, very short. With the support of the Commission's views, I would like to say that the implementation or implementation of this Convention involves an information society. The last time we set up a session in the Budget for this year, for this segment zero. I hope it will never be again, because implementation of the content of this Convention will require that we work on information, because otherwise, we can't answer what we're going to do if we don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5705	Thank you very much. Are there any more debaters? Please vote on ratification of the Cybercrime Convention. Vote now. Thank you very much, and we unanimously adopted this. Thank you very much. Ad.19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol on Cybercrime, in connection with the punishment of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, made through computer systems, you have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has given consent to ratification. I'm opening the raps. Is there a President of the Commission? Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5706	The Commission has also considered this protocol that goes with the Convention and, of course, when we adopt the Convention, it is natural that we should give consent to the Protocol, because it defines the way and technique of the application of the Convention. I'd take the chance just to say it. Based on the information received from the Council of Ministers' representatives at the Commission. The Council of Ministers, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as party to the agreement will have certain reserves and restrictions. This Protocol provides that any State may determine whether it places reserves on the application of this law, from the point of view of time, from the point of view of a particular territory or from the point of view of certain solutions, or obligations imposed on this. We have received information from representatives of the Council of Ministers that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have certain restrictions here. I would like to inform the House that the Commission has suggested to the Council of Ministers that, in the future, when it proposes such international documents and when it knows in advance that it will have reserves, the Commission will present these reserves as well. Not because the commission has no confidence in the Council of Ministers, but it is about the following. The bottom line is that each home 53 individually gives consent to this document, which includes our reserves. We now need to give consent to this protocol. We're going to have reserves that we don't have right now. I call on the House of Peoples to agree on this protocol, on behalf of the Commission, and to accept what the Council of Ministers will later propose and write in writing as reserves and forward to a competent address to the Council of Europe. However, I once again take the opportunity to call on the Council of Ministers to, whenever they know that they will have reservations that, indeed, at least generally defines and presents to the competent commission, so that the committee in charge will have an idea of this, and therefore also a competent home that discusses it and gives consent. Let me get this straight. This time we propose to give consent to the ratification of this protocol.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5707	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. No one's answering for a word anymore. I'm putting the ratification of this protocol to the vote. Please vote now. Thank you very much. We unanimously adopted this protocol. Ad.20. Giving consent to the ratification of the development co-operation agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. The President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5708	As regards this Agreement, the Commission proposed to the House that it give its consent to ratification. However, the Commission also warned representatives of the Council of Ministers, and I am obliged to inform you that this agreement was signed in Ljubljana on 8 September 2003. It's March 10th... of the year. So we've been celebrating for two and a half years. Please, in order to understand what this is all about, Article 1 of this Agreement says, the objective of development and co-operation is to list them from a. to n.e. to help improve social policy, promote economic development and grant in scholarships. The agreement shall enter into force after ratification, unlike some agreements which enter into force after the signing and may later be ratified. In other words, we two and a half years are losing our chance to use, let's just say some scholarships that could have been obtained from Slovenia, which can be extremely important to our graduates, graduates and possibly others. So the question of the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, or someone, I don't know where in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't know where, it can be checked that it took two years and six months to ratify an agreement that is really important. You know what our scale of economic co-operation, cultural co-operation is. We and Slovenia also have co-operation around the European Union on accession, etc. Let me just compare it. The recently discussed contract with Croatia was signed on 23 December 2005. From 23 December 2005 to 54 February 2006, in less than 60 days, the contract has reached ratification of the Commission and the House in less than 60 days, and this agreement with Slovenia in two and a half years. Does that mean that we're maligningly accessing cases, depending on which state it is? I know that Croatia is very important to us, but relations with Slovenia are important. I know it's not politics, it's bureaucracy. It is not some kind of strategy of BH policy towards Croatia, i.e. towards Slovenia, but rather one inadmissible, therefore, inadmissible bureaucracy or the relationship of certain institutions and individuals in institutions. I think it's high time to ask the question of their responsibility. I argue that the delay in this ratification has caused significant losses for BiH, absolutely and I conclude, I propose to the House on behalf of the Commission to give consent finally to the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5709	Thank you, Hasan. Here, I am putting final consent to the ratification of the Development Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to vote. Please vote now. Thank you very much, unanimously. Ad.21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement Project to strengthen the health sector between BiH and the Cengic International Development Association, President of the Commission, have you here?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5710	Very short. The Commission considered this agreement on two occasions and after clear, large and precise information we received from the representatives of the proposings of this agreement with the Bosnianhercegovic side and the participants in the negotiations, the Commission agreed and proposed to give the House consent to the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-02-21-0.u5711	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Hasan Čengić. Do we have any further discussions on this? We don't. I'm putting it to a vote. Please vote now. So we unanimously adopted, gave this consent to ratify this agreement. My colleagues, I thank you and I pray you, I just want you to, from somewhere at the end of this month, somewhere around 26, 27 and 28 we should have an opportunity, so, 27 we're going to have the 55th session of this house. You'll get a call, but this is just so you know you're planning your time for that session. Thank you very much. I wish you good luck. Thank you for your cooperation. You've been great. The session is closed at 14.05 p.m.
