ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8523	Dear MPs, esteemed guests, I am opening the first, constitutional session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The College of the House of Representatives of the so far convened this session in accordance with Article 2, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Article 3 of the same article found that the session was chaired by the oldest member of parliament to convene the new member as temporary chairman until the chairman of the House was elected. I was pleased to accept the duties of the interim chairman. For those of you who don't know me, my name is Ekrem Ajanović. Allow me, as interim chairman, to welcome all the newly elected MPs. I warmly congratulate you on your election of this responsible duty and wish you successful work in the next four-year term. I am honored to welcome the distinguished guests of our session: members of the Presidency of Mr Željko Komšić, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the High Representative of the International Community, Mr Schwarz-Švarc-šiling, the Deputy Head of the OSCE Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, their Excellency of Ambassadors of Croatia, Hungary, Austria, Italy, Turkey, Greece, Romania, Slovakia, Denmark and Norway, Deputy Ambassador of the United Kingdom, representatives of the United States Embassy, representatives of other international organisations attending the meetings, representatives of NGOs. I would also like to welcome representatives of the electronic information funds, certainly special. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Before moving to the session agenda, allow me to read the list of Members elected to this high House in the general elections held on 01 October 2006. I would remind you that, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 42 MPs are elected to this House and from the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 28 and from the territory of Republika Srpska 14 MPs. The list is in alphabetical order, and according to the decision of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2 So, at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they were selected from the Federation: Party of Democratic Action – Halid Genjac, Bakir Izetbegović, Sead Jamakosmanović, Bajazit Jašarević, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Edin Mušić, Husein Nanić and Šefik Džaferović; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Ekrem Ajanović, Azra Alajbegović, Sadik-Sefer Halilović, Martin Raguž, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Vahid Ivanković, Dolić Lijanović; From the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Denis Bećirević, Selim Bešlagić, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Mirjana VrankićDragan Croatian Coalition of the Krišto-HDZ – Borjana Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina of Croatia. From Republika Srpska: Alliance of Independent Social Democrats Milorad Dodik – Slavko Jovičić-Jovičić-Slavuj, Drago Kalabić, Milica Marković, Prodanović Snježana Rajilić, Milorad Živković, Nikola Špirić; Party SDS Serbian Democratic Party – Savo Erić, Momčilo Novaković, Mirko Okolić; Party of Democratic Progress of Republika Srpska – Branko Dokić; DNS Democratic People's Union – Hadži Jovan Mitrović; SDA Party of Democratic Action – Sadik Ahmetović; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Remzija Kadrić. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again I congratulate you on your choice and I want a lot of success in your work, for this Parliament to be remembered for its success. With a call for this session, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have received a copy of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives so that, in preparation for this session, you will be familiar with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the Constitutional Session. You also received the instructions of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, after which, before this session, we should receive 3 assurances of the mandate and sign a declaration of acceptance or refusal of mandate. I hope everyone's accepted. We got the materials already in the parliamentary procedure this morning. We also received a publication in which the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina was printed. It's my duty to ask you to fill out the MP's files if you haven't done it by now. Please fill out those forms and hand over the service. Thank you for your cooperation. These were the basic remarks that I was obliged to make in the introduction. Now we move on to establishing the agenda of the constitutive session of this high house. It is my duty to introduce you to the meeting in preparation for the meeting of the College of Representatives of the House of Representatives, which has been convened by representatives of political parties who have received MPs in previous general elections. At that meeting, the agenda of the constitutive session established in accordance with Articles 3, 4 and 6 of Article 2 shall be agreed. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. You, therefore, received the invitation to the session, the following agenda: 1. Making a solemn statement to the MPs, 2. Election of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives, 3. The election of the members of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that such a agenda is required under the said provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think we can change it, but since Mr Špirić, Nikola Špirić, has applied for the discussion before the session,
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8525	After the first point
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8526	And after the first act, well, thank you very much. I suggest we move right to point one, Ad.1. Making a solemn declaration of the elected Members I'll read you a part of the provision of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which reads, shall assume the duty of joint giving and individual signing of the 4 solemn statements. You have received the text of the solemn statement from the House service and I ask you that after giving the solemn statement everyone sign and return the service. I pray we all make a solemn statement together.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8528	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I am entrusted with, respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Thank you. Sign your statements and return to the service. Let's hear it from the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by the act of giving a solemn statement, we've obtained conditions to carry out our parliamentary duty. Moving to the point, to the second point of the agenda, which is, Ad2. Election of the Speaker's House of Representatives, First Deputy Chairman and Second Vice-President of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8529	You, ladies and gentlemen, have received a copy of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and have been able to get acquainted with his provisions. However, allow me to remind you of the provisions of Article 79 before you start proposing candidates. Rules of Procedure which regulates decision-making in this House. Article 79 reads: under one - Decisions in the House are made by a majority of the votes of the MPs present and voting. The abstentions are listed in the quorum and are not added to the votes that are in favour, or against. MPs are making efforts to include at least 1/3 MPs from the territory of each entity, unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Rules of Procedure. If the MP does not declare himself against, or abstention when voting, and he is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he is considered abstention. In all cases, the number of votes selected shall be at least equal to the quorum prescribed in Article 67, point 2. Rules of Procedure unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution of BiH and these Rules of Procedure. And the provision of Article 67, paragraph 2, stipulates that the quorum consists of 22 MPs, provided that at least 1/3 of the MPs from each entity are present, unless the Constitution of BiH and this Rules of Procedure is set out differently. These were basic remarks regarding the decision-making in the House. According to the Service report, I agree that the session is attended by 32 members, or MPs, 39, forgive me, please, 39 MPs. From Republika Srpska 12, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 27. 5 The absence was justified by the apostles: Vahid Hećo, Milorad Živković, Branko Dokić. So I'm realizing that we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to work on the second item of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Špirić, since he asked to speak before.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8530	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, representatives of the international community headed by the High Representative, it is my pleasure, distinguished media, to welcome you all, to the colleagues and colleagues who have passed a solemn statement, elected in this conference, to congratulate you. What I want to say on behalf of the SNSD is this, and for the next four years, to get an effective work of Parliament and the Council of Ministers to follow this work, we propose that after taking a solemn statement, we take a break, until the leaders of political parties, or political parties, come out with the names of those people who will run the home and parliamentary majority that will be made by the Council of Ministers, so that for four years, we get effective authority that will be responsible for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The way to approach the election today, therefore, and that variant is possible, we will not participate. We may get one structure in the Dom presidency and get another parliamentary structure in the Council of Ministers, which is not in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I beg my colleagues, I have spoken to the representatives of the political parties, to understand this SNSD call. He is in the interest of, therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. We are a political party which, in any case, will take the right to decide and participate in this, but so that today's leadership is not simply a set of different possible mathematical combinations, to leave and to say to one working conclusion that the leaders of the political parties are obliged by Wednesday to go out with parties that will make up the parliamentary majority in the Council of Ministers and in the chairmanship of the House. I ask you, therefore, to adopt this working conclusion and to take a break on this and say, we move, therefore, within the constitutional deadline, we will not violate the Constitution and that the continuation of the session at this point will be scheduled for Thursday at the same time at 11 o'clock. It wouldn't be good if we opened a political debate about this today, even though it doesn't bother me. I therefore state the position of the SNSD and the request of the SNSD, therefore, that on this we take a break by Thursday, and by working conclusion we commit the leaders of the political parties to inform the public which political parties are making up the parliamentary majority in the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8531	Since it would not be fair if only Mr Špirić came out, does any of the other political parties have something to say, if there is no... 6 Mr. Džaferović reports, followed by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8532	We learned from the place to talk, uh, in Parliament, us sitting here, I can do it at the pay phone. Whatever you want. In any case, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members, I congratulate you all on the election to this high house, the honourable member of the Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, representatives of the state administration, representatives of the international community, ambassadors of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr High Representative, on behalf of the SDA, I would like to make the following statement. On 8.11. this year, we held a consulting meeting with representatives of political parties and agreed on today's session and said exactly what will be on the agenda and I must express my disappointment with today's knowledge that there are political parties who, behold, after 14 days are not ready to do this part of the work at a constitutive session. I think the question of the election of members of the College and this commission should not be, of course, but it should not necessarily be closely linked to the election of the executive authority and should not mind that we approach it today. I repeat, 52 days after the elections, almost 30 days since the Election Commission published election results in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This country needs a power that is legitimate in the last elections and as soon as possible. The state is at a standstill when reforms are at stake, and I'm advocating my colleagues and colleagues to establish this home as soon as possible and to start working. The SDA is ready today to participate in all points of the agenda, it is ready to make its contribution to the realization of point 2, so, the choice of leadership of this home, but if we are to come to a position here not to declare the agenda, but I think we could come to such a position, then we have no other option than to say that we should hurry up with these talks and hold this session as soon as possible. I'm glad to see what Mr. Špirić was talking about that he's only left for two days. So we need power as soon as possible. This is the position of the SDA Parliament Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8533	Please. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8534	Of course, I'll go from where we've been practicing. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, as regards the BiH Party MPs, this statement, namely this proposal by Mr Špirić, on behalf of the SNSD if we understand it as a wish for this parliament to work more efficiently and more quickly on reforms, we welcome, of course, the unification of the authorities, etc. 7 But this was all we could hear today, the overlaps, that we would not call this Parliament together and be rational. So, you could have told us all this two days ago, gentlemen, we don't have an agreement, etc. We have some demands, not bring us here 42 and after, uh, these formal things come out and say they haven't created conditions. Of course, you certainly, Mr Špirić certainly has an argument, a strong argument behind him and he certainly, along with the other MPs today would have made any kind of choice impossible. Therefore, we are simply brought before the final act, and we will not have the opportunity to choose, or to do this by point 2, and we express regret. We also came here today absolutely ready to propose, to determine candidates, we even had agreements that I don't want to talk about right now, they're famous. But here's what's there. I'm expressing another regret about what we're hearing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8535	Ambassador Novaković called.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8536	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, first of all, I would like to congratulate all MPs in the election and secondly to say that, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, we are not particularly interested in these political games that are happening these days and the previous days and are likely to happen in the next period. What we think is unserious in the whole story is that today's session is scheduled, and that this thing is not agreed or done, and it's not possible that it's only in these two days that it's regretted all of this. If that's the case, then it seems even more unserious to me since, indeed, out of all these days, here are two days to establish power. Of course, responsibility stands on those who have gained the trust of the citizens and who will exercise authority over the next four years. We will not support this working conclusion because we do not think we have a mandate to order or ask the president of political parties to negotiate. I guess they should do it naturally, and I guess that mandate was given to them by the citizens, not us here. So for this reason, we will not support this conclusion and we appreciate that today this is enough warning for political party representatives to sit at the table and give this issue much more attention than they have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8537	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to talk to? If there's no one here, I'm taking a ten-minute break and I'm asking all the representatives of all the clubs to agree on a follow-up session. [[PAUZA]] We'll go to work, let me, please, a little quiet. Before we start working, let me say hello to the ambassador. Before we go to work, allow me to welcome the Excellency, the ambassador of Germany who attended this session, which, the service did not record, and that failure to remove. We apologize for your failure.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8539	The dispatcher of the Republic of China's business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8540	Then the dispatcher of the Republic of China's business.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8541	We also didn't have an announcement.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8542	Since we had no notice of theirs, that is why there has been a failure. Before I conclude today's work on this session, I would say that, in a conversation with the representatives of the clubs, individually, we have come to some conclusion that I am going to conclude, and I personally expect from the motion to postpone the session, to take the promises that have been made and the attitudes that it has made here, on, at the pay phone so that the session can continue as soon as possible and in a better manner. After they answer, uh, for word's sake, let's not deny it, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8543	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to, you know, take your word for it because from your step, it can be concluded that the people you talked to are in agreement with doing this this way. We, me, we, however you like, are not in agreement with that. I just want it to be known. You have a majority that's agreed to delay for two days, but don't, please, think, that here, that everyone is unanimous in that we're ready to work, to keep working, we're ready to call the party heads if you need them not to delay, this is unnecessary, for the next three days. So SDP, ready to participate in the talks to stay here as long as it takes. Let's call whoever it takes, but we're not ready to be accomplices to the decision to extend this in two or three days. We will respect the majority's decision. We'll be here tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, whenever, uh, a deal is reached. So, just, Mr. Ajanović, I wanted to clarify a little inaccuracy. So we think that this delay is unnecessary, but we will respect, we are ready and we are ready to vote, to have candidates, and to support some, and to have no candidates, we are all ready to establish the legislative authority in this country as soon as possible, which we can change in two days. And that. And that was done here. So we can do anything, but there's no problem. We respect the will of the majority. 9 We shall be at every meeting of Parliament, whether it is appointed and agreed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There, that's all, Mr. Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8544	Okay, thank you very much, Dr. Lagumdžija. By having a conversation with Spiric, among other things, with Špirić, I got the impression that he had nothing to do with postponing that, uh, they didn't make a precise statement, as they now plead. I respect his opinion. Since most of the party club representatives have declared that we are not making any conclusion, we are simply to interrupt today's session. I'm interrupting today's session and calling for her follow-up on Thursday 24. 11. 2006 at 1100 hours. Please attend that session to bring this assembly to an end. On Thursday 24th, as far as I'm concerned, it's Thursday, no, no, I'm sorry. Monday.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8545	Today's the 20th, Tuesday's the 20th, Wednesday's the 20th, the 20th.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8546	Excuse me, twenty-three. I counted it wrong. Thursday, twenty-three at eleven o'clock. The session was completed at 1230 hours. 10 ... Ambassadors, esteemed guests, continue the work of the Constitutional Session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Continuing the session, members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the presidents of the political parties represented in the House, ambassadors and representatives of international organisations accredited in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of NGOs. I warmly welcome all present guests and thank you for having responded to our call. I also welcome representatives of public information funds. I agree that a total of 35 MPs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 22, from Republika Srpska 13. That's how we found that there's a quorum, that we're making judicial decisions. I remind you that we interrupted the session at the second item of the agenda, so at this session we have two remaining points of the adopted agenda, which is 1. Selection of the chairperson, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives, 2. The election of members of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please prepare a proposal from the members of this committee, each parliamentary party has one member. Before we move on to the realization of the agenda, we have one question to resolve. The first part of the session was not attended by MPs Milorad Živković, Branko Dokić and Vahid Hećo, so they did not give a solemn statement. In order for these MPs to participate in the work, they should make solemn statements. I call upon the Members of the Parliament to make a solemn statement and thus assume parliamentary rights and obligations. Please, let's do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8548	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I am entrusted with, respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and advocate human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 11 Thank you, gentlemen. You took an oath. You'll sign the papers and we'll keep working. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. Second Point of the Constitutional Session, Ad.2. Selection of the chairperson, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8549	You have previously received provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the establishment of the House of Representatives, and in the first part of the session you have received the entire text of the Rules of Procedure. I hope you've met the Rules of Procedure. However, allow me to remind you of those provisions concerning the election of the chairman and his deputies as well as the provisions governing the decision-making of the House. First, I'll read you the provisions of Article 79. A Rules of Procedure which regulates the decision-making of this House. Article 79 reads: "Decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of the MPs present and voting. The abstentions are listed in the quorum and are not added to the votes that are in favour, or against. MPs are making efforts to include at least one-third of the members of the territory of each entity, unless otherwise provided for by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Rules of Procedure. 2. If the MP does not declare himself against, against or abstention when voting, and he is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he is considered abstention. 3. In all cases, the number of votes counted must be at least equal to the quorum laid down in Article 67(2) of the Rules of Procedure, unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and these Rules of Procedure. The provision of Article 67, paragraph 2, stipulates that the quorum consists of 22 MPs, provided that at least one third of the MPs from each entity are present, unless the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Rules of Procedure are set out differently." Now follow the provisions relating to the election of the chairman, first and second vice-president of this House. Item 1, Article 4, reads: "After MPs make a statement, the House elects among its members one Srbin, one Bošnjak and one Hrvat to perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the dom. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina." 12 I would like to remind you that he is now in charge of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a member of the Serbian people's presidency, which took office on 6 November last year. We are now aware that Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency has appointed Bosnia and Herzegovina's chairman council of ministers, appointed the chairman of the Bosnian and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers from the Serb people. Therefore, we now need to elect candidates from Bosniak, first deputy and presidential candidate from the Serbian and second vice-presidents of the Croatian people, as the chairman of the House of Representatives. Item 2, Rule 4, Rules of Procedure, reads: "Every MP has the right to propose candidates for these duties if there are more candidates for one place. The order of candidates will be determined by drawing, once a list of candidates is established for each place, the vote is cast. Item 3, Article 4. - in the first round of voting, the first votes for the chairman, then the first vice-president and the second vice-president of the House, and in the second round in reverse order. Item 4, Article 4. – if of several candidates for one place, no candidate has received the required majority or received the same number of votes, the vote is repeated for two candidates who received the most or the same number of votes. Paragraph 5, Article 4, reads - the election decision, the majority of the votes cast by those present and voting, with representatives of the political parties represented in the House in the event of a consensus, which means that the majority of those present voted, but not the entity majority, agreeing to be held by representatives of the political parties represented in the House, and if the consensus fails, the vote is repeated as a whole. Item 6, Article 4, reads – if no candidate has received the required majority, the vote is repeated as a whole." I hope we understand this procedure. If there's any misunderstanding, you can ask for an explanation. Does anyone need an explanation? As far as I can tell, there isn't. Let's move on. Can we move on to proposing candidates? Please, who's the first to answer the word? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović called.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8550	Dear members of the presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. Let me propose, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, which, by the way, is supported and agreed by six other political parties, on the formation of a parliamentary majority, for the chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose Mr. Beriz Belkić. In an explanation, I'll be free to brief you on some of the basic elements in his biography. Mr. Belkić was born in Sarajevo on 8 September 1946. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Sarajevo. The father of a child is also married. From 1969 to 13 1992, he was employed by the GP Bosnia, then the House of Young Skenderies, then the Republic Conference of the Alliance of Socialist Youth of BiH and Ilidz Municipality. From 1992 to 1996, he served as secretary of Ilidža opština and vice-president of the Ilidz municipality's Executive Board. From 1996 to 1998, he served as minister of labour, social policy, displaced persons and refugees in the Canton of Sarajevo government, and in the first post-war elections, he was elected MP at the Canton Sarajevo Assembly. From December 1998 to February 2001, he served as Prime Minister Canton Sarajevo. In November's elections, he was elected to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2000. On 1 April 2001, he was appointed a member of the BiH presidency, and he was chairman of the BiH presidency from April to November 2002. Between 2002 and 2006, he was also the chairman of the Party for BiH Party Club at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. In the October 2006 general elections, he was elected MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with over 40,000 votes. A member of the Balkan Political Club, president of the Srebrenica Potocari Foundation's Executive Board, the memorial and mesars, president of the Bosnia Sports Society Assembly. In the BiH Party, he serves as vice president of the Party for BiH and is a member of the presidency and Executive Commission of the Party for BiH. I will ask the services to share the elements of Mr Belkić's biography with all MPs, guests, media, interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8551	Thank you very much, Ambassador. Now he answered the word Jozo Križanović, so the lady or the lady, I don't know the name, so we'll try to get to know each other because it's the first session.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, I am not going to make any proposals today for members of the College of our House, but I wanted to begin by pointing out the need to abide by the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House. I would like to remind you that on 20.11. we had the first constitutional session of this House, and due to a certain unprepared session, the session has been postponed for 3 days. And it was supposed to continue on 23.11. As you know, we have received a letter from the interim chairman saying that the session of this House is being postponed indefinitely. As you know, the SDP Representatives Club has also come to the scheduled session, because according to our rules of procedure, cancelling the session and the appointment of a new session term is not in the capacity and jurisdiction of the interim chairman. We, formally taking a void, had not to say, but then unconstitutional and disbanded House, the Parliamentary House of BiH. This may seem very formal, but I want to point out the seriousness that at the very beginning, we are very seriously sticking to the prescribed procedures. Procedures are very important to achieve democracy, because we have no other means. 14 In that sense, I do not wish to further complicate matters, but I point to a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure and the need for stricter adherence to our Rules of Procedure. Of course, Mr. Chairman, this is not personal to you, but to one situation that we have created by irresponsibility, that we have not responded to an appointment on 23.11. when the only decision to further postpone this House's session could have been made by the House, not by an individual, who is in the capacity of the interim chairman, even the second regular session. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8553	I would like to thank Ambassador Joza Križanović, whom I highly appreciate. I acted on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The responsibilities of the chairman were not necessary until the House was established, correctly prescribed, and until the assembly majority was created, it was not necessary to call the House and spend the money, and I did not really check whether the SDP MPs who attended those meetings had been raising the daily. And that, if necessary, and I can check it out, and then at the follow-up session I'll tell you. I don't want to discuss matters that aren't important right now because the SDP gentlemen are trying to turn this thing around, so we don't get this session we're starting. But since he has a replica, according to the Rules of Procedure, here, I give Zlatko Lagumdžija the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8554	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really thought that you, with God's help, would stop. But obviously none of that. That's, to say the least, rude thing you've done right now. I want the public to know. No SDP logs have been raised. The other thing is, by not doing anything, you kept getting paid or you started getting paid. Since you have declared that Bog alone is above you, I am pleased that you have retarded, that you have now mentioned the Constitution which, by the way, you have violated, as well as the Rules of Procedure. For your information and for the sake of the public, no one in the SDP has raised any diaries, and I have the right to say that to Mr Ajanović. I've been an MP in this House for 10 years, elected directly from the people, and I've never been on the payroll. And it's very rude of you to start a session that you should have ended even more politely than you started.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8555	Thank you, but you're not going to teach me jurisdiction, and first of all, you're saying certain things that are incorrect, because I don't receive any salary from the House of Representatives. If it's very interesting to you and you want to know, I didn't even sign up for a professional. So don't talk nonsense. If you want to discuss it, then let's just leave it at the end of the session, and we'll discuss it as much as you want. Here you go, ma'am, please, your name, since I haven't met you yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8556	On behalf of the concerted stance of 7 political parties, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats Club, as a candidate for the first deputy chairman, suggests Mr. Dr. Milorad Živković. I, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, will briefly introduce you to Mr. Živković's biography, and in the break you will also receive his biography, so that you can get acquainted with the future first deputy chairman. Namely, Mr. Živković was born 02.05.1963 in Mrkonjic City. He's married, father of two underage children and by nationality is a Srbin. He graduated from the primary and secondary school in Mrkonjic City and graduated from the Medical Faculty in Tuzla in 1988. Since 1989 he has lived in Doboj, where he has worked in various medical institutions, including the Doboj House of Health and then at St. Luke's General Hospital, and since 1997 he has specialized in gynecology and obstetrics, which he is now engaged in. Between 1999 and 2003, he served as National Coordinator for Reproductive Health in Republika Srpska, and later became a member of the Democratic Council of Republika Srpska, whose member he is today. Mr. Živković is a master of medical science and is doing a doctoral dissertation. Now I'm going to say something briefly about his political work. Mr. Živković began to deal with politics in 1997, when he entered the Party of Independent Social Democrats, the current Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, and is actively involved in the 2000-year policy, when he became an MP at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska where he was an MP for 2 years. After that, in the 2002 General Elections, he became an MP for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, where he spent 4 years. Mr Živković was a member of various committees in this House, and I will only say that he was the Vice-President of the Foreign Affairs Commission and a member of the Commission on Transport and Communications and the Commission on European Integration. He served as chairman of the BiH Population and Development Group. I also want to get to know the public that Mr. Živković won about 25,000 votes in the previous elections. What I can say as a man for him, that he has managed the principles of justice, democracy and humanism in his work so far, and is inclined to compromise policy by respecting the specific features of the environment and the specific political scene and life in general in BiH. I ask Parliament to support Mr. Živković for the first chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8557	Thank you to Mrs. Snježana White Rajilić. Now I've memorized your name. Who's picking up the word? Mr. Novković, I think, Novaković, forgive Momčilo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8558	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, as known to the public, the Serbian Democratic Party will act as an opposition party in this term and for this reason we do not have a candidate for one of the positions in the College. For the same reason or one reason why we will not support this composition of the College is precisely what we will act as an opposition. Others, as we have seen many oaths in the preceding period, that some of the parties will not together make up the congregation’s majority. We think that these parties, which they obviously want to make the majority of the assembly, are not a guarantee that this House and this Parliament will do the work that is right in front of it. For one more reason or another reason why we will not support this composition of the College. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8559	Thank you very much, Ambassador. Is anyone still coming forward for discussion and proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8560	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I welcome you all and I wish to wish you successful work in 2007, both on a personal and business basis, of course. Pursuant to Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof, The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club of BiH, I highlight the candidacy for the second deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, in the person of The candidateship is supported by six other political parties that exist in this House of Representatives. About the candidate, Mr. Niki Lozančić, I'm giving the following information. He was born on September 3, 1957 in Kaknja. By interest, he is a lawyer, a member of the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH. So far, he has acted on the following duties: the duties of councilors and the chairman of the Municipal Council, then the representatives of the Cantonal Assembly, the envoys at the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH and the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH. Also, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and in the past term, the BiH Federation president's office. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8561	Thank you very much, Mrs. Krišto. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? As there are no more suggestions, I'll conclude the discussion. ...no need. That's why we're crossing, since it's all one candidate at a time, so we'll go straight to the vote. So why don't you call me when I suggest if there's a discussion. Go ahead, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8562	Mr. Ajanović, I didn't answer for the discussion at all. I just checked in for a business intervention. So that's another thing. A colleague, after proposing Mr. Živković, said there would be a break. During her suggestion, you said, never mind, you see a stenogram and you'll see that you mentioned a break but there's no problem. Wait a minute, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8563	Please just let the gentleman finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8564	I thought you had already agreed, since you agreed, that now you'd be taking a break because you should share us these biographies. Namely, counterpart Hadžiahmetović said she had saved her biography and that she would be shared with us. ...biographies and I would like to ask that we share our candidate's biographies so that we can discuss the candidates before we possibly come forward. So, I'd like to ask you, business, to deliver these biographies to us, and the SDP MPs' club is asking for a half-hour break so that you can look at the biographies and prepare for a discussion on candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8565	Excuse me, since the clubs haven't, uh, delivered yet, so there are no clubs since this is a constitutive session. It's yours, so, personal opinion, there's more, please let this session end, and then talk as much as you want and wherever you want. Here you go, sir. He answered the word Mr. Belkić, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8566	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament. I was just about to say that the clubs weren't formed, how they're going to be looking for a break now. When we form clubs, when we finish this first part and we know who the presidents and vice presidents of clubs are, who on behalf of the club is looking for. So now he can't even take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8567	Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8568	I, of course, all of you... [[Common discussion]] Thank you. So, I also welcome you. I would ask Mr. Lagumdžija to explain the direction of business intervention, or what business 18 interventions are, I think what was wrong with the procedure to tell us where the business gap is. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8570	Here's the other one, not Mr. Lagumdžija, you didn't answer the word, and what the MP asked you to do is another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8571	I welcome all present, apparently the SDP Club was still unformed, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, come here to obstruct. It's clear to me, they blame all of us here. You've said well why call the meetings, make the costs if there's no parliamentary majority, now has it. I understand Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's vanity and I think he is the most responsible and the only one responsible for why three months has not been established power in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He's a political loser, and he's tried every way he can get into power. By way of part of the international community, through certain political parties, repeated nonstop in the media, we have a program, the platform will go into power only with those parties that accept our programme, the platform. They don't have any platforms, the platform is at any cost to enter power, I'm not finished, sir. I have that fact. When election results were published, the same evening Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija called all the cantonal members, rather sit with everyone and everyone, just go to power. The same night he called me from the SDP Bihac, called me Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, sit down, don't choose the goal, don't choose the means. So he obviously cares about being in power the most. The people determine who will rule, the people have spoken theirs. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8572	Thank you very much, Ambassador. After all these discussions were concluded, the conclusion of the discussion, I will consider them irrelevant. We move on, to the further work of the new House of Representatives, and move on to the vote, first for the candidates in the presidential order we have established. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the charts, given that we cannot use an electronic voting system because of objective circumstances. There are thirty-nine seats in the hall, and here at the table of the chair of the three seats, so it was not possible to set identification cards for each MP. I note once again, the abstentioned MPs count as quorum, but not those who vote. I'm voting, so maybe I can explain, for/against and you have this at your table, you have the cards and you can read it. Maybe we should read it to someone in the SDP, but it doesn't really matter. I konstatirati, I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Beriz Belkić as chairman of the House of Representatives. 19 Who's in? I'm asking the service to count the votes. Okay, thank you, who's against? Okay, thank you, who's restrained? Okay, thank you, I'd like to ask the service report to deliver the results of the vote. Of those present, 29 voted yes, against the vote of 8 and were abstentions4. I konstatuj Beriz Belkić has been elected chairman or perhaps we should go to the procedure to finish by the end. Okay, thank you very much. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Živković as the first deputy chairman. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much, please bring the service, let's see who it is, what is the result of the vote for Mr. Živković. For Mr. Živković it voted 30, against the vote 6 and the abstention 6, I find Mr. Živković has received the necessary majority. We're going to vote for the second deputy chairman, that's Mr. Ivo Lozančič. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8573	No Niko's Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8574	Excuse me, I'm sorry, Niko Lozančić. Niko Lozančić, my neighbor, but I changed this one, there are two, uh, Lozančić who are my neighbors. Who's for Nik Lozančić? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you, I'm asking the service to bring in the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8575	Now we're going to go to the entities and declare the second deputy, then the first. It's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8576	Mr. Niko Lozančić, got 30 for, 9 against and 3 abstentions. Now we're moving on to an entity vote. So we're going from, uh, we're going to go after the Rules of Procedure, from the other chairman. I ask the representatives who have been elected to Republika Srpska. Who's for Nik Lozančić to be second chair? Yes, for second deputy chairman Nik Lozančić, who is from Republika Srpska? Okay. Who's against it? Okay, please, we're leaving the Federation now. Who is for Nik Lozančić, for the second chairman of the dom, in fact, the second vice chairman of the House. For Mr. Nik Lozančić of the Federation voted 18, from Republika Srpska 10, it means that, that Niko Lozančić received a sufficient number of votes and I declare that he was elected second vice chairman of the dom. We are now going to the entity vote for Mr. Živković. First from the Federation. Who's in favour of selecting Mr. Živković as First Chairman, Vice-President of the House? Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8577	It's not necessary, just who's in favour, from the Federation and the Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8578	Okay. Enough votes, so we can move on. Let's go now and have the service deliver me just a number. We need more from, the vote is entity, from Republika Srpska. Who's to choose Mr. Živković as the first deputy chairman? Thank you very much. I find that the Federation voted 21st, Republika Srpska 10th, thus giving Mr. Živković enough votes to be elected the first deputy chairman of this House. We are passing the vote for the chairman of Parliament's House of Representatives, Mr Beriz Belkić. Who is from Republika Srpska for Mr. Belkić? Thank you very much. 21 Who is of the Federation for Mr. Belkic, to be the first chairman? Mr Belkić, from Federation 20, from Republika Srpska 10, received a majority enough to be declared president, chairman, in fact, of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. I congratulate the elected officials. [[APLAuz]] It's my duty, as interim chairman, to complete. I'm thanking you. I thank you, before I call these, for the patience of the MPs, who are, who want to make this country right. I also thank those who, politicians, who have addressed various, uh, criticisms towards me, thinking that they can do something, in essence, congratulating the gentlemen who have been elected and calling on the new leadership of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina to continue to take their seats, and I am giving a break of ten minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8580	Ladies and gentlemen, honored members of the Presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, your Excellency, journalists, guests, I welcome you all once again on behalf of the newly elected College of the House of Representatives and thank you, of course, for your presence. I also thank Mr. Ekrem Ajanović, who, according to our assessment, has successfully done his part of the work, therefore, the first part of the constitutive session. I also use the opportunity and I believe that I share your opinion to thank the previous College of this House, therefore, Mr Špirić, Raguž and Mr Džaferović, who are also with us today, because they have been re-elected, on a successful basis, in our assessment over the past four years. And as for us, I have agreed with my colleagues to express my gratitude on behalf of the three of us for the trust that you have shown us and to say that we are going to make every effort and effort to lead this house in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the Constitution of this country, and, of course, try to create an atmosphere of understanding, an atmosphere in which we will respect each other and through joint activity come to the best possible solutions for people in this country. Here, that's when it comes to some introduction, and now let's get back to the agenda of the constitutive session. We have a point three ahead of us, and that's Ad.3. Election of members of the Commission to prepare elections of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers 22 You have received appropriate copies of the Rules of Procedure explaining the character and essence of this committee, as well as the way it is chosen and its function. I think there is no need to repeat it, except to say that it is the Commission that is established on the basis of the need set out in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it consists, in our opinion, of an analysis of 12, it will consist of 12 members for the simple reason that each club of Members gives one member to that commission and each individual MP, if there is no club, enters that commission. Of course, of course. We have so far received written proposals from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is Dr. Azra Alajbegović, SNSD, is Mr. Lazar Prodanović, Croatian Community, Mr. Vinko Zorić and by automation, excuse me, we also received Mr. Mirko Okolić and SDS and Mr. Halid Genjac from the SDA. Automatism into this commission, therefore, from the fact that one MP, he automatically enters. These are, I can conclude, Mr. Rifat Dolić, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, Mr. Sefer Halilović, Branko Dokić and Hadži Jovan Mitrović. So it's about the Democratic People's Community, the People's Party working for the better, the Bosnian-Herzegovic Patriot Party, the Party of Democratic Progress and the Democratic People's Union giving these people to this committee. So obviously we're missing a SDP candidate, we're missing a HDZ candidate. Of course, I'm opening up the possibility that directly, according to the Rules of Procedure, here on site you can propose candidates for this commission. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8582	On behalf of the HDZ Club of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to propose Mr Dragan Vrankić as a member of the commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8583	Thank you very much. Here's how we got another candidate for this committee. Here's Mr. Ambassador Križanović. Here you go, Jozo.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8584	In front of the SDP, we propose Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8585	Thank you very much. Yes, it is, Dr. President. Zlatko Lagumdžija. So, in this way, we have formed a proposal of the Commission's composition for the preparation of the Council of Ministers and I ask that we move on, therefore, to the vote. Who is the Commission's proposed composition for this? I hope we don't have to repeat it. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8586	As soon as Beriz made the unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8587	As soon as you're proposed, it's a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8588	I knew there was a secret connection.
ParlaMint-BA_2006-11-20-0.u8589	Of course. Did you count it? Thank you. Who's against it? Here, to help people, it's obviously nobody's against it, or I don't see it well. So, no one's against it. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. So we could conclude that we have both the necessary entity majority and there's no need to vote on entities. Right, Mr. Lagumdžija? Here we don't vote on entities. So I can conclude that we have chosen, unanimously practicalally, the Council of Ministers' Election Commission: in front of SDA Mr Halid Genjac, ahead of the Party for BiH Mrs Azra Alajbegović, in front of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats Mr Lazar Prodanović, in front of SDP Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, in front of SDS Mirko Okolić, ahead of HDZ Croatian Coalition HNZ Dragan Vrankić and Croatian Community Vinko Zorić, in front of DNZ Mr. Rifat Dolić, People's Party working to improve Mr. Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, in front of the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party Mr. Sefer Halilović, the Party of Democratic Progress RS Mr. Branko Dokić and DNS Hadži Jovan Mitrović. So, practically, we got this commission and this way we exhausted, exhausted the agenda of the constitutive session. I ask only a little patience, so this commission should meet immediately after this session, establish, select between the president and the two deputies. It will dobići from the Bureau decisions on the appointment of mandates and the necessary documentation provided for by law. And I ask the Commission, therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law, to carry out their part of the work, to carry out appropriate checks and report to this House of Representatives, or to propose confirmation or non-confirmation of the decision, the Bureau's decision. It's about the commitment to this commission. 24 And one more thing, we have not scheduled another session but indicated, we have indicated the possibility of an appointment and I am now informing you that, as chairman, on the basis of Article 62, point 3, therefore, by our own decision, estimating the urgency and urgency of some of the things that are ahead of us, you know that this, the House of Representatives, I am informing you that the second session of the House of Representatives will be held today starting in one hour. The agenda at that session will be determined in accordance with the possibility that the Rules of Procedure, this one, allows at the sitting itself, but here I am hinting to you, which is obviously known to all of you, that the first item of the agenda will be to confirm the decision of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers. We will try in the break, we will try in the break, therefore I am asking those MPs, groups of MPs from certain political parties, who have not formed committees to do in this, in this, time period between the two sessions, in order to possibly open the process of establishing the committees necessary for the functioning of this House of Representatives, at least to establish a Constitutional Commission, the Finance and Budget Commission, in order to create, uh, assumptions for work. Here I am suggesting, of course, a session of the colleges in the narrow composition and, depending on whether clubs will be established, a session of the Colleges in the expanded composition. Also, I am taking the opportunity, I have been told that a kind of refreshment has been prepared for Members, I call on everyone, of course, not just employees, guests, journalists, etc., and I invite you to meet me on the ground floor of this building. Here I thank you and conclude the work of the constitutional session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 11:20 p.m.
